                                       E1460 v2

Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
    for the construction of the new
     Animal Health Laboratories

                (Final Draft)




                 Prepared by

          Prof. As.Dr. Ferdinand Bego

             Ing. Etleva Bodinaku




                 July 2009


                                           Page | 1

Table of content

Executive Summary

1.Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
   1.1 IDA/IBRD Safeguards Policy
   1.2 Albanian Legislation
   1.2.1 Construction waste administration
   1.2.2 Air protection from pollution
   1.2.3 Noise
   1.2.4 Hazardous waste administration

2.Description of the Proposed Project
    2.1 General layout
    2.2 Preconstrucion and construction works
    2.3 Adjacent communities/industries
    2.4 Roads

3. Description of the Environment (baseline data)
   3.1 Physical environment
       3.1.1Regional geologyandsoils
       3.1.2 Seismicity
       3.1.3 Surface water
       3.1.4 Climate
       3.1.5 Air Quality
       3.1.6Noiselevels
   3.2Biological environment
   3.3 Inhabited settlements nearby the project site and infrastructure
   3.4 Cultural and natural inheritage

4. Environmental Impacts
       4.1 Short description on the EIA methodology
       4.2 Potential Impacts

5. Analysis of Alternatives

6. Environmental Management Plan

7. Public consultations and disclosure



                                                                           Page | 2

Executive Summary

The purpose of the assignment outlined by the terms of reference is to carry out an environmental
impact assessment for the construction of the new Animal Health Laboratories within the territory
of the Institute of Food Safety and Veterinary (IFSV), in Tirana.

The Government of Albania has received funding from the World Bank and from the
Government of Japan for an Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and
Response Project (AIP), which aims to strengthen the country's capacity to prevent the spread of
avian influenza among poultry, to prevent the transmission of avian influenza from birds to other
animals and humans, and to prepare for a potential pandemic of Avian Influenza transmissible
between humans.

In the framework of internal institutional re-arrangements with a view to strengthen laboratory
diagnostic capacity in the animal health sector, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer
Protection (MAFCP) of Albania has decided to relocate the Animal Health Laboratory (Virology
and Bacteriology) to a new dedicated building which will be constructed within the site of the
IFSV. On the basis of the preliminary report prepared by the international consultant hired by the
project, the World Bank has agreed, in principle, with the MAFCP and the IFSV to finance a
new facility comprising a basement (minimum 200 m2 to maximum 640 m2) for utilities and
storage space, a ground floor of 640 m2 for laboratory space and 1st floor of 300 m2 for office
space.

The Albania Avian Influenza Project (AIP) has been assigned World Bank environmental
category B, since it involves moderate environmental impacts that can be managed during
implementation of the project. The current Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has foreseen
only minor reconstruction works. For that reason an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is
needed for the construction of the new building.

The EIA is to ensure that the proposed investments (construction of new building) implemented
through the AI Project comply with existing environmental protection laws, regulations and
standards in Albania as well as with the World Bank's Operation Policies and Practices; and will
not have a lasting adverse impact on humans and the natural environment. The EIA report aims (i)
to determine the environmental baseline condition at construction site to extent possible; (ii) assess
the choice of the site and environmental impact of the construction; (iii) identify cost related
mitigation measures and monitoring activities and update them in current EMP.

The EIA is done in accordance with Albanian and World Bank's environmental policies. A
number of laws, bylaws and regulations have been consulted and described in this EIA report, such
as: Law no 8934 dated 5.9.2002 "On environmental protection" and its amendments; Law no
8990 dated 23.01.2003 "For the environmental impact assessment" and its amendments;
Guidance no 6 date 27.12. 2006 "On the approval of the methodology for preliminary assessment
of the negative environmental impacts"; Guidance no. 2 date 21. 05. 2007 "On the approval of
the lists of the activities with environmental impacts, rules and procedures of approving
environmental authorization and consent from REAs".



                                                                                              Page | 3

The consultant has also consulted the World Bank policies and guidelines, such as World Bank
Operational Policy 4.01: Environmental Assessment, World Bank Pollution and Abatement
Handbook (1998) and Disclosure Handbook (December, 2002).

The environmental impacts during construction phase are expected to be of manageable,
temporary and of local low impact as they are related to the general construction activities. These
most commonly include: a) Dust and noise due to excavation, demolition and construction; b)
Management of demolition and construction/solid wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil,
lubricants, drainage etc., and c) Movement/traffic disturbance. However this EIA and updated
EMP has considered the laboratory operation phase and its potential impact, keeping in mind
possible hazardous or dangerous waste.


The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) makes an overall project assessment and its effects
toward environment, during its preconstruction, construction and operation phases of the new
animal health laboratories, while the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) proposes
remediation measures in order to reduce the negative impacts on the environment as well as the
monitoring of these measures throughout out project implementation.

Environmental impacts during the preconstruction phase are mainly concentrated in the working
area and might be a result of preparation works (like demolition of the existing buildings, and
waste removal). These activities might cause local air pollution, noise disturbance and small
pollution of the soil and water. In this regard certain measures have been proposed in order to
reduce these impacts, like the follow up of all procedures foreseen by Regulation no.1 date
15.03.2004 "For the prevention of the environmental negative impacts of the construction
activity".

During the construction phase, in addition to the effects /impacts foreseen above, other issues of
concern are linked with land degradation, creation of waste leftover from construction materials,
local air pollution, leakages of polluted waters, as well as with requirements toward safety at
work. To avoid, when possible, and/or mitigate these effects a set of measures has been
proposed, like fulfillment of all the normatives foreseen for construction work, waste
management, reduction of air pollution and noise. Excavated soil shall be deposited in a certain
area, and/or used for any rehabilitation work nearby.

The operation phase is expected to generate the most significant impacts on the environment,
such as the generation of hazardous and infectious waste, pollution of water discharged, the
potential for air pollution and risk of transmission of infections. A number of mitigation
measures are proposed to minimize these effects.

Hazardous wastes produced during laboratory operation will be managed in accordance with
legislation in force and best practices. Hazardous Waste must be collected in appropriate
containers, constructed in that manner to enable flow of liquids waste and profusion of solid
waste. Solid waste, depending on their type, will be placed separately in bags and dishes of
different colors. Provided that in Albania there are no landfills for hazardous waste, their
incineration is recommended as best option for their treatment.



                                                                                            Page | 4

The use of reagents and chemicals for diagnostic research is considered as a potential for
pollution of laboratory water. Hence, the waste waters of the laboratory will be collected, treated
and monitored before it is discharged in municipality sewerage system.

Air pollution is a critical issue to be mitigated and monitored. In this regard, there is the need for
undertaking all measures that ensure compatibility with procedures and instructions related to
similar type of works, i.e. Instructions from World Health Organization (WHO). The new
laboratory should be equipped with all bio-safety facilities and have a ventilation system that
fulfills standards of bio-safety.




1.0 Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework

1.1 IDA/IBRD Safeguards Policy

The World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable and thus improve
decision making (OP 4.01, January 1999). EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and type of
analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the proposed project.
EA evaluates a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of influence;
examines project alternatives; identifies ways of improving project selection, sitting, planning,
design, and implementation by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts; and includes the process of mitigating
and managing adverse environmental impacts throughout project implementation. The Bank
favours preventive measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures, whenever feasible.

Although the whole Avian Influenza project of Albania has been considered as "B" category, the
construction itself of the new animal laboratories may be considered as "C" category , because
the environmental impacts during construction phase are expected to be of manageable,
temporary and of local impact as they are related to the general construction activities. But,
during the operational phase of the new animal labs, the environmental impacts and concerns
deserve more attention as hazardous animal and laboratory waste should be managed properly.
Thus, during the operational phase of the new animal laboratories the project may fall again
under category "B".



1.2 Albanian Legislation

Albania has made good efforts during the last years in preparing a quite comprehensive
legislative framework. According to the Constitution every citizen in Albania is entitled to "an
ecologically healthy environment for present and future generations" as well as "access to
information on the state of the environment". The laws regarding environmental protection take
into consideration requirements of international agreements and with special consideration of the
EU directives as planed in the SAA agreement of Albanian Government and European

                                                                                               Page | 5

Commission. However, the challenge is not so much in the legislation, which seems to be in
place, but in its implementation and enforcement. This is due to insufficient work in producing
by laws (regulations, decisions and other normative acts), inadequate and poorly qualified and
equipped local environmental structures and inspections (Regional Environmental Agencies),
low performance of public administration, general public and decision makers. Ministry of
Environment, Forestry and Water Administration (MoEFWA) assisted from 12 Regional
Agencies all over the country has the main role in the environmental protection.

The preparation of the EIA report for the proposed project of the construction of the new Animal
Health Laboratory (AHL) within the territory of the Institute of Food Safety and Veterinary
(IFSV) complies with respective Albanian legislation as listed and described below.
Furthermore, the preparation and implementation of Environmental Management Plan meet with
the requirements of several laws in order to tackle the significant negative impacts identified
during EIA process.

The relevant legislation for the preparation of the EIA report includes:
     Law no.8934 dated 5.9.2002 "On environmental protection" and its amendments
     Law no.8990 dated 23.01.2003 "For the environmental impact assessment" and its
        amendments
     Guidance no.6 dated 27.12. 2006 "On the approval of the methodology for preliminary
        assessment of the negative environmental impacts"
     Guidance no. 2 dated 21. 05. 2007 "On the approval of the lists of the activities with
        environmental impacts, rules and procedures of approving environmental authorization
        and consent from REAs"

The Law on Environmental Protection (1993, amended in 1998, 2002 and 2008) - Forms the
basis for environmental protection and management in Albania. The law addresses the protection
of the natural values and the improvement of the environmental quality through prevention and
reduction of pollution, sustainable use of the natural resources, environmental monitoring and
norms, and cooperation between stakeholders and the public as well. The amendments of this
law in 2008 have also made a reference with IPPC directive aiming to establish a new standard
in the environmental protection in Albania.

The Law of the Environmental Impact Assessment (2003) - This law defines the activities or
projects, which require environmental assessment; procedures for obtaining environmental
permission (including assessment of impact on environment) and procedures regarding review of
permits application. The environmental permission issued on the base of the EIA process results
determines the conditions to operate the activity in order to guarantee the protection of the
environment for negative impacts.
Under Albanian law Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) are grouped in two
environmental categories (Annex 1 and 2), which are approximately equivalent to Bank
environmental categories A and B. According the EIA law, Annex 1 projects are obliged to
submit a profound EIA process meanwhile Annex 2 projects require a summary EIA process that
implies a simplified process and report.
Both annexes of the EIA law makes a clear reference with treatment of animal wastes but the
construction activity is not stated clearly in these annexes.


                                                                                          Page | 6

Guidance no. 6 dated 27. 12. 2006 "On the approval of the methodology for preliminary
assessment of the negative environmental impacts" - This guidance sets the basis of an initial
screening of a project with possible environmental impacts and categorization of the project if its
Annex I, annex II (with reference on the EIA law) or is listed in Guidance no 2 dated 21.05.2007,
as project with minor impacts. The guidance is based on the requirements of the Directive
85/337/ "On the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the
environment as amended by Directive 97/11/EC and by Directive 2003/35/EC" and aims to start
an correct and early evaluation of the project form the environmental point of view. The
guidance is compiled as a checklist with several questions to be answered for the project and in
the end all the answers serve as guiding points to classify the project category and set up relevant
ToR for the EIA process.
Based on the outputs of this Guidance the proposed project has to undergo a simplified EIA
process and report, is to be approved with environmental authorization issued from REA/Tirana.
(Further elaborated in the paragraph below of Guidance no.6 date 21.5.2007)

Guidance no 2 dated 21.05.2007 "For the approval of the lists of the activities with
environmental impacts, applications, rules and procedures of issuing authorization or consent
from the regional environmental agencies' - The construction activity of the new Animal Health
Laboratories within the territory of the Institute of Food Safety and Veterinary (IFSV) is related
with the requirements of this guidance. This guidance is approved from the Minister of EFWA to
delegate environmental competencies in local level to REAs and sets the rules and procedures for
approving local activities with minor negative impacts on the environment. The guidance contains
two annexes similar to EIA law where are listed the project competence of REAs.
The project of constructing of the new Animal Health Laboratories within the territory of the
Institute of Food Safety and Veterinary (IFSV) is foreseen as activity with minor impacts and
listed in point 29 of the Annex I of this guidance. (Construction of the buildings with surface
more than 1000 m2)

After preparation of the necessary documentation required when applying for environmental
permit the proposed project for the construction will have to be presented in Regional
Environmental Agency of Tirana for approval with environmental authorization. The
documentation and procedures for applying for environmental authorization is described in the
Guidance no 2 dated 21.05.2007 "For the approval of the lists of the activities with environmental
impacts, applications, rules and procedures of issuing authorization or consent from the regional
environmental agencies". The environmental authorization will set the condition for the
protection of the environment from negative impacts in each phase of the project.

The preparation of the EMP takes into consideration the requirements of several normative acts
for the management of the overall construction operation. The current environmental legislation
linked with the proposed project is listed below.
     Law No. 9010 date 13. 02. 2003 "On the environmental administration of solid waste"
     Regulation no.1 date 15.03. 2004 "For the prevention of the environmental negative
        impacts of the construction activity" (joint act of the Minister of Environment and Public
        Works)
     Law no. 8897 date 16. 05. 2002 "On the protection of air from pollution"
     DCM no. 803, dt.4.12.2003 "For the approval of air quality norms"


                                                                                             Page | 7

     Law no. 9108 date 17. 07. 2003 "On chemical substances and preparations"
     Guidance no.8 date 27.11.2007 "Allowed noise norms in the environment"
     Guidance no. 65 date 24.12.2004 "Allowed values of noise and gases emission from the
        vehicles and the control methods"
     Law no. 9537, dated 18.05.2006 "On administration of hazardous wastes"
     Regulation no.6 date 30.11.2007 "For the administration of the hospital waste"
     DCM no.99 18.02.2005 "Albanian waste catalogue"

1.2.1 Construction waste administration
The purpose of Law no. 9010 dated 13. 02. 2003 "On the environmental administration of solid
waste" is to ensure the protection of the environment and human health from pollution and
damage resulting from solid waste through institution of their environmental treatment at every
stage: creation, collection, separation, protection, transportation, recycling, processing and
elimination leading to waste reduction and the reduction of their hazardous and dangerous
impact.

Since the construction of the of the new Animal Health Laboratories within the territory of the
Institute of Food Safety and Veterinary (IFSV) and operation will generate certain type of wastes
the implementation authority have to plan the administration according the legislation
requirements. The existing situation of the administrating the construction waste in Tirana region
is not clear but until now due to lack of a special landfill the waste is dumped at the Sharra
urban wastes landfill and used to cover urban wastes dumped at the site.

During the construction phase solid waste will be generated from the digging of the foundations
and preparation of the site. This waste is considered as construction wastes and should be
administrated according the provisions of the article 12 of the treatment of the construction
wastes has to be done with land filling or reusing. For the wastes of the proposed project it
seems possible to apply both methods by land filling in Sharra or dumping at the closed stone
quarries located to Dajti mountain at about 15 km distance from the project site.

Practical and relevant measures are described in Regulation no.1 date 15.03.2004 "For the
prevention of the environmental negative impacts of the construction activity" and will be
addressed in the EMP.

1.2.2 Air protection from pollution
Albanian Law on Protection of Air from Pollution (2002) - The purpose of this Law is to
guarantee the right of citizens to clean air; to protect human health, fauna, flora and the natural
and cultural values of the Albanian environment from the pollution of the air. This Law regulates
quality control norms of the living environment air (see Decision of the Council of Ministers No.
435 dated 12. 09. 2002 "On approval of the norms of discharges in the air in the Republic of
Albania").
The norms and standards of air quality to be met are described at DCM no. 803, dt.4.12.2003
"For the approval of air quality norms".

1.2.3 Noise



                                                                                           Page | 8

Meanwhile the noise standards are subject of Guidance no.8 date 27.11.2007 "Allowed noise
norms in the environment" and Guidance no. 65 date 24.12.2004 "Allowed values of noise and
gases emission from the vehicles and the control methods".
Further relevant measures in respect of this act will be detailed in the EMP.

1.2.4 Hazardous waste administration
Hazardous waste will be produced during the functioning of the new Animal Health Laboratory.
Following the requirements of the law the hazardous wastes require a special treatment and have
to be incinerated. After incineration the ash must contain less the 5% total carbon and then can
be dumped at the Sharra urban waste landfill. According the above mentioned acts the producer
of the wastes is responsible for environmental administration of the hazardous waste. In case that
the producer can not treat the wastes properly, a specialized company must be contracted as
private incinerator etc. The producer has to register and classify the wastes according the
Albanian waste catalogue.

Detailed procedures and rules for environmental administration of the hazardous hospital wastes
are prescribed in the Regulation no.6 date 30.11.2007 "For the administration of the hospital
waste" and further relevant measures will be detailed at the EMP.



2. Description of the Proposed Project

The Construction Works include the Building of a new Animal Health Laboratory. Since the
Building will be situated inside the IFSV complex (fig. 1) the construction works shall be
carried out in two phases:
Preconstruction Phase 1:      Demolition of existing buidlings, removal of the waste and site
preparation for new building construction, and
Construction Phase 2:         New building construction of the Animal Health Laboratories,
including two blocks:
     The first block, laboratory testing facilities, a one store 21 by 34 meters building. Total
       Usable area: 640 sq m. Total Built area: 714 sq m.
     Second block a two stores building, offices and doctor' s rooms: Total Built area: 400 sq
       m

The site is positioned in North-East of city of Tirana. Study area: 0.6 Ha
Construction site area approx. = 2360 sq m (32x74 m)
Construction site area has a rectangular shape inclination slope 2.6%




                                                                                           Page | 9

Fig. 1. Location of the site where new animal laboratory will be constructed




                                                                                Page | 10

Fig. 2. Aerial photo over the study area and construction site




                                                                  Page | 11

                                                                  Buildings
                                                                  to be
                                                                  demolished




Photos from the site where the new laboratory will be constructed




                                                                     Page | 12

2.1 General layout

Meticulously following the design objectives, standards and the laboratories layout scheme
provided by the client the building will be developed in two blocks connected by the main staff
entrance, a double height glazed lobby.

The Building is positioned following the North-South axe, in the longitudinal direction of the
site. Public entrance is located in the eastern limit of the site. In this way, public access becomes
this way in the eastern limit of the IFSV Complex property. Doctors and staff entrance is
positioned in West side of the building and intermediate road that distributes all the other
buildings.




                                                                                              Page | 13

This solution achieve the independency of staff entrance and public entrance. The car entrance,
by ramp, (in the solution with the parking underground) or the supply entrance is situated in the
north. This solution utilize the natural inclination of the site slope, permitting less space for the
ramp.

The building layout fits the site requirements as a integral part of the whole complex leaving
space for green recreation area and future development.

The first block, laboratory testing facilities, a one store 21 by 34 meters building. Total Usable
area: 640 sq m. Total Built area: 714 sq m

Second block a two stores building, offices and doctor' s rooms: Total Built area: 400 sq m.
Materials that will be used achieve reduction of contamination. Finishing of walls and floors will
be in Rubber Flooring, achieving smooth surfaces, concave joints between the floor, walls.




Lab. Rooms Division will be in aluminum partition panels with fix parts, transparent or opaque,
and doors achieving all the standard requirements for this specially purpose. Notopenable
doubleglazing windows will be used for natural lightning of internal areas. Ceilings, should have
a smooth surface with flush lighting. Insulation will be provided using External Insulating
Façade System.



                                                                                            Page | 14

In BL2 laboratories, scientists work with certain infectious agents or materials that are produced
by living organisms and are associated with human disease. These infectious agents or materials
are acquired through autoinoculation, ingestion, and/or by mucous membrane exposure. The
design of BL2 laboratories is similar to that of regular laboratory rooms. They must respond to
functional needs but should also conform to the BL2 containment requirements. They must have,
as a primary barrier, class I or II biosafety cabinets or other physical containment devices used
for operations that can cause splashes or aerosols of infectious materials. The personnel entering
a BL2 laboratory may have to use personnel protective devices such as laboratory coats, gloves,
and shields to protect their faces. As a secondary barrier, they must have an open benchtop sink
as well as access to an autoclave.

The separation of two blocks, as a main feature of the concept, create the condition necessary for
a safe work environment and is in compliance with the "no way back" principle.

One key feature of the whole design process is creating a low energy consumption and naturally
lit space, resulting in low maintenance cost and environmentally friendly building.


2.2 Preconstrucion and construction works

The scope of the main physical work include the total manufacturing, transport and delivery to
the site, installation, execution, completion, testing and handing over of the works, such as: all
civil, architectural and structural works for the project, including clean-up of demolition
waste (two concrete structures), site preparation, soil excavation and removal, fire escape, new
building construction with electrical installation works and emergency power generator; HVAC
and Mechanical installation; water supply, drainage and sewage works, road pavement and
parking, green areas and vegetation, for full completion.

This facility shall be designed, manufactured, and installed under the latest International rules,
instructions, standards, orders, regulations and guidelines, under the technical supervision of the
employers' representative.



2.3 Adjacent communities/industries

The project site is surrounded by new human settlements developed in recent years, most of them
as informal urban and suburban settlements that are now under legalization process. There are no
industries in its near surrounding.



2.4 Roads

The project site is located near to road Tirana-Dajti and is easily accessed.




                                                                                            Page | 15

3. Description of the Environment (baseline data)

This section presents information related to the environmental impact assessment of
Laboratories of the Virology and the Bacteriology in Tirana area. Baseline conditions at the site
and its surrounding area are described below. This work is based on existing data and
information as well as on data gathered from the site investigation.

3.1 Physical environment
The site is a 0.6 hectare area located at the base of Tirana field, a relatively flat area. Nearest
surrounding area to the project site is Linza Hills to the East, Tirana City to the South-West and
Tirana River to the North. The Tirana field is a low-lying field, approximately 30 km length and
13 km width, ranging from 30 m.a.s.l. to 120 m in elevation. Tirana's average altitude is
110 meters above sea level. Other physiographic features of the surroundingareaincludelow hills.

3.1.1 Regional geologyandsoils
According to available geological studies, the site of project is located within the Kruja Zone and is
made up of quaternary deposits. In general, the quaternary deposits consist primarily of clayey silts
and sands of marine origin. The results of previous soil investigations show that the maximum
thickness of the quaternary deposits is about 40-90m.




                                         The geology map of the region



                                                                                             Page | 16

There was a soil monitoring process regarding the risk from radon in the Tirana area. According
to the results of monitoring, the values of radon concentration vary from 50 Bq/m3 to 3831
Bq/m3 10x. In other words Tirana lies over a red active thickness (red clay) that produces
        or

radon. This layer is going to develop particularly in parts of the city, characterized of 1-2 floors
building, destined to grow up. Consequently, before going on the construction a previous soil
investigation is needed.

The region is covered by various soils meanwhile the project zone is dominated from brown gray
soils type (eutric cambisol). The soils are originated from deluvions and limestone formations.


3.1.2 Seismicity
Albania is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the Mediterranean region and is periodically
subject to moderate to severe earthquake activity. Most earthquakes result from periodic movement of
blocks along the deep-seated Ionian-Adriatic faults. The construction area is mapped as having an
expectedmaximummagnitudeof6.5to7.0.

3.1.3 Surface water
The project site is quite flat without and superficial water resource. At about 200 m distance of the
project site passes a small stream called Gjeroza that discharges at Tirana river. The stream springs from
Dajti Mountain but its quality is deteriorated from the waste water discharges during the downstream
resultingthusinamuchpollutedstatethatcambeeasilydistinguished.




                                Superficialwaterresourcesnearbyprojectsite


                                                                                                  Page | 17

 3.1.4 Climate
 Tirana has a generally Mediterranean climate. This type of climate is characterized by warm to
 hot, dry summers and cool, wet winters. The average temperature varies from a low of 2°C in
 January to a high of 31°C in July and August which are also the driest months, each with around
 3 cm of precipitation on average. The wettest months are November, December, and February
 averaging between 15 to 20 cm. Average monthly temperature and precipitation data collected in
 the table below. The local topography, direction of the hills and mountains in surrounding area,
 influence wind patterns and wind speed in the project site.

Table 1 - Meteorological data for Tirana city

           Average               Temperature           Discomfort Relative          Average      Wet
Month      Sunlight                                    from heat humidity           Precipitatio Days
           (hour)      Average         Record          and                          n (mm)       (+0.25
                       Min      Max    Min Max         humidity     am      pm                   mm)
Jan        4           2        12     -8      19      -            83      58      135          13
Feb        4           2        12     -8      22      -            83      54      152          13
March      5           5        15     -4      26      -            83      53      128          14
April      7           8        18     -1      28      -            83      54      117          13
May        8           12       23     3       33      -            83      56      122          12
June       10          16       28     6       37      Medium       74      49      86           7
July       11          17       31     11      38      Medium       72      42      32           5
Aug        11          17       31     10      40      Medium       75      39      32           4
Sept       9           14       27     5       35      Moderate     82      45      60           6
Oct        7           10       23     1       31      -            85      59      105          9
Nov        3           8        17     -3      25      -            86      63      211          16
Dec        2           5        14     -7      22      -            83      63      173          16

According to the Hydro meteorological Institute of Albania the predominant wind direction is out of
the northwest. The most frequent and predominant winds blow from Southeast in winter and from the
Northwest during the summer months. The project site is surrounded from trees and shrubs that serve
as a green protective belt for the urbanized area resulting thus in an advantage for preventing the noise
and dust duringtheconstructionphase.




                                                                                                Page | 18

3.1.5 Air Quality
There are various kind of air pollutant which adversely influence on air quality. In the project
area the major source of air emission is the vehicle traffic. In recent years pollution has worsened
in Tirana city as the number of cars has increased. The amount of pollutants discharged from
cars differs greatly on the type of car, mode of driving and alteration of traffic. Most of motor
vehicles in Tirana are diesel cars that pollute much more than other models in circulation
elsewhere in Europe. Additionally, the fuel used in Albania contains larger amounts of sulphur
and lead than that allowed in other countries. Although the project site represents a new urban
area, another pollution source is the construction activity.

In the tables below are shown the data collected during monitoring process regarding air pollutants
in different parts of the Tirana city. Sampling point Tirana 3 is located next to the project area in
the building of Public Health Institute at about 100 m distance.


Table 2 ­ Contents of air pollutant in the project area during the year 2006

    Sampling point         Year         LNP          PM  10        Pb       NO2     SO2         O3
                                                  g/m3
        Tirana 3           2006          171           84          0.24     23       18         106
     Alb standards                       140           70           1       60       60         120
     EU standards                         90           50          0.5      40       50         110



3.1.6Noiselevels
Noise levels in project area are typical of any urbanized area and are primarily associated with vehicle
traffic.Thereisn'tanynoisemonitoringpointnearoftheprojectarea.



3.2 Biological environment

The site represents today a totally modified/altered urban/suburban habitat. The only remnant of
former natural/semi natural habitats is that small branch of stream that passes through nearby the
study area, along which some young trees of Populus sp. and Salix sp. are found here and there.
The ruderal vegetation of the open graslands is dominated by herbs (fam. Graminaceae,
Leguminoseae, and other mixed herbs), such as Lolium sp.div., Anthoxanthum odoratum,
Dactylis glomerata, Trifolium sp.div., Aegilops triuncialis, Ranunculus sardous, Plantago
coronopus, Asphodelus aestivus, etc. None of them represent any rare or endangered species.
Few planted olive, pine and broadleave trees (Pinus sp. Ficus sp. and Linden) are found inside
the study area.
Fauna of the site is very poor. Mammals are represented by few synanthropic rodent species
such as: Mus domesticus, Mus macedonicus, Rattus norvegicus, R. ratus, Apodemus sylvaticus.
From insectivores the only species met in here is Crocidura suaveolens. Bats that use the houses
as shelters, such as those of genera Pipistrellus, can fly over the site during their hunting.

                                                                                               Page | 19

Avifauna of the site is also poor and dominated by passerine and few other species linked with
urban areas such as: Passer domesticus, Pica pica, Corvus corone cornix, Alauda arvensis,
Galerida cristata, Hirundo daurica, Hirundo rustica, Delichon urbica, Apus apus, A. melba,
Anthus campestris, Sturnus vulgaris, Fringila coelebs, Carduelis carduelis, Lanius senator,
Streptolelia decaocto, etc. The only bird of prey of the site is Athene noctua. From the reptiles
we can mention Testudo hermani, Lacerta viridis, Podarcis muralis, P. taurica, Anguis fragilis,
and Coluber sp. Some few amphibians are rarely met inside or close to the site along the small
branch of stream, such as: Bufo bufo, Bufo viridis, Rana balcanica and R. lessone.




In spite of the fact that the site is not hosting any sensitive habitat, during the preconstruction and
construction works care should be taken to reduce damage of green areas and planted trees of the
site.


3.3 Inhabited settlements nearby the project site and infrastructure

Site is situated inside a recently developed urban/suburban area. Houses of one or two flours are
surrounded by taller new buildings and all this makes the area quite densely populated. This part of
the Tirana city has been developed very rapidly over the last few years, running even out of

                                                                                               Page | 20

control. Legalisation process is underway and it is expected that future development of this part of
the city will be under control. Inhabitants of this new settlement are newcomers from various parts
of the country that have migrated to the capital over the last few years. The project area is
administrated from the Municipal unit no 4 and is in the extreme boundaries with the Dajti
commune. The project site is at about 200 m in distance from the settlements except few houses in
the south beside the road Tirane ­ Linze which are at about 100 m in distance from the project site.




                        Satellite image of project site and adjacent settlements

The project is quite in distance from the settlements and fenced preventing thus the entrance of
non authorised persons. With proper management of the operational phase impact it is not
expected to have negative impacts on the inhabitants and surrounding settlements.

The area has already built infrastructure regarding the road access named Qemal Stafa which is
quite wide and linkage of Tirana city with the Dajti Mountain, the road is closed to the project
site at about 50m. Meanwhile in the map below with pink colour is showed the
telecommunication net and with red the electrical distribution system




                                                                                           Page | 21

3.4 Cultural and natural inheritage
In the nearby area where the construction works shall take place for building a new laboratory
there are no tracks found of cultural heritage or natural heritage. Dajti National Park situated
eastwards of the project site is expected to be influenced by the project proposal only if removed
soils from the construction site will be deposited at the quarries nearby Dajti, but this will be
done only if agreed with REA and Forest Directory of Tirana.



4.0 Environmental Impacts Assessment

4.1 Short description on the EIA methodology

The effects of the project have been assessed during three different phases of its implementation.
The process of preparing and EIA for construction of the new Animal Health Laboratory within
the site of IFSV has initiated site investigation and gathering information, throughout contacts
with relevant authorities, site visits and technical design. The assessment on the possible
environmental negative impacts is based on:

    - Site- visit;
    - Scientific and technologic evaluations of the project;
    - Research of different scientific literature;
    - Previous experience related to similar projects.

                                                                                           Page | 22

The assessment of the potential impact is based on the project phases and operations in each
phase.

     PHASE 1: Site preparation - demolition of existing buildings, clearing and site
       preparation for new building construction. During this phase environmental impacts are
       mainly concentrated in the working area and might be a result of preparation works (like
       removal of demolish waste). These activities might cause a limited local air pollution and
       also small pollution of the soil. In this regard certain measures have been proposed in
       order to reduce this pollution, like the follow up of all procedures foreseen by The Law
       for Construction and the Law on Waste.

     PHASE 2: Construction of the new building of Animal Health Laboratories. There are
       also in this phase certain environmental effects that are strictly concentrated with working
       area. Construction phase also results with land degradation, creation of waste leftover
       from construction materials, local air pollution, leakages of polluted waters as a result of
       certain processes, as well as with requirements toward safety at work, etc. For prevention
       of all this effects a set of measures has been proposed, like fulfilment of all the normative
       foreseen in the Law for Construction, waste management done in accordance the Law for
       waste, while other measures have been proposed for reduction of air pollution and noise.
       Excavated soil shall be deposited in a certain area, and further more shall be used for
       fulfilment of some areas and for final reshape and rehabilitation of this zone.


     PHASE 3: Operation of the new Animal Health Laboratory. This phase is expected to
       generate the most significant impacts on the environment and human health, such as the
       generation of hazardous and infectious waste, pollution of water discharged, the potential
       for air pollution and risk of transmission of infections. A number of mitigation measures
       are proposed to prevent and /or minimize these effects. Hazardous wastes produced
       during laboratory operation will be managed in accordance with legislation in force and
       best practices. Provided that in Albania there are no landfills for hazardous waste, their
       incineration is recommended as best option for their treatment. Fulfilment of normatives
       foreseen in the Law "On administration of hazardous wastes", and in the DCM on
       "Albanian waste catalogue", supply and installing a new incinerator and its operation
       according to the required best environmental standards, supply of a unit of waste water
       treatment plant (WWTP) and implementation of the International Best Practice in Safety
       of Research Laboratories are some of the main proposed mitigation measures.




4.2 Potential Impacts

Works associated with the construction of the new Animal Health Laboratories are not expected
to generate any significant environmental impact. However, impacts on environment coming
from the demolition of existing buildings, digging, earthmoving, and construction works, such
as dust, fumes, and odour (internal and/or external, including volatile construction materials),


                                                                                            Page | 23

  noise during demolition, digging and construction works and other impacts coming from
  transportation of construction and waste materials are estimated between low and moderate.

        -   Impacts during demolition of the existing buildings and preparation of the ground
            (earthmoving, digging, removal and transportation of soil) are: contamination of surface
            and groundwater by use of fuels and transport activity; soil contamination; waste storage;
            dust and air emissions; workers health and safety, noise.
        -   Impacts during construction phase are: contamination of surface and groundwater by use
            of fuels, construction materials, and transport activity; soil contamination; waste storage;
            dust, fume and air emissions; workers health and safety, noise.
        -   Impacts during the operation phase are mainly linked with hazardous waste management

  A checklist of potential environmental impacts of construction works related to the new
  laboratory of animal health to be constructed as planned inside the complex of IFSV is given in
  the Table 4.

  Table 4. Potential Environmental Impacts of Construction Work

   Site preparation phase

Main               Environmental                                            Mitigation Measures
operations         component             Potential Impacts

                   Soil and demolition Demolition waste (concrete) will be Protect non-construction areas from
                   waste                 produced from the demolition of    parking or machineries circulation.
Demolition of the                        the existing buildings (volume has
existing buildings,                      to be evaluated from the technical Proper design and management of field
clean up the site                        project team)                      works to minimize affected soil around
and preparation                                                             the construction site
works on the site
                                         Possible minor contamination from  Regular control of the construction
                                         accidental spills of               machineries and technical
                                         demolition/construction            maintenance.
                                         machineries
                                                                            Provide necessary prevention and
                                                                            pollution intervention tools (clean up)
                                                                            and knowledge for workers

                                                                            Provide adequate treatment (reusing)
                                                                            transport (covered lorries) and
                                                                            disposal at approved site

                   Flora (trees cutting) Few trees maybe cut                Plan properly to avoid unnecessary
                                                                            tree cutting




                                                                                                          Page | 24

                  Air Quality    Dust as a result of demolition and    Stop the demolition and transport
                                 concrete breaking works               during windy weather

                                 Fumes and odours of vehicle           Sprinkling the site with water
                                 combustions
                                                                       Covering the wastes transport lorries

                                                                       Regular control of the construction
                                                                       machineries and technical
                                                                       maintenance.

                                                                       Using qualitative fuels only (D1)

                                                                       Cleaning (washing up) the vehicles
                                                                       when leaving the construction site

                Noise emission   Noise disturbance from demolition     Planning the field works to minimize
                                 works                                 and reduce the noise production time

                                                                       Stop the noisy operations during night
                                                                       time to meet the noise quality
                                                                       standards

                                                                       Regular control of the construction
                                                                       machineries and technical
                                                                       maintenance.


              Social environment The project site is at about 200 m in Stop the noisy operations during night
                                 distance from the adjacent houses     time to meet the noise quality
                                 therefore the only impacts maybe      standards.
                                 the noise (minor and low noise
                                 levels) of demolition and vehicles.

                                 Workers health due to missing         Setting safety rules and training the
                                 safety rules                          workers

Construction phase




                                                                                                     Page | 25

               Soil and excavation Excavation of the foundation will     Solid waste must be disposed
               waste               impact the soil structure (pedon)     separately and transported regularly at
Opening the                        and layers of the soil                approved site or closed stone quarries
basement                                                                 to Dajti mountain (to be agreed with
foundation and                     Waste will be produced from the       REA and Forest Directory) or reused
construction of                    excavations of the foundations and    for green areas rehabilitation around
the structure,                     basement (volume will have to be      the new building
walls of the                       calculated from the technical
building                           project team after deciding the final Regular control of the construction
                                   version)                              machineries and vehicles regarding
                                                                         technical maintenance
                                   Possible minor contamination from
                                   accidental spills of
                                   demolition/construction               Proper design and management of field
                                   machineries                           works to minimize affected soil around
                                                                         the construction site

                                                                         Provide necessary prevention and
                                                                         pollution intervention tools (clean up)
                                                                         and knowledge for workers

                                                                         Protect non-construction areas from
                                                                         parking or machineries circulation.

               Air quality         Dust during construction operations Stop the construction works and
                                                                         transport during windy weather
                                   Fumes and odours of vehicle
                                   engines combustion                    Sprinkling the construction site with
                                                                         water

                                                                         Covering the wastes transport lorries

                                                                         Regular control of the construction
                                                                         machineries and technical
                                                                         maintenance.

                                                                         Using qualitative fuels only (D1)

                                                                         Cleaning (washing up) the vehicles
                                                                         when leaving the construction site

                                                                         Cover the sand and gravel in windy
                                                                         weather




                                                                                                       Page | 26

               Noise emission     Noise disturbance from                Planning the field works to minimize
                                  construction equipment and their      and reduce the noise production time
                                  traffic as well
                                                                        Stop the noisy operations during night
                                                                        time to meet the noise quality
                                                                        standards

                                                                        Regular control of the construction
                                                                        machineries and technical
                                                                        maintenance.

               Social environment The project site is at about 200 m in Stop the noisy operations during night
                                  distance from the adjacent houses     time to meet the noise quality
                                  therefore the only impacts maybe      standards.
                                  the noise (minor and low noise
                                  levels) of demolition and vehicles.
                                                                        Setting safety rules and training the
                                  Workers health due to missing         workers
                                  safety rules

Operational phase (indicative)

Lab activities Waste generation   Potential contamination of the soils Administrate the waste according the
               (hazardous)        and water in not administrated        Regulation no.6 date 30.11.2007 "For
                                  properly                              the administration of the hospital
                                                                        waste", DCM no.99 18.02.2005
                                                                        "Albanian waste catalogue"), that
                                                                        administer this field of waste. Classify,
                                                                        isolate, disposal cans etc

                                                                        Buy and install a new incinerator to
                                                                        replace the existing one, and its
                                                                        operation under the required
                                                                        environmental standards.

                                                                        International Best Practice in Safety of
                                                                        Research Laboratories1 to be
                                                                        considered during operational phase of
                                                                        the new Animal Health laboratories
                                                                        will applied

               Waste water        Minor water volumes will be           A special waste water treatment plant
                                  produced and thus maybe               (WWTP) should be installed at the
                                  discharged at the waste water         IFSV/AHL, so that is can treat all
                                  system                                waste waters produced .




                                                                                                      Page | 27

                  Human Health Risk for health of the examination        Provide information on mitigating
                                   team working in the field             measures.

                                   Risk of health of other people that   Capacity building to emphasize need
                                   are in contact with members of the    for safe working, good supervision,
                                   examination team or that might        careful planning and scheduling of
                                   come in contact with their            work and activities, involve
                                   contaminated equipment, clothes or communities, fence hazardous areas
                                   vehicles
                                                                         Careful design of works and accesses
                                   Spread of disease in other parts
                                   where poultry/bird live

                                   Spread of disease as a result of
                                   inadequate decontamination or even
                                   wrong decontamination procedure

                                   Risk of performing disinfection
                                   procedure



Construction works of the new laboratory will be carried out in accordance with Albanian
regulations and practice regarding construction permitting and environmental, health and safety
permits.



5.0 Analysis of Alternatives

Two possible scenarios maybe analysed, the first is scenario do not build in the proposed site and
the second is the proposed one. The alternative analyse will be based only in the selected
location and advantages and disadvantages of this option.

Table 5. Analysis of Alternatives

Scenario ­ Zero (not to built in the proposed site)       Scenario - Proposed building site

Advantages                                                Advantages

    Possibly far from the settlements                          Land owned from the IFSV

                                                               Existing infrastructure

                                                               Near with the Public Health Institute and
                                                                   main hospitals and research centres

                                                               Easy to monitor

                                                               Easy accessible




                                                                                                     Page | 28

Disadvantages                                        Disadvantages

     Higher costs for land buying                         Relatively close to human settlements

     Far from health research institutes and
       hospitals

     Missing infrastructure like water and energy
       supply , sewage system, public waste
       administration, incinerator etc

     Difficult to access and monitor



In a simple analyse results that the most relevant option is the proposed one, that's contruction of
the new laboratory at the proposed site, as part of the IFSV complex. This option is more fissible
not only from the costs point of view but also from the environmental implications related with.



6. Environmental Management Plan

The EMP includes a Mitigation and Monitoring Plan. The EMP presents the mitigation
measures for demolition/preconstruction, construction and operation phase. Mitigation measures
aims to prevent or reduce the possible project environmental impacts as well as the approximate
costs for these measures. The mitigation measures are recommended based on existing and new
regulations and enforcement incentives, installation of control equipment, implementation of
new procedures, landscaping of the environment, etc. The mitigation plan include measures for
emergency response to natural and accidental events (e.g., entry of raw sewage into stream, etc),
and health and safety, as appropriate.

The EMP proposes a plan of feasible actions to monitor the implementation of the mitigation
measures proposed in the Mitigation Plan and the impacts during the construction and operation.
In case the project will foresee a land disposal facility, then environmental monitoring should
include a regular schedule of monitoring the quality of surface and ground waters.

The EMP will be integrated in the current EMP of the Avian Influenza Project. It is prepared in
such way that could be easily integrated in the tender documents for the Contractors who will
perform the proposed civil works affiliated with the project investments. This will assure proper
implementation of the revised EMP during the course of the project civil works. The EMP is
given in the following matrix table (table 6a).




                                                                                            Page | 29

 Table 6a - Environmental Management Plan for the Construction of New Animal Health Laboratories of IFSV

Project activities    Potential effects/impacts             Mitigation measures             Responsibility for     Request for          Cost
                                                                                               remediation          monitoring
                                                                                                measures
                                                          SITE PREPARATION PHASE

                  Noise emissions                   Plan the working period to meet the         Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer  Operational
                                                    noise standards as required from
Demolition of the                                   Guidance no.8 date 27.11.2007
existing                                            "Allowed noise norms in the
buildings, clean                                    environment"
up the site and                                                                                 Contractor                           Operational
preparation       Dust emissions                    Sprinkling the site with water                             Supervisor/ Employer

works on the site Soil contamination                Visual control of cars and vehicles         Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer  Operational

                  Pollution of the IFSV platform    Washing the vehicles tires                  Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer  Operational

                  Generation of waste               Dispose or transport of waste           Authorized company Supervisor/ Employer  Operational
                                                    regularly
                                                            CONSTRCUCTION PHASE

Opening the       Soil degradation                  Removal of soil with humus and              Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer  Operational
basement                                            stored until being reused for levelling                    and REA and
foundation                                          and rehabilitation of surfaces around                      directory of forestry
                                                    the building or transport in an closed                     as well
                                                    quarry in Dajti mountain

                  Soil contamination ­ light soil   Visual control of vehicles and other        Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer  Operational
                  contaminations as result of       equipment that can potentially leak
                  leakages of fuel and other liquid oils.
                  materials from the vehicles. Also
                  soil can be contaminated with     Separation of waste from building
                  improper storage of waste created materials and its proper storage in a
                  during construction (construction temporary adequate place.



                                                                                                                                        Page | 30

Project activities    Potential effects/impacts           Mitigation measures            Responsibility for    Request for         Cost
                                                                                           remediation          monitoring
                                                                                            measures
                  waste etc.)

                  Water contamination              Construction of ditching channels        Contractor      Supervisor/ Employer Operational
                                                   and decantation pull in the vehicle
                                                   washing platform

                  Air emissions                    Sprinkling the construction site with    Contractor      Supervisor/ Employer Operational
                  Dust emissions during working    water
                  activities as well as emissions
                  coming from vehicle combustion.  Covering the wastes transport lorries

                                                   Stop the demolition and transport
                                                   during windy weather

                                                   Using qualitative fuels only (D1)

                                                   Cleaning (washing up) the vehicles
                                                   when leaving the construction site

                                                   Cover the sand and gravel in windy
                                                   weather
Construction      Water discharge                  Usage of water should be controlled.     Contractor      Supervisor/ Employer Operational
works             Construction activities (works
                  with cement and masonry) might
                  cause water discharges in the
                  surrounding          environment.
                  Especially, when watering of the
                  basement and floor platforms an
                  increased quantity of water
                  discharged is expected.




                                                                                                                                   Page | 31

Project activities    Potential effects/impacts            Mitigation measures           Responsibility for    Request for           Cost
                                                                                            remediation         monitoring
                                                                                             measures
                  Noise emissions                  -Plan the working period to meet the      Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer Operational
                  Noise is mainly a result of      noise standards as required from
                  vehicles engines working and     Guidance no.8 date 27.11.2007
                  their traffic.                   "Allowed noise norms in the
                                                   environment"

                  Generation of waste              -Gathering and transportation of          Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer Operational
                  Construction activities might    waste done by licensed regional
                  result with generation of solid  waste company
                  waste, especially inert ones.

                  Health and safety of workers     - Supervision of the works should be      Contractor     Supervisor/ Employer Operational
                  Different accidents                done regularly in order of ensuring                     /Work Inspectorate
                                                     that safety conditions are met and
                  Potential risks present :          any irregularity is being corrected
                                                     following the best practices.
                  - Inadequate lightning during    - Ensure instructions for drivers of
                    night shifts,                    heavy equipment.
                  - Operating with equipment       - Ensure communication between
                    without safety belt;             workers in the site where heavy
                  - Using equipment with improper    equipment has access.
                    braking systems;               - Ensure adequate lightning system
                  - Loss of attention and low level  for night shift.
                    of seriousness during work     - Ensure equipment are properly
                                                     maintained      and   that   safety
                                                     equipment is functional.
                                                   - Ensure usage of safety belts.
                                                               OPERATION PHASE

Routine           Generation of household waste     Household waste - to be stored in   Regional Public     Supervisor/ Employer Operational
surveillance,                                      containers.                          Company for Waste
diagnostic and                                                                          Management




                                                                                                                                   Page | 32

Project activities       Potential effects/impacts              Mitigation measures             Responsibility for     Request for         Cost
                                                                                                  remediation          monitoring
                                                                                                   measures
research activities

                     Generation of hazard waste                                                IFSV                IFSV and MoEFWA     Operational
                                                       Treatment of hazard waste in                                Inspectorate
                                                       accordance with regulations and
                                                       administrative instructions in force
                                                       (Law no. 9537, dated 18.05.2006
                                                       "On administration of hazardous
                                                       wastes", Regulation no.6 date
                                                       30.11.2007 "For the administration
                                                       of the hospital waste", DCM no.99
                                                       18.02.2005        "Albanian       waste
                                                       catalogue"), that administer this field
                                                       of waste. Treatment options should
                                                       be selected in cooperation with
                                                       authorities and in line with local
                                                       legislation.



                     Waste water discharges            Install a unit of waste water treatment IFSV                Waste water         Operational
                                                       plant (WWTP) at the IFSV/AHL to                             monitoring from the
                                                       treat all waste waters produced, prior                      IFSV and MoEFWA     and
                                                       to their discharge to drainage system.
                                                                                                                                       US$ 15.000-
                                                                                                                                       20.0002

                     Waste incineration                Supply and install a new incinerator,   IFSV                IFSV and MoEFWA     Operational
                                                       as the existing incinerator is small,                       Inspectorate
                     Emission of dioxins or furans,    very old and not functioning                                                    and
                     odour,      particulate    matter,properly.
                     hydrogen      chloride,   nitrogen                                                                                US$ 50.000 ­
                     oxides, sulphur dioxide, carbon Operation of the incinerator at the                                               70.0003


 2 Costs for supply and installing a unit of WWTP

                                                                                                                                          Page | 33

Project activities     Potential effects/impacts                 Mitigation measures             Responsibility for  Request for    Cost
                                                                                                   remediation       monitoring
                                                                                                    measures
                   monoxide,     volatile     organic design temperatures and combustion
                   compounds (from methane to air supply.
                   polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
                   (PAH), noise, etc.                    Adequate training and working
                                                         materials to the incinerator operators,
                                                         and other related personnel, and to
                                                         ensure that sites are prepared in
                                                         advance with hard standing and
                                                         catchments and containment of
                                                         disinfectants.
                                                         Carcasses should not be pre-treated
                                                         with a chlorine-bearing disinfectant
                                                         or should not be contained in PVC
                                                         bags




3Costs for supply/purchase and installing a new incinerator.

                                                                                                                                    Page | 34

Table 6b. International Best Practice in Safety of Research Laboratories4 to be considered
                 during operational phase of the new Animal Health laboratories

Procurement / Transport

· Minimize acquisition / quantity of hazardous materials, minimize storage time needed
· Identify mechanism of waste disposal before acquisition
· For chemicals, have Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) accessible/confine deliveries to areas that are
    equipped to handle them (and train relevant personnel)
· Ensure container is intact and appropriately labelled (US regulations detail how hazardous materials have to
    be identified, packaged, marked, labelled, documented and placard)
· Transport in appropriate (secondary) containers
· Use triple packaging system for infectious and potentially infectious substances
· Adhere to international air transport regulations
Storage / Management

· Inventory should have name as printed on the container
· For chemicals: include molecular formula for further identification and to provide a simple means of
    searching chemicals; include CAS (Chemical Abstract Service) registry number for unambiguous
    identification of chemicals despite the use of different naming conventions
· Source
· Size of container
· Hazard classification, as a guide to safe storage, handling, and disposal
· Date of acquisition, to ensure that unstable chemicals are not stored beyond their useful life, and Storage
    location


Procedures

· Dispose of materials anticipated to not be needed within a reasonable time frame
· Use approved containers; make sure storage containers remain intact and sealed
· Dispose of chemicals prior to expiration date, monitor reactive chemicals
· Replace deteriorating labels before information is obscured or lost
· Follow regulations for safe storage in stockroom or lab
· Avoid storing chemicals on bench tops or lab hoods
· Store volatile chemicals in ventilated cabinet (near hood)
· If ventilation is not required, store in closable cabinet or on shelf with lip to prevent sliding
· Do not expose stored chemicals to heat or direct sunlight
· Observe all precautions regarding the storage of incompatible chemicals
· Provide vented cabinets beneath hoods for storing hazardous materials
· Use chemical storage refrigerators for storing chemicals
· Have fire protection system (sprinklers)
· Follow storage limits for flammable and combustible liquids
· Restrict access to storage facility
Protocols / Facilities for Use in Research




                                                                                                              35

· Wear and use appropriate personal protection materials to minimize exposure
· Wash hands
· Reduce the possibility of creating splashes or aerosols
· Contain in biological safety cabinets operations that generate aerosols
· Use good housekeeping
· Use mechanical pipetting devices
· Promptly decontaminate work surfaces
· Never eat, ring, smoke, handle contact lenses, apply cosmetics, or take medicine in the lab
· Take special care when using sharps
· Keep lab doors closed when experiments are in progress
· Use secondary leak-proof containers to move or transfer cultures
· Decontaminate infectious waste before disposal
· Post appropriate warning signs
· Mark emergency equipment, maintain it, inspect it; list telephone numbers to call in case of accident
· Control access


For Radioisotopes

· Use only in designated areas
· Allow the presence of essential staff only
· Use personal protective equipment
· Monitor personal radiation exposures
· Use spill trays lined with disposable absorbent materials
· Limit radionuclide quantities
· Shield radiation sources
· Mark radiation containers with the radiation symbol, including radionuclide identity, activity, and assay date
· Use radiation meters to monitor working areas, protective clothing, and hands after completion of work
· Use appropriately shielded transport containers
· Remove radioactive waste frequently from the working area
· Maintain accurate records of use and disposal of radioactive materials
· Screen dosimetry records for materials exceeding the dose limits
· Establish and regularly exercise emergency response plans
· In emergencies, assist injured persons first
· Clean contaminated areas thoroughly
· Write and keep incident reports


For Animal laboratories

· Require good microbiological techniques
· Establish policies and protocols for all operations and for access to vivarium
· Establish appropriate medical surveillance program and supervision for staff
· Prepare and adopt safety or operations manual
· Post warning signs
· Decontaminate work surfaces after use
· Use appropriate biological safety cabinets or isolator cages; handle and decontaminate animal bedding and
    waste materials appropriately
· Transport material for autoclaving or incineration safely, in closed containers
· Treat, report, and record injuries



                                                                                                                36

Training of Personnel

Employer develops Chemical Hygiene Plan containing (models available from U.S. government and from some
professional societies)

·    Employee information and training about the hazards of chemicals in the work area:
             · How to detect their presence or release
             · Work practices and how to use protective equipment
             · Emergency response procedures
·    Circumstances under which a lab operation requires prior approval from the institution
·    Standard operating procedures for work with hazardous chemicals
·    Criteria for use of control measures
·    Measures to ensure proper operation of fume hoods and other protective equipment
·    Provisions for additional employee protection for work with select carcinogens and toxins
·    Provisions for medical consultations and examinations for employees
·    Labs should establish their own safety groups at the department level (include students and support staff)
·    Labs should provide training in safety and waste management for all lab workers, including students in
     laboratory classes
·    Labs should incorporate institutionally supported lab and equipment inspection programs into their overall
     health and safety programs
·    Review exit / evacuation routes
·    Know how to report fire, injury, chemical spill, or summon emergency response
·    Know first aid
·    Know location and use of emergency equipment such as safety showers and eyewashes
·    Know location and use of fire extinguishers and spill control equipment (have appropriate kits readily
     available)
·    Lab personnel should establish ongoing relationships and clear lines of communication with emergency
     response teams
·    Include information on safe methods for highly hazardous procedures commonly encountered by lab
     personnel that involve:
             · Inhalation risks
             · Ingestion risks
             · Risks of percutaneous exposures
             · Bites and scratches when handling animals
             · Handling of blood and other potentially hazardous pathological materials
             · Decontamination and disposal of infectious material
Segregation / Triage of Waste

Multi hazardous waste ­ goal is reduction of waste to a waste that presents a single hazard.

· Consider frequency and amount of waste generated; assess risk
· Identify / characterize waste:
             · Physical description
             · Water reactivity
             · Water solubility
             · pH and possibly neutralization information
             · ignitability / flammability
             · presence of oxidizer
             · presence of sulphides / cyanides
             · presence of halogens



                                                                                                                37

             · presence of radioactive materials
             · presence of bio hazardous materials
             · presence of toxic constituents
· Minimize waste's hazards
· Determine options for management of hazards
· If appropriate, take steps to neutralize waste or render it non-hazardous
· When possible, select a single management option
· Establish procedures for dealing with unstable waste, or waste that requires special storage or handling
· Store safely:
             · Designated room or facility modified to contain the waste (with ventilation and effluent trapping)
             · Protect workers
             · Minimize risk of fire or spill
             · Minimize radiation levels outside of area
             · Consider compatibility of materials being accumulated (e.g., aqueous and non-aqueous waste
                  should be separated)
             · Give particular attention to the handling or cleaning of radioactive laboratory ware, and to the
                  proper disposal of sharps.
             · Non-contaminated (non-infectious) waste can be reused or recycled or disposed of as general
                  waste
             · Contaminated (infectious) sharps ­ collect in puncture-proof containers fitted with covers and
                  treated as infectious; autoclave if appropriate
             · Contaminated material for decontamination by autoclaving and thereafter washing and reuse or
                  recycling
             · Contaminated material for direct incineration
Disposal

· No activity should begin unless a plan for the disposal of hazardous waste has been formulated
· Use appropriate disposal method for each category of waste
· Use appropriate containers
· Label and securely close waste containers
· Separate wastes as appropriate


For low level radioactive waste, options include

· Storage time for decay and indefinite on site storage,
· Burial at a low-level radioactive waste site,
· Incineration, or
· Sanitary sewer disposal


For biological waste, options include

· Disinfection
· Autoclaving
· For liquids, disposal in sanitary sewer; putrescible waste disposed of by incineration; needles and sharps
     require destruction, typically by incineration or grinding


Collection and storage of waste




                                                                                                               38

At satellite area near lab:
               · should be clearly identified, ventilated if necessary
               · determine whether to recycle, reuse, or dispose
               · hold here for less than one year; when containment volume limits reached, move to central
                   accumulation area ­ package appropriately
     At central accumulation area:
               · separate according to compatibility, commingle solvents when appropriate
               · label clearly, store in appropriate containers
               · limit storage time to 90 days
               · ensure that employees are trained to handle waste materials as well as contingency planning for
                   emergencies
               · When transporting, make provisions for spill control in case of accident; have internal tracking
                   system to follow movement of waste
               · Ensure that all necessary records have been generated (Quantities and identification of waste
                   generated and shipped; Documentation and analyses of unknown materials; Manifests for waste
                   shipping as well as verification of waste disposal; Any other information required to ensure
                   compliance and safety from long-term liability)

     Disposal options:
               · Incineration ­ is method of choice for most wastes, but is most expensive
               · Normal trash ­ only where appropriate, must be clearly identified and appropriately labelled
               · Sanitary sewer ­ not commonly used; solutions must be aqueous and biodegradable, or low
                   toxicity inorganic ­ make sure sewer doesn't drain into water supply inappropriate for waste
                   disposal, and make sure waste is highly diluted
               · Release to the atmosphere ­ not acceptable; fume hoods must have trapping devices to prevent
                   discharge to atmosphere


 · If hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are mixed, entire waste volume must be treated as hazardous
 · Preparation for transport to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF)
 · Waste generator must obtain assurance (in terms of documentation, permits, records) that provider is reliable


For infectious material

 · Decontaminate, autoclave, or incinerate in lab
 · Package appropriately (for incineration or for transfer to another facility for incineration)
 · Protect against hazards to others to those who might come in contact with discarded items




7. Public consultations and disclosure

Initially, as part of the work for the preparation of the Environmental Assessment (EA) and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Albania's Avian Influenza Control and Human
Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project, various meetings and consultation with different
stakeholders have been made. On June 15, 2006 a public briefing of the draft EMP was held at
the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection. It was attended by the


                                                                                                                 39

representatives from the Ministries of MoAFCP, MoH, MoEFWA, representatives of
environmental NGOs, local representatives of international agencies, and press.

Ministry of Environment, Forest and Water Administration (MoEFWA) taking in consideration
all these meetings, consultation and public discussion and in accordance with Albania's
legislation has issued an Environmental Permit for Albania's Avian Influenza Control and
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project.

Additionally, under this assignment, as prescribed in the ToRs, the consultant has established
contacts with the relevant EIA department in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Water
Administration. The procedures to get environmental permits for such a construction project
have been discussed. According to national legislation and the EIA screening process the project
for the construction of the new laboratory of animal health should submit the request for an
environmental permit from the Regional Environmental Agency of Tirana. Thus, the project for
the construction of the new lab at IFSV and the EIA and EMP should be submitted to the REA of
Tirana for review and get environmental permit to start being implemented.




                                                                                             40

