Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4206 ALB 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic  
Preparedness and Response Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 11, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4206 ALB 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 11, 2006, between ALBANIA (
“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient 
and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000) 
(“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, which is 
part of the Association’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response, designed to help countries in 
prevention, containment, control and eradication of avian influenza.  To this end, 
the Recipient, through the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer 
Protection and the Ministry of Health, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that: 
 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Co-financing Grant 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the Co-financing Grant 
Agreement. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the Co-financing Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under the Co-financing Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Annual Work Program for the first year of the implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been prepared and adopted 
by the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b)  
the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted by the Recipient; 
(c) 
the Environmental Management Plan, acceptable to the Association, has 
been adopted by the Recipient; and 
 (d) 
the Co-financing Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of 
the Financing Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
Tirana, Albania 
 
Facsimile:  
+355 42 28494  
 6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA  
 
By /s/ Ridvan Bode  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Nadir Mohammed 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project 
are to strengthen the country’s capacity to: (i) 
prevent the spread of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) among poultry; (ii) 
prevent the transmission of HPAI from birds to other animals and humans; and (iii) 
prepare for a potential pandemic of HPAI transmissible between humans.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part I: Public Awareness and Information Campaign
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods to the Avian Influenza 
Task Force to: (a) conduct an information campaign aimed at informing the general 
public about the status of HPAI and about ways to minimize the risk of transmission 
and spread of HPAI, and implement relevant activities for effective coordination and 
collaboration among stakeholders; and (b) develop and implement a public 
information and communications plan.  
 
Part II:   Animal Health
1.  
Provision of technical assistance and goods to: (a) develop implementing 
legislation, regulations and protocols in the area of veterinary service and inspectorate; 
(b) improve the Recipient’s national plan on pandemic influenza; and (c) support the 
planning and implementation of a pilot study aimed at improving poultry sector 
management. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, training, goods and works to: (a) strengthen 
veterinary epidemiological surveillance, through the creation of a National Veterinary 
Epidemiological Unit (NVEU) within the MAFCP; (b) strengthen diagnostic capacity and 
improve bio-safety levels within the Institute of Veterinary Research; and (c) improve 
animal disease information systems.   
3. 
Provision of technical assistance, training, goods and works to support activities 
foreseen under HPAI control programs and outbreak containment programs, including: 
(a) culling of infected and at-risk poultry; (b) disposal of carcasses and potentially 
infective materials in a bio-secure and environmentally acceptable manner; (c) provision 
of bio-safety and other appropriate protective clothing to veterinary personnel and 
laboratory workers; and (d) establishment and operation of a Compensation Fund for the 
provision of compensation to poultry owners for poultry culled by Governmental order.   
Page  7
-
6
-
Part III:  Human Health
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for enhancing public health program planning 
and coordination, through: (a) strengthening command and coordination mechanisms 
within the health sector; (b) 
revising the Ministry of Health’s contingency plan; (c) 
preparing a detailed plan defining operational priorities and identifying roles and 
responsibilities at each level of the health system; and (d) developing an implementation 
plan for “social distancing” and “hospital clean-out” measures in the case of an epidemic.   
2. 
 Provision of technical assistance, training and goods to: (a) strengthen the 
national public surveillance system of the National Influenza Laboratory; and (b) support 
the capacity of the IPH and regional epidemiological investigation and response teams.    
3. 
Provision of technical assistance, training, goods and works to strengthen the 
health system response capacity, through: (a) acquisition and provision of vaccines 
against seasonal and avian influenza; (b) acquisition of anti-virals and developing 
guidelines for their use; and (c) strengthening the capacity of medical service providers to 
isolate and treat patients with severe communicable diseases.   
 
Part IV:  Project Implementation Support for the Avian Influenza Task Force
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, goods and training to maintain a permanent 
Secretariat within the Avian Influenza Task Force with full-time staff in charge of Project 
management. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to support Project monitoring and evaluation 
capacities, including the development of an action plan for monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Avian Influenza Task Force (AITF) shall be responsible for overall Project 
implementation, monitoring and inter-agency coordination.  It shall have a permanent 
Secretariat, located in the MAFCP, headed by two Project Coordinators.  The Project 
Coordinators shall be full-time staff in charge of implementation of, and coordination for, 
Parts I, II and III of the Project, respectively.  In particular, the Project Coordinators shall 
be responsible for: (i) managing implementation of the MA
FCP’s and the MoH’s 
activities under the Project, and liaising with responsible agencies at regional, municipal 
and communal levels; (ii) coordinating with relevant Ministries to provide guidance and 
monitor Project implementation at the central level; and (iii) preparing Annual Work 
Programs, budgets and reports.   
2. 
The Recipient, through the MAFCP and the MOH, shall maintain the AITF, 
including the permanent Secretariat of the AITF and the Project Coordinators, throughout 
the implementation of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
and with sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources.   
3.  
The MAFCP shall be responsible for procurement and financial management 
activities under the Project.  The Recipient shall ensure that procurement and financial 
management activities for the project shall be carried out by the MAFCP under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association and with sufficient and suitable human, financial 
and technical resources. 
 
Section II. 
Implementation Covenants
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the obligations in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual and the Environmental Management Plan, and shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Project Operational Manual or 
the Environmental Management Plan without prior approval of the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through the MoH and the MAFCP, shall, not later than June 30 of 
each year, during the implementation of the Project, starting June 30, 2007, submit to the 
Association an Annual Work Program for the following calendar year, and shall agree 
with the Association on steps to be taken in the following calendar year. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section III. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1.  
The Recipient, through the MAFCP and the MoH, shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph 1 of this Sub-section, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2007, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date;  
 
(b) 
review with the Association, by January 30, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall determine, the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
 
(c) 
prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to 
the Association, for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the 
findings of the report referred to in paragraph (a) and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Page  10
-
9
-
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section IV. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services. 
 All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding - with the modifications set forth in paragraph 3 
below 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Limited International Bidding 
(d) Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
3.
 
National Competitive Bidding - Improvement of Bidding Procedures.  
In 
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the 
Page  11
-
10
-
provision of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the Recipient
’s National 
Competitive Bidding Procedures shall be improved as follows: 
 
(i)  
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in Public Procurement 
Law of Albania shall apply to all contracts; 
 
(ii)  
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process.  Government-owned enterprises in Albania 
shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and financially 
autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Recipient; 
 
(iii) 
Procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents approved 
by the Association; 
 
(iv) 
in case of higher bid prices compared to the  official estimate, all 
bids shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(v) 
a single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of 
bids; 
 
(vi) 
post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest 
evaluated bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid 
opening on qualification grounds; 
 
(vii) 
bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and 
severally liable; 
 
(viii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform 
in accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation 
criteria;  
 
(ix) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; and 
 
(x) 
contracts of long duration (more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
C. Particular 
Met
hods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2.
 Ot
her Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
 
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Individual Consultants 
 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Fixed Budget Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
 
Section V. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  13
-
12
-
Category 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1)  Goods, works, 
Operating Costs 
and 
Compensation 
Fund   
3,100,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Co
nsultants’      
services and 
Training 
 200,000 
100% 
(3)  Eligible 
Imported Goods 
required for the 
Project as 
specified in 
Section V.C of 
this Schedule 2 
 200,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 200,000 may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2006; and 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (3) in the table in Section V.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless:  
(i) 
a national emergency on Avian Influenza has been declared by 
the Recipient and a well-defined emergency recovery program, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the 
Recipient;  
Page  14
-
13
-
(ii) 
for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance or which 
the Association has financed or agreed to finance under another 
Grant or Credit; and  
(iii) 
in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of the 
amount of the Financing for any category of eligible imports 
specified in Section V.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
without prior approval by the Association.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
C.  
List of Eligible Imported Goods to be Financed in National Emergencies 
under the Credit 
1.  
Pharmaceuticals and vaccines 
2.  
Medical and veterinary supplies and equipment 
3.  
Protective clothing and gear 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1 and November 1: 
 
commencing November 1, 2016 to and including 
May 1, 2026 
 
5% 
________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Work Program” means the annual plan of activities supported by the 
Project to be carried out in each calendar year, as prepared by the Recipient and 
agreed between the Recipient and the Association pursuant to Section II.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Avian Influenza Task Force” or “AITF” means the inter-ministerial and inter-
sectoral decision making body chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, 
Food and Consumer Protection, and composed of representatives from various 
Ministries, established in October 2005. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section V of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Co-financing Grant” means an amount of eight hundred thousand Dollars to be 
contracted between the Recipient and the Association, acting as an administrator 
for the Government of Japan, to assist in financing the Project. 
 
5. 
“Co-financing Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Association, as an administrator of the funds 
provided by the Government of Japan for the Co-financing Grant. 
 
6. 
 “Compensation Fund” means the fund to be established by the Recipient out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, and to be financed and operated according to the 
principles and procedures set forth in the POM, utilized to pay  compensation to 
poultry owners for poultry culled; and referred to in Part II.3 (d) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.   
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Contingency Plan for Avian Influenza” means the plan for addressing avian 
influenza prepared by the Government of the Recipient with the assistance of the 
World Health Organization and United Nations agencies dated March 6, 2006. 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan consisting of the set of 
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken to eliminate 
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement these measures. 
10. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
Page  17
-
16
-
11.  
“HPAI” means Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza.  
 
12. 
“Institute of Veterinary Research” means the Recipient’s institute for veterinary 
research established in 1928, by the Government of Albania, and includes any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“IPH” means the Recipient’s Institute of Public Health (
Instituti i Shendetit 
Publik
), established pursuant to the Decision by the Council of Ministers No. 19 
of April 22, 1968. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection” or “MAFCP” means 
the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection of the Recipient and 
includes any successor or successors thereto. 
15. 
“Ministry of Health” or “MoH” means the Ministry of Health of the Recipient 
and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
16. 
“National Influenza Laboratory” means the Recipient’s central laboratory for 
influenza, established in October 1970, by the IPH.   
17. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the MAFCP, the 
MoH and the Secretariat of the AITF on account of the Project implementation 
including the costs of communication, printing and publications, supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, bank charges, local travel costs and field trip 
expenses, office rentals, and utilities, all based on an annual budget to be 
prepared by the Secretariat of the AITF, which shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated April 28, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
20. 
“Project Coordinators” means the two Project coordinators competitively 
selected by the AITF. 
21. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual describing: (i) procedures for  
implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement 
and with the national laws and regulations of the Recipient and including, 
inter 
alia
:
(ii) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits
,
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (iii) sample formats for annual 
Page  18
-
17
-
reports; (iii) the projected Annual Work Programs for three calendar years; and 
(iv) principles and procedures for financing and operating of the Compensation 
Fund referred to in Part II.3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
22.  
“Training” means expenditures incurred on account of Project related study 
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, 
including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
 
