Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6449 
Operation Name 
Second Restoring Equitable Growth and Employment 
Programmatic Development Policy Loan (REGE-DPL2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Country 
Turkey 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);Health 
(20%);Other social services (20%);General education sector 
(20%);Banking (10%) 
Operation ID 
P123073 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Inonu Bulvari, Eskisehir Yolu 
Emek 
Ankara 
Turkey 
06530 
Tel: (90-312) 204-6000 
Fax: (90-312) 212-8550 
hazine@hazine.gov.tr
Date PID Prepared 
March 8, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 10, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Country and Sector Background: 
Turkey has recovered strongly from the effects of the 
2008-09 global crises. The Turkish economy contracted by 4.7 percent in 2009 but 
bounced back to grow by more than 8 percent (est.) in 2010. This recovery was 
underpinned by economic reforms undertaken since 2001: fiscal consolidation, 
modernized debt management, an independent central bank, inflation targeting, a freely 
floating currency, and improved banking supervision. Turkey also continues 
implementing a major long-term structural reform agenda
—ranging from public financial 
management, health systems, and education to large-scale privatization and regulatory, 
energy, and environmental reforms. The government’s program proposed to be supported 
by the Second Restoring Equitable Growth and Employment Development Policy Loan 
(REGE-DPL2) focuses, in particular, on critical business climate and competitiveness 
reforms, while carrying forward Turkey’s ongoing fiscal and public financial 
management reforms.  With these reforms, Turkey aims to encourage private-sector led 
growth, employment, and improved social outcomes. They will also help manage 
external vulnerabilities to safeguard and extend recent economic gains.  
 
II. 
Operation
 
Objectives: 
With the transition from crisis management to renewed growth, 
the program supported by the REGE-DPL2 advances critical reforms on Turkey’s 
business climate and broader competitiveness and growth agenda, while carrying forward 
Page  2
the ongoing public sector reform agenda. The PPDPL/REGE-DPL program support key 
reforms in the provision of inclusive social services (health and social security), while 
making these sustainable by reining in costs.  Reforms in the area of equitable growth and 
employment focus on the business climate and selected improvements to vocational and 
basic education. 
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement: 
The proposed REGE-DPL2 was included in the 
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) as updated by the Country Partnership Strategy 
Progress Report, which was presented to the Executive Board on January 7, 2010. The 
program supports all three pillars of the CPS:  
·
Business climate reforms (enactment of the new Commercial Code, enactment of the new 
civil procedures law, and enactment of the new Code of Obligations) support the first 
pillar aimed at improving competitiveness and employment; 
·
The expansion of universal health insurance and the implementation of the pre-school 
expansion program contribute to the second pillar, equitable human and social 
development; 
The enactments of the new Turkish Court of Accounts (TCA) law and the new State Aid 
law, as well as the implementation of spending caps for university and private hospitals, 
support the third pillar, the efficient provision of high-quality public services.
 
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
700 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
 Total 
700 
 
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: 
The proposed loan will follow the 
Bank’s disbursement procedures for DPLs. The untied finances will be disbursed against 
satisfactory implementation of the program and not tied to any specific purchases and no 
procurement requirements will be needed. Upon approval of the loan and notification by 
the Bank of Loan effectiveness, the government will submit a withdrawal application. At 
the request of the Undersecretary of Treasury, the IBRD will deposit the proceeds of the 
loan with the CBRT into a designated deposit account which will form part of the official 
Foreign Exchange reserves of the country. The government will utilize the proceeds of 
the loan in foreign currency for either foreign debt servicing or for crediting the local 
currency equivalent into the treasury single account for financing budgeted expenses. 
Prior to that, the borrower will pay a front-end fee amounting to 0.25 percent of the loan 
amount from its own resources. If, after deposit in this CBRT account, the proceeds of 
the loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, for financing items imported from 
non-member countries or goods or services on the IBRD standard negative list), the 
IBRD will require the borrower to refund the amount directly to the IBRD, and the IBRD 
will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
 
Page  3
VI. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation: 
There are three main risks to the program’s outcomes: (
i
)
economic and external risks which comes from a reversal of capital flows could cause a 
significant growth slowdown, given the high level of the current account deficit and 
Continuation of sound macroeconomic policies and structural reforms will be the key to 
mitigating external financing risks, (
ii
)
implementation risks which relate to the need of 
having strong coordination and monitoring for the effective implementation of major 
public reforms, and 
(iii)
 political risks which relate to continuing domestic political 
differences and the possibility that the outcome of the upcoming general elections 
expected to be held in June 2011 could slow the pace or reduce the effectiveness of 
economic and social reforms.
 
VII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects: 
The program of reforms 
supported under REGE-DPL2 is expected to reduce poverty and inequality in Turkey over the 
long run. The program supports private-sector led growth and productive employment generation 
through reforms to (i) improve the climate for businesses, particularly SMEs (more than 90 
percent of firms), to grow through improved access to finance and reduced burden of regulations 
(also facilitated by a prudent management of public finances), (iii) make labor market more 
dynamic and enhance worker protection; (iii) increase access of the unemployed to productive 
employment through ALMP; and (iv) improve skills for work and reduce inequalities by 
providing a solid foundation in the early years. Also, the universalization of health insurance 
provides equal access to health services and financial protection for the poor, improving the 
health status of poor. The introduction of caps on hospital expenditures may decrease the quality 
of health services unless these caps are based on adequate pricing of health inputs. Finally, public 
financial management reforms increase transparency and accountability of public institutions 
(including local administrations), thus improving the provision of public services, which the poor 
tend to consume disproportionally. The rest of the section highlights some of these impacts.  The 
reforms supported by the proposed operation are not likely to cause significant effects on the 
country’s environment or natural resources. 
 
VIII. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Marina Wes 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5242+8359 / 90-312-459-8359 
Fax:  
Email: mwes@worldbank.org 
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD) 
 
 
IX. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  4
