Report No. PID10258
Project Name             Russian Federation-Second Tax...
Administration Modernization Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Central government administration (100%)
Project ID               RUPE66155
Borrower(s)              RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF TAXES AND FEES
Address: Ministry of Taxes and Fees
of the Russian Federation
23 Neglinnaya Street
Moscow, Russia 103381
Contact Person: Mr. Mikhail Mishustin,
Deputy Minister
Tel: (095) 209-2918
Fax: (095) 209-7507
Email: MnsO001@Nalog.Ru
Ministry of Finance
Address: 9 Ilyinka Street
Moscow, Russia 103097
Contact Person: Mr. Sergei Shatalov,
First Deputy Minister
Tel: (095) 298-9137
Fax: (095) 921-8624
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        August 12, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 24, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Fiscal reforms are central to the Government's medium-term agenda of
structural reforms. Notwithstanding improvements in fiscal performance
over 1999-2001, serious institutional weaknesses and fiscal risks undercut
the sustainability of these improvements. Tax administration reforms are
critical to addressing these weaknesses and risks, and contribute to
sustaining macroeconomic stability. The importance of timely and accurate
collection of revenue cannot be understated, as the total revenue
collection for 2000 is about 38 percent of GDP, including federal,
regional and local tax and non-tax revenues, as well as social
contributions. MinTax is currently responsible for the collection of
social contributions and all tax revenues--except the revenue collected by
Customs, which represents about 5 percent of GDP.The recent improvement in
fiscal discipline has been possible largely because of a sharp increase in
federal revenue, which rose to 16 percent of GDP in 2000 and accounts for
17.6 percent of GDP in 2001, compared to 13.4 percent in 1999--despite a



substantial reduction in tax rates. The increase in revenues was, in large
part, due to higher revenues associated with the oil and gas sectors, some
increase in intensity of the tax collection effort (particularly with
respect to monitoring financial conditions of the largest taxpayers), and
tax buoyancy from a rebound in growth. Furthermore, all revenues collected
at the federal level since 2000 have been in cash. With federal
expenditures kept in check at under 15 percent of GDP, the federal budget
for the first time showed an overall surplus of over 1.5 percent of GDP.
The regional budget also showed a surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP, with
total revenues equivalent to 16 percent and expenditures 15.1 percent of
GDP, respectively. While the improved fiscal position also reflects a
renewed Government emphasis on establishing control over Russia's public
finances--and recognition that strong fiscal discipline is essential for
industrial recovery--the sustainability of the fiscal position remains
vulnerable for several reasons. First, prospects for sustainable growth
and the resulting revenue buoyancy remain questionable in view of the time
needed for implementation of structural reforms. Second, given the huge
agenda of reforms and the accompanying fiscal costs, the budget needs to
plan for a well-sequenced, integrated, and affordable program of
structural reforms; otherwise, fiscal stability may be at risk. Third,
budget revenues are highly sensitive to changes in the international price
of Russian oil. Fourth, the dynamics of Russia's external outflows are
onerous, with peaks in debt repayments in 2003, 2005, and 2008. In the
absence of an integrated fiscal strategy, the debt dynamics pose a serious
risk to budgetary outcomes and macroeconomic management. And finally,
institutional arrangements for budgetary management remain underdeveloped,
particularly in the regions, which undermine effective budget preparation,
implementation, and evaluation.Recent government initiatives to address
the above risks in the short run include the development of a Program of
Priority Measures for 2000-2001 (Directive No. 1072-p dated July 26,
2000), which seeks to accelerate a program of macroeconomic, social, and
structural reforms in an integrated manner. The implementation of the
fiscal components of this program already has resulted in improvements in
inter-governmental fiscal arrangements, strengthening of treasury
management, a substantial reduction in budgetary arrears and nonpayments,
and initiation of detailed analyses of expenditure efficiency. Tax policy
and tax administration reforms are key elements of this program. The main
objectives of reforming the tax system are: (i) improving the investment
climate and creating conditions for achieving a balanced budget; (ii)
lowering tax rates and sharing them more equitably; (iii) simplifying the
tax system; and (iv) improving tax administration. The Government
objectives for development of the tax system in the long-run have been
described in detail in the so-called "Gref II" strategy report, Basic
Trends in Social and Economic Policy of the Government of the Russian
Federation over the Long Term, 2001, and further developed in the
medium-term program of social and economic development of the Russian
Federation for 2002-2004 (Government Order #910-r, July 10, 2001). Both
reports describe the government aim of substantial tax policy reforms and
the necessity of these reforms to simplify the tax system and eliminate
features of the system that create obstacles to private sector
development. The importance of fairness and neutrality of the tax system
for private sector development and of reducing the overall tax burden for
law-abiding taxpayers is emphasized. This requires a balanced and
comprehensive approach to tax reform. Tax policy reform objectives, which
reduce the revenue potential of the tax system--such as the reduction of
- 2 -



the VAT rate, and the phasing out of the sales tax--must be supplemented
by measures to increase the efficiency of tax administration so as to
avoid overall revenue losses. The Gref II strategy report--in addition to
proposing a number of legal changes to facilitate the detection and
prosecution of tax evasion cases and adjusting the balance between
taxpayers' rights and obligations in Part I of the Tax Code--goes into
considerable detail outlining a number of specific tax administration
reform requirements, and directly supports a number of key initiatives
proposed by the TAMP II project. These include calling for organizational
changes, such as the creation of regional inspectorates, reform of the
dispute resolution mechanisms, better cooperation and information exchange
with other government agencies, and creation of efficient data processing
centers.   The Government strategy recognizes, partially as a consequence
of TAMP I outputs, that current tax administration organization,
management, and operations do not facilitate an efficient and fair
collection of tax revenues, and have led to widespread tax evasion and
frustration in the business community. This is the perception of the
general public as well, which was revealed in a recent taxpayer survey
carried out in Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod (Taxpayer and Tax Inspector
Survey, PricewaterhouseCoopers, June 2001). The results showed that on
average more than 50 percent of taxpayers are convinced that any taxpayer
can easily hide his income, and that tax inspectors are unable to detect
tax evaders. It is generally recognized that the tax policy has a direct
impact on budget revenues and tax compliance. The Russian Government is
engaged in a comprehensive program to reform the tax code that is now
producing improvements. In general, tax policy issues will be addressed
in the context of the Government's own tax policy program and
corresponding IMF and Bank operations. As a result of the tax policy
reform, Part II of the Tax Code came into effect in 2001, introducing
significant changes in and reducing statutory tax burdens. The Government
is committed to support fundamental tax administration reform, and
reforming the Ministry of Taxes and Fees, building on the results of the
TAMP I project, by developing a full-scale tax administration reform based
on the Russian Federation Resolution 25.05.1995, No. 527, to improve tax
administration, as well as the Program of Cooperation between the Russian
Federation and the World Bank for the calendar years 2002-2004. MinTax
has prepared, with assistance from the IMF and US Treasury, an initial
strategic plan to strengthen the tax administration. The strategic plan
was revised in March 2001 and incorporated the new priorities of the
Government, taking full account of the experience and lessons of TAMP I,
and the results of the project identification seminar organized in
November 2000. This strategic plan formed the basis of a federal
earmarked program for development of tax administration, which was
approved by the Government. The Government is already actively reforming
the tax system and its administration. Corresponding tax policy reforms
to improve and simplify tax legislation are on-going and will reinforce
the results of the tax administration reform. The adoption of Part II of
the Tax Code, implemented from January 1, 2001, contains a number of
substantial administrative reforms, such as the introduction of a unified
social tax collected by the Ministry of Taxes and Fees, and new VAT
thresholds to ease the compliance burden on small businesses, which will
significantly enhance operational efficiency. Adoption of chapters of
Part II of the Tax Code on corporate profit tax and tax on extraction of
mineral resources, which became effective January 1, 2002, further
simplifies the tax system and moves it towards internationally accepted
-3 -



tax accounting practices. The Government enacted changes to Part I of the
Tax Code in 2001 to remove a number of administrative obstacles to
efficient tax administration.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the Project is to carry out a systematic
reform and modernization of the tax administration of the Russian
Federation (RF), so as to: facilitate voluntary compliance, increase
administrative efficiency, strengthen enforcement capacity, enhance
professional integrity and skills, and improve tax legislation and
fairness in the implementation of tax laws. As a result, the project
would support the strategic goals of promoting macro-economic stability,
improving the environment for private sector development, and
strengthening public institutions. The project would facilitate voluntary
compliance by: (a) instilling a service culture within the tax
administration; (b) improving the quality of taxpayer services; (c)
fostering the development of taxpayer advisory services both in the tax
administration and the private sector; (d) simplifying forms and
procedures; (e) developing e-Government capacity to enable filing of tax
declarations, payment of taxes, and provision of information and services
to taxpayers electronically; and (f) promoting understanding of the tax
system by the general public through communication campaigns and possible
inclusion of tax-related topics in school curricula.The project would
increase administrative efficiency by: (a) supporting the development of a
functional organizational structure at the headquarters of the Ministry of
Taxes and Fees (MinTax) and in regional and local offices; (b) creating
Data Processing Centers (DPCs) at the federal and regional levels to
exploit economies of scale in routine data processing; (c) consolidating
local offices; (d) standardizing workflows based on re-engineered business
processes; and (e) automating key operational and management processes.The
project would strengthen enforcement capacity by: (a) implementing a
third-party information system to enable improved monitoring of taxable
transactions; (b) enhancing tax audit and investigation capacity; (c)
improving collection of tax arrears; and (d) increasing effectiveness in
management of large taxpayers.The project would promote professional
integrity and skills by: (a) establishing a clear code of ethics and
conduct; (b) improving the incentive structure; (c) implementing
strategies and business processes that reduce the opportunity for breeches
in professional ethics; (d) strengthening human resource management; (e)
training managers and staff in different functional areas; and (f)
creating a professional development infrastructure for continuous
upgrading of skills.The project would improve tax legislation and equity
and fairness in the implementation of tax laws by: (a) assisting MOF in
proposing changes to tax legislation and regulatory acts; (b) educating
taxpayers about the tax code, administrative procedures, taxpayer
services, and taxpayer rights and obligations; (c) improving the tax
administration's capacity to administer the tax laws uniformly and
consistently throughout the country; (d) increasing the objectivity,
impartiality, and efficiency of dispute resolution mechanisms; and (e)
enhancing the responsiveness of the tax administration through improved
interaction with taxpayers and other stakeholders.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's comparative international experience will assist the Russian
Federation and MinTax in particular to benefit from the Bank's increasing
- 4 -



institutional knowledge in the development of successful tax
administration projects, both in countries with transitional economies as
well as in countries in other regions of the world. The momentum for
reform engendered by TAMP I will also be sustained and would provide
further impetus to mount a much more comprehensive reform than otherwise
would have been possible without this experience. The coordination of the
Bank with the IMF and other donor agencies can be expected to provide a
solid foundation of support and cooperation, thus adding significant value
to the Bank's role in the ongoing process of tax administration reform in
the Russian Federation. A special Donors' Conference was held in Moscow
in April 2002 with donors from the French and Swedish governments,
EU-TACIS, UNDP, OECD, and the US Treasury, which is expected to provide
the basis for on-going support, coordination, and cooperation to the TAMP
II project.
4. Description
The project will provide consulting services, training and goods to
support activities under the three general areas of Tax Administration
Management, Tax Administration Operations, and Project Management. These
are divided into 11 components: Organization and Management ; Human
Resources and Training; Infrastructure; Legal, Regulatory and Appeals
Framework; Unified State Register of Taxpayers; Development of Electronic
Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems; Audit and Investigation;
Arrears Management; Taxpayer Services Development; Largest Taxpayer Units;
and Project Management.I. Tax Administration ManagementA. Organization
and Management - US$ 3.6 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01 million
recurrent cost)Sub-component 1: Organizational structure - US$ 0.4 million
(base cost)This sub-component will support the implementation of the
functional structure at the regional, and local levels including the
reorganization of territorial and local tax offices and the refurbishment
of offices to support the reorganization. The sub-component would also
support further development of the federal level structure based on the
findings of the organizational structure analysis.Sub-component 2:
Management System - US$0.4 million (base cost)This sub-component will
support activities aimed at reviewing and strengthening the organizational
units in MinTax and at the regional level for formulation of operational
strategy, setting targets for different operational areas, developing
indicators to measure performance, preparing annual business plans,
preparing budgets, assessing workload and allocating resources. It will
also assist in strengthening the Internal Audit Department and review and
improve communication systems between and within MinTax and territorial
offices and between MinTax and other related government
agencies.Sub-component 3: Development of standardized workflows in tax
administration at all levels - US$0.2 million (base cost)This
sub-component will support the re-engineering of business processes for
organization and management in inter-regional, regional and local offices
including the development of manuals documenting standard processes to be
followed by all offices.Sub-component 4: Revenue forecasting and tax
modeling - US$ 1.0 million (base cost)This sub-component will assist in
developing and implementing a revenue forecasting and tax modeling
system. Sub-component 5: Change Management - US$1.6 million (base
cost)This sub-component will support activities aimed at developing and
implementing appropriate strategies for managing organizational change at
all levels of the tax administration, including communication strategies
to explain the rationale and potential impact of proposed changes to all
- 5-



managers, staff, taxpayers and other stakeholders.B. Human Resources and
Training - US$11.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.2 million recurrent
cost)Sub-component 1: Human Resource Management - US$0.6 million (base
cost)The sub-component will support, as a long-term objective, the
development of transparent and standard procedures for the recruitment,
selection, hiring and dismissal of personnel and developing career paths
based on the new functional organization occupational categories. In the
short-term, this sub-component will assist MinTax in development of a
salary and benefits reform package to the extent possible, including
building in performance incentives based on transparent criteria for wage
setting and benefits. Sub-component 2: Training Delivery - US$11.0 million
(base cost)This sub-component will assist in developing the actual
training that will be delivered to the project regions and headquarters
during project implementation. Training will be focused on the
implementation needs of each technical component of the project and will
be provided in packages by experts and subsequently delivered to the
regions.Sub-component 3: Improve Professional Ethics - US$0.3 million
(base cost)This sub-component will assist in improving the Ministry's
capacity to manage professional ethics by developing legislation and other
regulatory and legal acts related to the protection of tax officials from
illegal encroachments, and provision of technical assistance in developing
and implementing a strategy for the prevention of potential offences on
the the part of certain tax authority officials and developing methods for
assessments of staff integrity and the fair treatment of the taxpayers,
including development of the code of ethics. C. Infrastructure - US$111.0
million (base cost, including US$ 7.7 million recurrent cost)Sub-component
1: Establishment of the FDPC - US$14.9 million (base cost)This
sub-component will assist in establishing a FDPC in Moscow through
legislative changes, preparation of physical facilities, procurement and
implementation of adequate hardware, software and telecommunications
equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution
of functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax
authorities.Sub-component 2: Establishment of RDPCs - US$28.0 million
(base cost)This sub-component will assist in establishing RDPCs through
legislative changes, preparation of physical facilities, procurement and
implementation of adequate hardware, software and telecommunications
equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution
of functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax
authorities.Sub-component 3: IT Infrastructure - US$50.5 million (base
cost)This sub-component will assist in the design of a corporate
telecommunications network and the design, development and implementation
and maintenance of an advanced information technology system to support
all aspects of tax administration. This component will also assist in the
design and implementation of a human resource management information
system and a Financial Management and Financial Asset Management
Information system to enable MinTax to manage its administrative resources
effectively.Sub-component 4: Physical Infrastructure - US$10.1 million
(base cost)This sub-component will adapt the current physical
infrastructure of the tax administration to the standards necessary to
support automation and functional distribution of work. It will assist in
refurbishment and overhaul of administrative buildings, buildings of
interregional inspectorates; improvement of storage facilities for tax
documents, as well as carrying out activities to establish security
systems for facilities of the tax administration, including fire
protection and protection of data from criminal actions. II. Tax
- 6 -



Administration OperationsA. Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework -
US$3.5 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)Sub-component 1: Legal and Regulatory Framework - US$3.0 million
(base cost)This sub-component would support Ministry of Finance in the
development comprehensive tax policy in Russia. It would also assist the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxes and Fees in reviewing
current tax legal and regulatory framework and preparing proposals for
introducing amendments to legal and regulatory acts, as well as drafting
new legislative and regulatory acts to take into account short- and
long-term policy priorities. The component would assist in improving
consistency between various legal and regulatory acts and in harmonizing
laws and rules at federal, regional and local levels. It would also assist
in simplifying procedures and ensuring the tax administration has
sufficient powers to administer tax laws.Sub-component 2: Appeals - US$
0.5 million (base cost)This sub-component will assist in strengthening the
overall appeals system through carrying out informational campaigns for
taxpayers relating to the new system; conducting experiencing-sharing
meetings with the judiciary to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
the court appeals system, specifically what court procedures can be
undertaken when tax decisions are appealed; and the development of a
database of precedents from court decisions of tax cases that can be used
to help MinTax decide what cases to pursue in court and and how to
prosecute them.B. Unified State Register of Taxpayers - US$1.1 million
(base cost, including US$ 0.1 million recurrent cost)This component will
support the software development and implementation to improve the Unified
State Register of Taxpayers, including reviewing and proposing changes to
legislation and regulations to require the application of a taxpayer
identification number (TIN) to specific economic transactions. C.
Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$
6.7 million (base cost, including US$ 0.3 million recurrent
cost)Sub-component 1: Electronic filing - US$5.1 million (base cost)This
sub-component will support preparing requirements analysis and
specifications, developing and implementing a system for e-filing. The
component will also assist in devising incentives for taxpayers to use
e-filing, and carrying out communication campaigns and training of
taxpayers to encourage e-filing.Sub-component 2: Tax Payment Accounting
Systems - US$ 1.3 million (base cost)This sub-component will assist in the
development of the architecture of the system for data interchange with
the treasury system, as well as the procurement of software, hardware, and
telecommunications services. D. Audit and Investigation - US $7.9 million
(base cost, including US$ 0.1 million recurrent cost)This component will
help strengthen the audit capacity of MinTax through the development of a
third-party information system, development and implementation of
computerized desk and field audit systems, development and implementation
of a computerized system for selection of field audit cases, piloting the
system for checking VAT invoices, strengthening intelligence and
investigation operations and cooperation with financial police, as well as
implementing a system for processing and accumulating data on citizen
incomes and property.E. Arrears Management - US $1.1 million (base cost;
no recurrent costs are planned for this component)This component will
support activities to improve the techniques and procedures for recovery
of tax arrears, assist in improving the data exchange system with the Bank
of Russia to retrieve data on the amount of arrears accumulated by problem
banks, review and implement the arrears management information system and
policy, and develop guidelines and procedures to write off uncollectible
-7 -



arrears. F. Taxpayer Services Development - US $1.8 million (base cost,
including US$ 0.01 million recurrent cost)Sub-component 1: Develop the
concept for a comprehensive tax education system for RF citizens - US$ 0.1
million (base cost)This sub-component will assist in designing a national
strategy for production and dissemination of educational materials related
to taxation. Sub-component 2: Taxpayer information and consultancy service
- US$1.6 million (base cost)This sub-component will support the
development of taxpayer information and consultancy services including the
development of service standards for the whole country and explanatory
materials to guide taxpayers in compliance with tax laws. It will further
assist in the design and implementation of portals and web sites of MinTax
and its regional departments for disseminating materials on current tax
legislation issues. Sub-component 3: Introduction of the self-assessment
principle for the filing of tax returns and related documents - US$0.1
million (base cost)This sub-component will assist in simplifying and
unifying tax forms while ensuring that data necessary for auditing and
reconciliation of tax returns is provided by taxpayers, and in developing
easily understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.G.
Largest Taxpayer Units - US $0.7 million (base cost; no recurrent costs
are planned for this component)This component will develop methodologies
for effective management of the largest taxpayers, including an analysis
of the organizational characteristics of these enterprises and the impact
of their restructuring on the tax base and tax revenues, as well as
develop and implement methods and software for forecasting the revenues
and tax burden of these taxpayers.III. Project Management - US $4.0
million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)Sub-component 1: Project Management - US$3.7 million (base
cost)This sub-component will assist in managing project implementation and
cover the costs of project management, including Project
Advisor.Sub-component 2: Development of an evaluation system to assess the
effectiveness of activities carried out in the Tax Administration
Modernization Project - US$0.4 million (base cost)This sub-component will
assist in analysis of the implementation progress based on the reference
assessments and introduction of proposals aimed at increasing
effectiveness of the activities. Periodic surveys of taxpayers, managers
and staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders will also be conducted to
solicit their perceptions about improvements made in the tax
administration, to identify continuing problems, and to propose measures
that might be taken to improve agency performance.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $58.00
IBRD $100.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $158.00
6. Implementation
TAMP II will change dramatically the way MinTax conducts its management
and operations, as well as the way it relates to taxpayers and other
economic agents. Because it will impose extensive change management
requirements affecting all areas of MinTax business, the project will be
personally led by the Minister of Taxes and Fees, who will chair a
Steering Committee consisting of key members of his staff, regional
representatives, and representatives of key government agencies, including
- 8 -



the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade (MOEDT). The Minister of Taxes and Fees will nominate as Project
Director one of the Deputy Ministers, who will have overall responsibility
for project implementation. A Modernization Department, responding
directly to the Minister, has been created at Headquarters with 27 staff
to concentrate exclusively on the day-to-day management of modernization
of the Ministry.   To ensure adequate coordination of project activities, a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be created in the Ministry. The PCU
will be chaired by the Head of the Modernization Department and comprise
heads or deputy heads of other MinTax functional departments responsible
for implementation of different project components, as well as regional
representatives and representatives from MOF and MOEDT. The PCU will be
responsible for the design and overall administration of the project
including, inter alia, project monitoring and evaluation, and quality
assurance, and will have the authority to execute administrative actions
necessary to implement the project. To date, no special administrative
authority has been given to either the Modernization Department or its
Head. This will be included in the provision for the PCU, and approved by
the Steering Committee. The Modernization Department will also be the
focal point for internal and external relations with respect to the
project. Last, it will be responsible for benchmarking and tracking
agreed project indicators, some of which will be based on periodic
taxpayer and staff surveys, and tracking day-to-day progress in project
implementation together with the PIU.It was decided, that no special
implementation arrangements will be created in MOF for management
activities on legal policy development. Instead, organizational structures
created within MinTax will be used for this purpose.Federal Center for
Project Finance (FCPF) will be contracted as a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) to execute the back-office project functions of procurement,
accounting, and project reporting activities. FCPF will report to the
Project Director and will discharge its responsibilities in close
cooperation and coordination with the Modernization Department. The
FCPF's responsibilities will include maintenance of the financial
management system, including preparation of periodic financial monitoring
reports (FMRs) and ensuring the annual audit of project accounts, annual
reports, the mid-term review and the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR).Actual project implementation entails the execution of a large
number of project activities in many functional areas of headquarters,
regional offices, and local tax inspectorates. Accordingly, special
project implementation arrangements have been created at all three levels
of MinTax's structure. The execution of implementation activities is
coordinated through the Project Coordination Unit.The responsibility to
implement the modernization of headquarters functional areas activities
has been given to those areas of MinTax responsible for the specific tax
administrative function being modernized. This was done to promote the
internalization of the modernization process. Thematic groups
corresponding to these functional areas have been created at headquarters
with the participation of regional staff. The heads of the Thematic
Groups belong to the Project Coordination Unit. Similarly, each regional
office has created a special structure to manage the modernization process
in the region. A deputy regional director heads the regional
modernization structure. The structure includes a Regional Coordination
Committee that coordinates the modernization activities at the regional
office and at the tax inspectorates. It also includes a Project
Management Unit that provides the logistical and technical support to all
-9-



modernization activities in the region, with an average of 10 to 12
staff. At the local level, each of the targeted tax inspectorates has
also created a special structure to manage the modernization process. The
head of the local inspectorate has been put in charge of the local
modernization activities. The project modernization management structure
at the local level consists of six staff per local inspectorate. Access to
international best practice is of fundamental importance to the success of
the project. During this process, every effort will be made to seek
technical assistance from donors, particularly those with tax
administrations that exhibit pockets of excellence. The Modernization
Department will coordinate with donors operating within the context of the
project to ensure consistency of approach and avoid duplication. Donors
currently include, among others, the EU, US Treasury, Denmark, and USAID.
In April 2002, MinTax has organized a Donors' meeting, when assistance and
commitment was sought in a manner fully consistent and coordinated within
the project concept and framework. The Modernization Department will be
fully involved in coordination of resulting technical assistance, calling
on the Bank for quality assurance as needed.    The project organization
arrangements necessary to support the operation will be presented in
detail in Project Operations Manual to be prepared and agreed with the
Bank prior to the Board Presentation.
7. Sustainability
Project sustainability will depend largely on the capacity of the Ministry
of Taxes and Fees to institutionalize the full agenda of reforms in a way
that enables the ultimate expansion of all project results to all regions
of the Russian Federation equally. This depends in large measure on the
incremental expansion of reforms building on the results of the first two
to three project years, when organizational, managerial, technical and
systems reforms will take place in the six to eight most
revenue-productive tax offices (except for the Moscow and St. Petersburg
regions). It is anticipated that following the successful implementation
of this phase, the experience gained and lessons learned will greatly
enhance the probability of sustaining the major tax administration reforms
undertaken. The advances achieved in the first project in the
organization of regional and local offices, the design of functional
business procedures, and the automation capacity generated by the project,
all have been sustained very well by MinTax. There is no reason
sustainability would be different for the second project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project incorporates lessons learned from tax reform efforts in other
regions of the world, including those in transition economies. The
following figure among the most important: (i) A tax administration reform
can succeed only with the strong will and commitment of the Borrower and
the Tax Administration.(ii) A medium to long-term strategic vision, owned
by the agency, is needed to carry out a deep tax administration reform and
build the requisite capacity.(iii) For tax reforms to be successful they
must address institutional constraints to tax administration performance,
and not center reforms exclusively on information technology and systems
solutions.    (iv) Business process re-engineering and related automated
applications must be fully integrated throughout the tax administration,
with appropriate management of the organizational transition-including
human resource and training aspects-as a central part of this process.(v)
Development of application systems software is often a major bottleneck.
- 10 -



Application systems software should be developed and fully tested early in
the project cycle, and equipment purchases made after the software is
successfully piloted.(vi) Performance benchmarks and indicators need to be
established for the tax administration in general as well as for staff to
develop the technical skills needed to sustain reforms.(vii) Modernization
of local tax offices requires their full participation and an adequate
diagnostic of local capacity, taking into account technical and managerial
constraints and local tax environments.(viii) Efforts to control the
potential for corrupt behavior by tax officials requires a comprehensive
strategy aimed at reducing the motive and opportunity for corruption, and
providing incentives for integrity to take hold.(ix) Creation of a
sustainable revenue collection system requires both tax policy and tax
administration reform.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Carlos D. C. Ferreira
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473 2608
Fax:   (202) 522 2751
E-Mail: CFerreira@WorldBank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 16, 2002.



