Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23565-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 million
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
September 19, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Ruble
Ruble I = US$0.0317
US$ I = 31.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL       Adaptable Program Loan                 MoEDT       Ministry for Economic Development and Trade
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            MOF         Ministry of Finance
CBR       Central Bank of Russia                 NN          Nizhniy Novgorod (TAMP I pilot site)
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment NPV    Net Present Value
CIS        Commonwealth of Independent States    OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
ConOps    Concepts of Operation (report)         PCU         Project Coordination Unit
DPCs      Data Processing Centers                PIP         Project Implementation Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Retum                 PIT         Personal Income Tax
EU-TACIS European Union-Technical Assistance for  PIU        Project Implementation Unit
Commonwealth of Independent States
FCPF      Federal Center for Project Finance     POM         Project Operations Manual
FDPC      Moscow Interregional Inspection for    RDPC        Interrayon Inspection for Centralized Data Processing
Centralized Data Processing
FMR       Flnancial Monitoring Report            RF          Russian Federation
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                 SAL (I/II/III) Structural Adjustment Loan (I1I/III)
GPN       General Procurement Notice             STS         State Tax Service
HR        Human Resources                        TA          Technical Assistance
IBRD      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and  TAMP (I/Il) Tax Administration Modemization Project
Development                                        (first/second)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report       TIN         Tax Identification Number
ILO       Intemational Labor Organization        UNDP        United Nations Development Program
IMF       Intemational Monetary Fund             USAID       US Agency for International Development
IT        Information Technology                 UTA         Unified Treasury Account
LTU       Large Taxpayer Unit                    VAT         Value Added Tax
MinTax    Ministry of Taxes and Fees             VG          Volgograd (TAMP I pilot site)
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Director:   Cheryl W. Gray
Sector Manager:    Helga W. Muller
Task Team Leader:     Carlos D.C. Ferreira



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    13
3. Benefits and target population                                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              19
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership                                19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        21
2. Financial                                                                        22
3. Technical                                                                        23
4. Institutional                                                                    23
5. Environmental                                                                    24
6. Social                                                                           25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               27



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  27
2. Critical risks                                                                  27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  30
G. Main Loan Conditions
I. Effectiveness Condition                                                         30
2. Other                                                                            30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         76
Annex 1 1: Summary Diagnostic of Ministry of Taxes and Fees' Constraints              78
Annex 12: Institutional Analysis                                                       83
Annex 13: Supervision Plan                                                             92
MAP(S)
IBRD Map No. 32112



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: September 19, 2002                          Team Leader: Carlos D. C. Ferreira
Sector Manager: Helga W. Muller                   Sector(s): Central government administration (100%)
Country Director: Julian F. Schweitzer            Theme(s): Tax policy and administration (P)
Project ID: P066155
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Project Financing Data   -_
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant     [1 Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency:: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $100 million
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 3 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                         Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75                            Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Borrower to Pay from Own Resources
Finiancing Plari (US$m):  Source-                .          Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      58.00           0.00         58.00
IBRD                                                          10.00          90.00        100.00
Total:                                                        68.00          90.00        158.00
Borrower: RUSSIAN FEDE'RATION
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TAXES AND FEES
Address: Ministry of Taxes and Fees of the Russian Federation
23 Neglinnaya Street
Moscow, Russia 103381
Contact Person: Mr. Mikhail Mishustin, Deputy Minister
Tel: (095) 209-2918          Fax: (095) 209-7507           Email: Mns000lNalog.Ru
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance
Address: 9 Ilyinka Street
Moscow, Russia 103097
Contact Person: Mr. Sergei Shatalov, First Deputy Minister
Tel: (095) 298-9137          Fax: (095) 921-8624           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
.Q. :2Q-               - 05       -.2006'.''268-                   20
- ;lFY -5-......-:  2003-.-  200!4  .   _                ' 2005-.7i............ 06.,  Kf 2 07:'  ;200 : 09_
Annuao      1.88     28.16      37.44      17.77      9.47       4.08       l.2u
Cumulative     1.88      30.04     67.48      85.25      94.72     98.80     100.00
Project implementation period: 2003-2008
Expected effectiveness dalte: 01/01/2003  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
DCS PAO Fo-  . V Ul1W



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Project is to carry out a systematic reform and modernization of the tax
administration of the Russian Federation (RF), so as to: facilitate voluntary compliance, increase
administrative efficiency, strengthen enforcement capacity, enhance professional integrity and skills, and
improve tax legislation and fairness in the implementation of tax laws. As a result, the project would
support the strategic goals of promoting macro-economic stability, improving the environment for private
sector development, and strengthening public institutions.
The project wouldfacilitate voluntary compliance by: (a) instilling a service culture within the tax
administration; (b) improving the quality of taxpayer services; (c) fostering the development of taxpayer
advisory services both in the tax administration and the private sector; (d) simplifying forms and
procedures; (e) developing e-Government capacity to enable filing of tax declarations, payment of taxes,
and provision of information and services to taxpayers electronically; and (f) promoting understanding of
the tax system by the general public through communication campaigns and possible inclusion of
tax-related topics in school curricula.
The project would increase administrative efficiency by: (a) supporting the development of a functional
organizational structure at the headquarters of the Ministry of Taxes and Fees (MinTax) and in regional
and local offices; (b) creating Data Processing Centers (DPCs) at the federal and regional levels to
exploit economies of scale in routine data processing; (c) consolidating local offices; (d) standardizing
workflows based on re-engineered business processes; and (e) automating key operational and
management processes.
The project would strengthen enforcement capacity by: (a) implementing a third-party information
system to enable improved monitoring of taxable transactions; (b) enhancing tax audit and investigation
capacity; (c) improving collection of tax arrears; and (d) increasing effectiveness in management of large
taxpayers.
The project would promote professional integrity and skills by: (a) establishing a clear code of ethics and
conduct; (b) improving the incentive structure; (c) implementing strategies and business processes that
reduce the opportunity for breeches in professional ethics; (d) strengthening human resource
management; (e) training managers and staff in different functional areas; and (f) creating a professional
development infrastructure for continuous upgrading of skills.
The project would improve tax legislation and equity andfairness in the implementation of tax laws by:
(a) assisting MOF in proposing changes to tax legislation and regulatory acts; (b) educating taxpayers
about the tax code, administrative procedures, taxpayer services, and taxpayer rights and obligations; (c)
improving the tax administration's capacity to administer the tax laws uniformly and consistently
throughout the country; (d) increasing the objectivity, impartiality, and efficiency of dispute resolution
mechanisms; and (e) enhancing the responsiveness of the tax administration through improved
interaction with taxpayers and other stakeholders.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following are broad performance indicators for the project. During project appraisal baseline
values have been established and project targets agreed with MinTax on those indicators, information
- 2 -



on which was available at appraisal. In addition, and as a complement to these indicators, Annex I
lists more detailed indicators that would be used to validate the achievements of each project
component.
Macro-economic Stability and Private Sector Development
*      Average time taken by new businesses to register with tax authorities
Voluntary Compliance
*      Number of tax declarations received on time/Total number of tax declarations filed
*      Change in a ratio "Tax revenues paid voluntarily/Total tax revenues collected" in each
project region as compared to its change for Russia average
*      Average time taken by selected categories of taxpayers to prepare their tax declarations
*      Perception of taxpayers regarding the quality of service provided by the tax administration,
as measured through periodic surveys
Efficiency
*      Average number of days taken to identify and notify registered taxpayers who fail to file
tax declarations or pay taxes
*      Change in a ratio "Amount of taxes collected in a project region (adjusted for large
taxpayers migration)/Number of tax administration civil servants" in each project region as
compared to its change for Russia average
*      Change in a ratio "Total current expenditure of regional departments of the Ministry of
Taxes and Fees/Total amount of tax revenue collected in all project regions (adjusted for
large taxpayers migration)" as compared to its change for Russia average
Enforcement Capacity
*      Ratio "Additional taxes collected after tax audits/ Number of tax audits conducted" in each
project region as compared to Russia average
Professional Integrity and Skills
*      Perception of taxpayers and other stakeholders regarding the level of honesty of tax
administration staff, measured through periodic surveys
*      Perceptions of managers and staff regarding the level of professional skills in selected
functional areas, measured through periodic surveys
Equity and Fairness
*      Perception of taxpayers and other stakeholders regarding impacto of tax policy on business
climate, its predictability, uniformity and consistency in administration of tax laws, and
impartiality and fairness of administrative appeals mechanisms, measured through periodic
surveys
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24127-RU Date of latest CAS discussion: June 6, 2002
This project supports the objective of strengthening public sector management, one of three pillars of the
- 3 -



joint Bank-IFC CAS approved in June 2002, and fits well with overall country objectives. The project
aims at improving govemance and increasing transparency within the tax system and will support
systemic reforms for economic recovery and private sector development as an integral part of an overall
public sector management reform program. Necessity of modernization of the tax service was reflected in
the 1999 CAS, and subsequently endorsed by the 2001 CAS Progress Report, as a priority area for the
Bank support to the reforms in the public sector.
The Bank has adopted a phased approach to these reforms. The objective of the first Tax Administration
Modernization Project was to demonstrate the applicability of key modern tax administration concepts in
the Russian environment. The project consisted of pilot operations in the Volgograd and Nizhny
Novgorod regions (for business taxes) and in Moscow (for personal income taxes), and supported the
introduction of Large Taxpayer Units. The second project includes the national deployment of the
institutional development instruments resulting from the the first project, but go much further by
strengthening the whole institution of tax administration and its systems. Since the fiscal crisis of 1998,
the Bank has been reformulating its strategic approach to country assistance in Russia. One dimension of
this has been to place more emphasis on developing the institutional basis for effective macroeconomic
stabilization, and within this effort to concentrate on effective implementation of reform efforts. Tax and
customs administrations, on the revenue side, along with the Treasury system on the expenditure side, are
the three key elements of building government capacity for fiscal management.
In this respect, the Bank loan to strengthen the National Treasury is intended to ensure effective
implementation of the budget, and enable the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to maintain budget oversight. It
also is meant to provide a transparent system of accounting that accurately depicts the use of financial
resources to the country, and facilitates management and auditing of these resources. It includes, among
others, a revised budget classification structure and chart of accounts; effective public expenditure
control regulations to manage the levels and timing of expenditures; and a fully functional automated
Treasury and associated systems to serve as instruments for budget execution and cash management, as
well as staff trained in Treasury/MOF and line agencies to use and maintain the new systems. Tax
liability payments made by taxpayers would flow efficiently into the appropriate revenue accounts and
sub-accounts. The project would enable timely electronic communication between the Treasury and
MinTax after receipt of tax payments, thus allowing MinTax to identify the lack of payment for known
tax liabilities quickly.
A customs administration reform project being prepared would seek to promote a comprehensive
institutional reform to facilitate international trade, reduce compliance costs, and promote a level playing
field for trade agents, while ensuring that the budget receives the amount of customs duties and other
taxes on international trade in compliance with the legislation. This is to be achieved by implementing
organizational, procedural, legal, and human resources reform of the State Customs Committee,
supported by the deployment of modem customs technologies and techniques.
In addition, a Bank-financed project on Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform was approved by
the Board in January 2002 and became effective in June 2002. This project will create incentives and
develop the capacity for fiscal reform at the regional level in the Russian Federation. The objectives are
to: (i) improve the overall framework for intergovernmental finance; and (ii) support the regions in the
development and implementation of fiscal reform programs at the sub-national level that promote
financial transparency, budgetary accountability, and strengthened fiscal management policies and
practices. An important component of the project is to develop a modem debt management system,
smooth Treasury budget execution, clear and stable assignment of revenue and expenditure
responsibilities, and the development of an intra-regional equalization transfer formula. The Government
and the Bank are now preparing projects to address the need for public service reform, including policies,
- 4 -



practices, and regulations, an anti-corruption-focused project, and a project to develop e-government
based on internet technology.
Under an earlier assistance strategy, the Government prepared the first Tax Administration
Modernization Project (TAMP I), with Bank and IMF assistance, which became effective in mid-1995.
The IMF and the US Treasury were essential partners in the implementation of TAMP I and are
providing key technical advice and cooperation in the preparation of TAMP 11. The IMF has appointed a
senior tax administration advisor who previously worked closely with and is highly trusted by MinTax.
He is providing technical assistance at a strategic level, in cooperation with the Bank. The US Treasury
has a resident team in Moscow, and has assigned short-term consultants, as needed, for project
preparation. The UIS Treasury has been very helpful in the re-engineering of business processes,
developing an overall IT strategy, and in the area of project management. The IMF and the US Treasury
participated in the development of the first strategic plan for MinTax, as well as the project identification
workshop, hosted by MinTax in November 2000, which convened international technical experts and
donors in an exchange of views about the project concept and technical details of TAMP 11.
In addition, EU-TACIS has launched three projects to assist MinTax in three areas: (i) human resource
management and development, (ii) internal and external information exchange, including a taxpayer
service component., and (iii) tax policy advice. In this respect, TACIS activities dovetail nicely with the
overall project design of TAMP II.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Fiscal reforms are central to the Government's medium-term agenda of structural reforms.
Notwithstanding improvements in fiscal performance over 1999-2001, serious institutional weaknesses
and fiscal risks undercut the sustainability of these improvements. Tax administration reforms are
critical to addressing these weaknesses and risks, and contribute to sustaining macroeconomic stability.
The importance of timely and accurate collection of revenue cannot be understated, as the total revenue
collection for 2000 is about 38 percent of GDP, including federal, regional and local tax and non-tax
revenues, as well as social contributions. MinTax is currently responsible for the collection of social
contributions and all tax revenues--except the revenue collected by Customs, which represents about 5
percent of GDP.
The recent improvement in fiscal discipline has been possible largely because of a sharp increase in
federal revenue, which rose to 16 percent of GDP in 2000 and accounts for 17.6 percent of GDP in 2001,
compared to 13.4 percent in 1999-despite a substantial reduction in tax rates. The increase in revenues
was, in large part, due to higher revenues associated with the oil and gas sectors, some increase in
intensity of the tax collection effort (particularly with respect to monitoring financial conditions of the
largest taxpayers), and tax buoyancy from a rebound in growth. Furthermore, all revenues collected at the
federal level since 2000 have been in cash. With federal expenditures kept in check at under 15 percent
of GDP, the federal budget for the first time showed an overall surplus of over 1.5 percent of GDP. The
regional budget also showed a surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP, with total revenues equivalent to 16
percent and expenditures 15.1 percent of GDP, respectively.
While the improved fiscal position also reflects a renewed Government emphasis on establishing control
over Russia's public finances-and recognition that strong fiscal discipline is essential for industrial
recovery-the sustainability of the fiscal position remains vulnerable for several reasons. First, prospects
for sustainable growth and the resulting revenue buoyancy remain questionable in view of the time
needed for implementation of structural reforms. Second, given the huge agenda of reforms and the
- 5 -



accompanying fiscal costs, the budget needs to plan for a well-sequenced, integrated, and affordable
program of structural reforms; otherwise, fiscal stability may be at risk. Third, budget revenues are
highly sensitive to changes in the international price of Russian oil. Fourth, the dynamics of Russia's
external outflows are onerous, with peaks in debt repayments in 2003, 2005, and 2008. In the absence of
an integrated fiscal strategy, the debt dynamics pose a serious risk to budgetary outcomes and
macroeconomic management. Andfinally, institutional arrangements for budgetary management remain
underdeveloped, particularly in the regions, which undermine effective budget preparation,
implementation, and evaluation.
Recent government initiatives to address the above risks in the short run include the development of a
Program of Priority Measures for 2000-2001 (Directive No. 1072-p dated July 26, 2000), which seeks to
accelerate a program of macroeconomic, social, and structural reforms in an integrated manner. The
implementation of the fiscal components of this program already has resulted in improvements in
inter-governmental fiscal arrangements, strengthening of treasury management, a substantial reduction in
budgetary arrears and nonpayments, and initiation of detailed analyses of expenditure efficiency. Tax
policy and tax administration reforms are key elements of this program. The main objectives of
reforming the tax system are: (i) improving the investment climate and creating conditions for achieving
a balanced budget; (ii) lowering tax rates and sharing them more equitably; (iii) simplifying the tax
system; and (iv) improving tax administration.
The Government objectives for development of the tax system in the long-run have been described in
detail in the so-called "Gref II" strategy report, Basic Trends in Social and Economic Policy of the
Government of the Russian Federation over the Long Term, 2001, and further developed in the
medium-term program of social and economic development of the Russian Federation for 2002-2004
(Government Order #910-r, July 10, 2001). Both reports describe the govemment aim of substantial tax
policy reforms and the necessity of these reforms to simplify the tax system and eliminate features of the
system that create obstacles to private sector development. The importance of fairness and neutrality of
the tax system for private sector development and of reducing the overall tax burden for law-abiding
taxpayers is emphasized. This requires a balanced and comprehensive approach to tax reform. Tax policy
reform objectives, which reduce the revenue potential of the tax system--such as the reduction of the
VAT rate, and the phasing out of the sales tax-must be supplemented by measures to increase the
efficiency of tax administration so as to avoid overall revenue losses. The Gref H strategy report-in
addition to proposing a number of legal changes to facilitate the detection and prosecution of tax evasion
cases and adjusting the balance between taxpayers' rights and obligations in Part I of the Tax Code-goes
into considerable detail outlining a number of specific tax administration reforn requirements, and
directly supports a number of key initiatives proposed by the TAMP II project. These include calling for
organizational changes, such as the creation of regional inspectorates, reform of the dispute resolution
mechanisms, better cooperation and information exchange with other government agencies, and creation
of efficient data processing centers.
The Government strategy recognizes, partially as a consequence of TAMP I outputs, that current tax
administration organization, management, and operations do not facilitate an efficient and fair collection
of tax revenues, and have led to widespread tax evasion and frustration in the business community. This
is the perception of the general public as well, which was revealed in a recent taxpayer survey carried out
in Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod (Taxpayer and Tax Inspector Survey, PricewaterhouseCoopers, June
2001). The results showed that on average more than 50 percent of taxpayers are convinced that any
taxpayer can easily hide his income, and that tax inspectors are unable to detect tax evaders.
It is generally recognized that the tax policy has a direct impact on budget revenues and tax compliance.
The Russian Government is engaged in a comprehensive program to reform the tax code that is now
- 6 -



producing improvernents. In general, tax policy issues will be addressed in the context of the
Government's own tax policy program and corresponding IMF and Bank operations. As a result of the
tax policy reform, P'art II of the Tax Code came into effect in 2001, introducing significant changes in
and reducing statutory tax burdens. The Government is committed to support fundamental tax
administration reform, and reforming the Ministry of Taxes and Fees, building on the results of the
TAMP I project, by developing a full-scale tax administration reform based on the Russian Federation
Resolution 25.05.1995, No. 527, to improve tax administration, as well as the Program of Cooperation
between the Russian Federation and the World Bank for the calendar years 2002-2004. MinTax has
prepared, with assistance from the IMF and US Treasury, an initial strategic plan to strengthen the tax
admini stration. The strategic plan was revised in March 2001 and incorporated the new priorities of the
Government, taking full account of the experience and lessons of TAMP 1, and the results of the project
identification seminar organized in November 2000.
This strategic plan forrned the basis of a federal earmarked program for development of tax
administration, which was approved by the Government. The Government is already actively reforming
the tax system and its administration. Corresponding tax policy reforms to improve and simplify tax
legislation are on-going and will reinforce the results of the tax administration reform. The adoption of
Part 11 of the Tax Code, implemented from January 1, 2001, contains a number of substantial
administrative reforms, such as the introduction of a unified social tax collected by the Ministry of Taxes
and Fees, and new 'VAT thresholds to ease the compliance burden on small businesses, which will
significantly enhance operational efficiency. Adoption of chapters of Part II of the Tax Code on
corporate profit tax and tax on extraction of mineral resources, which became effective January 1, 2002,
further simplifies the tax system and moves it towards internationally accepted tax accounting practices.
The Government enacted changes to Part I of the Tax Code in 2001 to remove a number of administrative
obstacles to efficient tax administration.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues. TAMP I focused on demonstrating the feasibility and advantages of key tax administration
concepts in the Russian environment. It did so by implementing pilots to improve the organization,
processes, procedures and automation at the operational level. It demonstrated the effectiveness of a
number of tax administration concepts in the Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod, and Volgograd regions, which
were imnplemented under the jurisdiction of the State Tax Service (STS) of the Russian Federation, with
financial and technical assistance from the Bank and the IMF, starting in 1996. The specific objectives
of TAMP I were to: pilot tax administration reforms in two regions with about 110 local offices through
(i) reorganization of structures and processes, (ii) automation of tax systems, and (iii) staff training; and
to assist in the institutional development of tax administration by (i) building the technical capacity of the
tax administration, (ii) preparing for nationwide implementation of tax administration reforms, and (iii)
providing support for project management.
The tax administration as an institution, however, is still characterized by uneven regional revenue
collection performance, significant tax arrears, and insufficient efforts to improve revenues and the
investment climate. The IMF observed that based on the experience of tax administrations in
industrialized market economies measures to improve tax payment compliance and reduce the incidence
of arrears should include some or all of the following in the Russia context: (i) improving taxpayer
education and services to prevent debt from arising; (ii) amending the tax code to limit deferrals to
exceptional situations, and making directors personally liable for debts of legal entities; (iii) more timely
and systematic follow-up actions where nonpayment is detected; (iv) greater emphasis on direct contact
with delinquent taxpayers to ascertain capacity to pay and to enforce payment; (v) the use of modem
telephone and information technology equipment for large-volume direct contact with taxpayers; (vi)
- 7-



eliminating offset schemes/barter arrangements in the tax payment process; and (vii) more use of modem
technology systems to support the overall debt collection process.
MinTax now has a strong desire to deal with the issues that constrain its performance and many measures
currently are being taken to improve it. To this end, the Ministry prepared a Strategy for the Development
of Tax Authorities for the Period 2002-2006, which elaborates a reform agenda for dealing with the
numerous issues that need to be addressed through a comprehensive institutional development
framework. TAMP II draws on and incorporates the MinTax strategic framework as well as IMF
recommendations into a comprehensive tax administration reform. Focus will be on organization,
management, and operational weaknesses at the federal, regional, and local levels. It is expected that the
institutional reforms promoted by the project will strengthen the tax administration countrywide, while
the implementation of modernized systems will initially taking place in 13 regions, representing over 35
percent of total tax revenues. All project components are closely related to the goals and objectives of the
Federal Targeted Program Development of Tax Authorities (2002 - 2004) approved by the Russian
Federation, Resolution No, 888, December 21, 2001.
Other sector issues to be addressed by the project include: (i) putting in place a uniform functional
organization structure in 13 regions; (ii) improving resource allocation; (iii) improving supervision,
management, and performance evaluation systems; (iv) implementing modem information systems and
IT infrastructure; (v) improving coordination with external agencies, e.g., customs and financial police;
(vi) increasing adequacy of tax policy and compliance analysis; (vii) creating a more adequate human
resource management system; (viii) promoting taxpayer services; (ix) creating an integrated taxpayer
registration system; (x) creating the capacity to consolidate taxpayer accounts; (xi) improving processing
of tax declarations; (xii) improving data processing capacity, including regional and federal data
processing centers to consolidate information processing, and the capacity to manage information
countrywide; (xiii) developing and enhancing the capacity of specialized inspectorates dealing with the
largest taxpayers; (xiv) implementing systematic collection of arrears; and (xv) improving the appeals
management system and requisite administration. (A summary diagnostic of MinTax constraints and
actions under the project to deal with them appears in Annex 11.)
Strategic Choice. Although it might have been desirable to extend the modernization effort to all areas of
the Russian Federation, indications are that such an approach would not be feasible given the time and
resource constraints of a Bank project environment, staff limitations of the Ministry, and the sheer size of
the country. A strategic decision was taken to employ a two-pronged approach to modernization: (i)
countrywide institutional development and (ii) selected regional automation (DPCs). Five inter-rayon
DPCs will be created in centers of federal districts (i.e., Moscow, Nizhniy Novgorod, Yekaterinburg, St.
Petersburg, and Volgograd). The shares of federal revenues collected respectively are 70 percent in
Moscow (central federal district), St. Petersburg with 40% in the Northwest federal district,
Yekaterinburg with 12.5 percent of the Urals federal district collection, Nizhniy Novgorod 9.83 percent
of the Volga federal district collection, and Volgograd 16.7 percent in the Southern federal district.
Some of the key elements of institutional development including reorganization of offices, training, and
many business procedures would be adopted countrywide so as to establish a reasonable level of business
standardization and taxpayer equity. Meanwhile, the investment in automation would place priority on
the regions that contribute the most to revenue collection, while ensuring that most of the federal districts
are covered so that eventually the reform can be expanded. The investment in automation and automated
procedures would have direct impact on collection, audit, and enforcement activities, and hence fiscal
pressure. Considering the lessons learned during the first project, the Ministry currently estimates it can
carry out the modernization of 12-16 regions.
-8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will provide consulting services, training and goods to support activities under the three
general areas of Tax Administration Management, Tax Administration Operations, and Project
Management. These are divided into 11 components: Organization and Management; Human
Resources and Training; Infrastructure; Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework; Unified State
Register of Taxpayers; Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems;
Audit and Investigation; Arrears Management; Taxpayer Services Development; Largest Taxpayer
Units; and Project Management.
I. Tax Administration Management
A. Organization and Management - US$ 3.6 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01 million
recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Organizational structure - US$ 0.4 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the implementation of the functional structure at the regional, and local
levels including the reorganization of territorial and local tax offices and the refurbishment of offices to
support the reorganization. The sub-component would also support further development of the federal
level structure based on the findings of the organizational structure analysis.
Sub-component 2: Management System - US$0.4 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support activities aimed at reviewing and strengthening the organizational units
in MinTax and at the regional level for formulation of operational strategy, setting targets for different
operational areas, developing indicators to measure performance, preparing annual business plans,
preparing budgets, assessing workload and allocating resources. It will also assist in strengthening the
Internal Audit Department and review and improve communication systems between and within MinTax
and tenitorial offices and between MinTax and other related government agencies.
Sub-component 3: .Development of standardized workflows in tax administration at all levels - US$0.2
million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the re-engineering of business processes for organization and
management in inter-regional, regional and local offices including the development of manuals
documenting standard processes to be followed by all offices.
Sub-component 4: Revenueforecasting and tax modeling - US$ 1.0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in developing and implementing a revenue forecasting and tax modeling
system.
Sub-component 5: Change Management - US$1.6 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support activities aimed at developing and implementing appropriate strategies
for managing organizational change at all levels of the tax administration, including communication
strateg:ies to explain the rationale and potential impact of proposed changes to all managers, staff,
taxpayers and other stakeholders.
B. Human Resources and Training - US$11.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.2 million
recurrent cost)
-9-



Sub-component 1: Human Resource Management - US$0.6 million (base cost)
The sub-component will support, as a long-term objective, the development of transparent and standard
procedures for the recruitment, selection, hiring and dismissal of personnel and developing career paths
based on the new functional organization occupational categories. In the short-term, this sub-component
will assist MinTax in development of a salary and benefits reform package to the extent possible,
including building in performance incentives based on transparent criteria for wage setting and benefits.
Sub-component 2: Training Delivery - US$11.0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in developing the actual training that will be delivered to the project
regions and headquarters during project implementation. Training will be focused on the implementation
needs of each technical component of the project and will be provided in packages by experts and
subsequently delivered to the regions.
Sub-component 3: Improve Professional Ethics - US$0.3 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in improving the Ministry's capacity to manage professional ethics by
developing legislation and other regulatory and legal acts related to the protection of tax officials from
illegal encroachments, and provision of technical assistance in developing and implementing a strategy
for the prevention of potential offences on the the part of certain tax authority officials and developing
methods for assessments of staff integrity and the fair treatment of the taxpayers, including development
of the code of ethics.
C. Infrastructure - US$111.0 million (base cost, including US$ 7.7 million recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Establishment of the FDPC - US$14.9 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in establishing a FDPC in Moscow through legislative changes,
preparation of physical facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of
functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax authorities.
Sub-component 2: Establishment of RDPCs - US$28.0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in establishing RDPCs through legislative changes, preparation of
physical facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of
functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax authorities.
Sub-component 3: IT Infrastructure - US$50.5 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in the design of a corporate telecommunications network and the design,
development and implementation and maintenance of an advanced information technology system to
support all aspects of tax administration. This component will also assist in the design and
implementation of a human resource management information system and a Financial Management and
Financial Asset Management Information system to enable MinTax to manage its administrative
resources effectively.
Sub-component 4: Physical Infrastructure - US$10.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will adapt the current physical infrastructure of the tax administration to the
standards necessary to support automation and functional distribution of work. It will assist in
refurbishment and overhaul of administrative buildings, buildings of interregional inspectorates;
improvement of storage facilities for tax documents, as well as carrying out activities to establish security
systems for facilities of the tax administration, including fire protection and protection of data from
- 10 -



criminal actions.
II. Tax Administration Operations
A. Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework - US$3.5 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are
planned for this component)
Sub-component 1: Legal and Regulatory Framework - US$3.0 million (base cost)
This sub-component would support Ministry of Finance in the development comprehensive tax policy in
Russia. It would also assist the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxes and Fees in reviewing
current tax legal and regulatory framework and preparing proposals for introducing amendments to legal
and regulatory acts, as well as drafting new legislative and regulatory acts to take into account short- and
long-term policy priorities. The component would assist in improving consistency between various legal
and regulatory acts and in harmonizing laws and rules at federal, regional and local levels. It would also
assist in simplifying procedures and ensuring the tax administration has sufficient powers to administer
tax laws.
Sub-component 2: Appeals - US$ 0.5 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in strengthening the overall appeals system through carrying out
informational campaigns for taxpayers relating to the new system; conducting experiencing-sharing
meetings with the judiciary to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the court appeals system,
specifically what court procedures can be undertaken when tax decisions are appealed; and the
development of a database of precedents from court decisions of tax cases that can be used to help
MinTax decide what cases to pursue in court and and how to prosecute them.
B. Unified State Register of Taxpayers - US$1.1 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1 million
recurrent cost)
This component will support the software development and implementation to improve the Unified State
Register of Taxpayers, including reviewing and proposing changes to legislation and regulations to
require the application of a taxpayer identification number (TIN) to specific economic transactions.
C. Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 6.7 million (base
cost, including US$ 0.3 million recurrent cost)
Sub-comiponent 1: Electronicfiling - US$5.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support preparing requirements analysis and specifications, developing and
implementing a system for e-filing. The component will also assist in devising incentives for taxpayers to
use e-filing, and carrying out conmmunication campaigns and training of taxpayers to encourage e-filing.
Sub-com ponent 2: Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 1.3 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in the development of the architecture of the system for data interchange
with the treasury system, as well as the procurement of software, hardware, and telecommunications
services.
D. Audit and Investigation - US $7.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1 million recurrent cost)
This component will help strengthen the audit capacity of MinTax through the development of a
third-patty information system, development and implementation of computerized desk and field audit
systems, development and implementation of a computerized system for selection of field audit cases,
- 11 -



piloting the system for checking VAT invoices, strengthening intelligence and investigation operations
and cooperation with financial police, as well as implementing a system for processing and accumulating
data on citizen incomes and property.
E. Arrears Management - US $1.1 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)
This component will support activities to improve the techniques and procedures for recovery of tax
arrears, assist in improving the data exchange system with the Bank of Russia to retrieve data on the
amount of arrears accumulated by problem banks, review and implement the arrears management
information system and policy, and develop guidelines and procedures to write off uncollectible arrears.
F. Taxpayer Services Development - US $1.8 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01 million
recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Develop the conceptfor a comprehensive tax education system for RF citizens -
US$ 0.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in designing a national strategy for production and dissemination of
educational materials related to taxation.
Sub-component 2: Taxpayer information and consultancy service - US$1.6 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the development of taxpayer information and consultancy services
including the development of service standards for the whole country and explanatory materials to guide
taxpayers in compliance with tax laws. It will further assist in the design and implementation of portals
and web sites of MinTax and its regional departments for disseminating materia's on current tax
legislation issues.
Sub-component 3: Introduction of the self-assessment principlefor thefiling of tax returns and
related documents - US$0.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in simplifying and unifying tax forms while ensuring that data necessary
for auditing and reconciliation of tax returns is provided by taxpayers, and in developing easily
understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.
G. Largest Taxpayer Units - US $0.7 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)
This component will develop methodologies for effective management of the largest taxpayers, including
an analysis of the organizational characteristics of these enterprises and the impact of their restructuring
on the tax base and tax revenues, as well as develop and implement methods and software for forecasting
the revenues and tax burden of these taxpayers.
111. Project Management - US $4.0 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)
Sub-component 1: Project Management - US$3.7 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in managing project implementation and cover the costs of project
management, including Project Advisor.
Sub-component 2: Development of an evaluation system to assess the effectiveness of activities carried
out in the Tax Administration Modernization Project - US$0.4 million (base cost)
- 12-



This sub-component will assist in analysis of the implementation progress based on the reference
assessments and introduction of proposals aimed at increasing effectiveness of the activities. Periodic
surveys of taxpayers, managers and staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders will also be conducted to
solicit their perceptions about improvements made in the tax administration, to identify continuing
problems, and to propose measures that might be taken to improve agency performance.
.    ,    -     $ a i      Fi-.  -   --J  S idicative  Bank-  %of
~~ ~~~             ~    ~   ~   :SJ~~~~~ ~~cost~ 7%1f.    &anifcinig ~Bink-6
.ra,.jt '~ I t-~4j~ <'     4 .~%~i'~-~       I   !I~j~$r )  `finacing
1. Organization and Management                        3.60       2.3      2.97       3.1
2. Human Resources and Training                      11.95       7.7      9.67      10.0
3. Infrastructure                                   111.01      71.9     63.91      66.0
4. Legal, Regulatory, and Appeals Framework           3.45       2.2      2.73       2.8
5. Unified State Register of Taxpayers                1.12       0.7      0.86       0.9
6. Development of E-filing and Tax Payment and        6.69       4.3      4.99       5.2
Accounting Systems
7. Audit and Investigation                            7.91       5.1      5.75       5.9
8. Arrears Management                                 1.13       0.7      0.89       0.9
9. Taxpayer Services Development                      1.75       1.1      1.42       1.5
10. Large Taxpayer Units                              0.66       0.4      0.14       0.1
11. Project Management                                4.05       2.6      3.47       3.6
Total Project Costs  153.32    99.4     96.80     100.0
Front-end fee    1.00      0.6       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required  154.32     100.0     96.80      100.0
Note: Costs do not include contingencies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will provide a more sustainable basis for revenue flows to the Treasury and will directly
contribute to macroeconomic stability. The project is part of a public sector reform program for the
Russian Federation that is aimed at reducing the overall tax burden, fostering incentives for private sector
development and economic growth, and providing significantly improved taxpayer services throughout
the Russian Federation, while combating corruption.
A key project objective is to transform the administrative mindset and institutional culture of the tax
administration from a command-and-control to a modem service-oriented culture able to master and fully
enforce tax laws under a voluntary compliance-based system of tax collection. The pilot experiments
carried out during the second half of TAMP I demonstrated that it is feasible to achieve a reasonable
level of transformation and obtain demonstrable results within the timeframe of the proposed project,
with strong management support and a sound project management structure in place. A key goal under
TAMP H is to introduce effective compliance management by a two-pronged strategy: a much improved
taxpayer service culture and better enforcement.
Another kcey institutional development objective will be to achieve equal treatment of taxpayers
throughout the territoiy by instituting measures to ensure consistent application of tax laws and
developing administrative procedures to enforce them.
The project will also support capacity-building and integrity by improving the human resource
- 13 -



management and training strategy and capacity, increasing the motivation and technical knowledge of
staff, and reducing motives and opportunities for corruption.
In particular, TAMP II will support:
*   Improvements in the organizational structure of the tax administration to increase the efficiency
and integrity of revenue collection
*   Improvements in taxpayer advisory services to create the necessary conditions to introduce
voluntary compliance-based declaration of tax liabilities
*   Strengthened institutional accountability mechanisms, increased administrative integrity, and
improved appeals and dispute resolution environment to promote an honest, fair, and equitable
relationship between the tax administration and society
*   Improvements in tax policy and tax legislation to ensure predictability and consistency of tax
laws and regulations and contribute to better the business development climate
* Strengthened institutional capacity to carry out the key functional tasks of taxpayer audit and
arrears collection as part of a compliance management strategy
*   Improved exchange of information and dialogue with other stakeholders in the public and private
sector to reduce the opportunities for tax evasion and improve both feedback mechanisms and the
ability to respond to taxpayer concerns
*   Improved ability of MinTax headquarters, regional and local managers to ensure a more
effective, results-oriented operation of the tax administration
*   Introduction of more efficient tax payment processing, which will be supplemented by the
country-wide automation of govermment financial transactions to be implemented under the
Treasury Modemization project
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of TAMP II will accrue to the citizens of the Russian Federation in the form of more stable
and predictable revenue flows. This, in tum, should promote better economic and financial management
of public resources based on improved collection of social expenditures, as well as stimulation of
productivity through stronger business incentives, accompanied by a commensurate reduction in informal
economic activity.
Taxpayers will benefit from reduced compliance costs and a possible overall reduction of the tax burden
for honest or complying taxpayers as a result of increased compliance rates. The project is intended to
spread the tax burden more evenly, and the burden for noncompliant taxpayers actually increasing, as
evasion becomes more costly and time-consuming. Development of tax policy will improve business
climate by increasing predictability of tax legislation and reduction of inconsistencies between different
laws and regulations that would make it easier for the taxpayers to understand and apply tax laws.
Taxpayers will also benefit from improved taxpayer services, access to better information from the tax
administration, and elimination of time spent in queues to file tax retums. Taxpayers' rights will be
strengthened through more efficient and equitable appeals processes.
- 14 -



In addition, compliant businesses and the self-employed will benefit from quicker processing of tax
refunds, faster registration processes, and by suffering less from competition from underground business
activities. Honest tax inspectors also will benefit from improvements in internal integrity and
professional development opportunities created by the project. In addition, there will be greater
incentives for private sector development in light of clearer "rules of the game" that should lead to a more
favorable investment climate.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
TAMP II will change dramatically the way MinTax conducts its management and operations, as well as
the way it relates to taxpayers and other economic agents. Because it will impose extensive change
management requirements affecting all areas of MinTax business, the project will be personally led by
the Minister of Taxes and Fees, who will chair a Steering Committee consisting of key members of his
staff, regional representatives, and representatives of key government agencies, including the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MOEDT). The Minister of
Taxes and Fees will nominate as Project Director one of the Deputy Ministers, who will have overall
responsibility for project implementation.
A Modernization Department, responding directly to the Minister, has been created at Headquarters with
27 staff to concentrate exclusively on the day-to-day management of modernization of the Ministry. To
ensure adequate coordination of project activities, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be created in
the Ministry. The PCU will be chaired by the Head of the Modernization Department and comprise heads
or deputy heads of other MinTax functional departments responsible for implementation of different
projeclt components, as well as regional representatives and representatives from MOF and MOEDT. The
PCU will be responsible for the design and overall administration of the project including, inter alia,
project monitoring and evaluation, and quality assurance, and will have the authority to execute
administrative actions necessary to implement the project. To date, no special administrative authority
has been given to either the Modernization Department or its Head. This will be included in the
provision for the PCU, and approved by the Steering Committee. The Modernization Department will
also be the focal point for internal and external relations with respect to the project. Last, it will be
responsible for benchmarking and tracking agreed project indicators, some of which will be based on
periodic taxpayer and staff surveys, and tracking day-to-day progress in project implementation together
with the PIU.
It was decided, that no special implementation arrangements will be created in MOF for management
activities on legal policy development. Instead, organizational structures created within MinTax will be
used for this purpose.
Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF) will be contracted as a Project Inplementation Unit (PIU) to
execute the back-office project functions of procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities.
FCPF will report to the Project Director and will discharge its responsibilities in close cooperation and
coordination with the Modernization Department. The FCPF's responsibilities will include maintenance
of the financial management system, including preparation of periodic financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) and ensuring the annual audit of project accounts, annual reports, the mid-term review and the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Actual project implementation entails the execution of a large number of project activities in many
functional areas of headquarters, regional offices, and local tax inspectorates. Accordingly, special
project implementation arrangements have been created at all three levels of MinTax's structure. The
execution of implementation activities is coordinated through the Project Coordination Unit.
- 15 -



The responsibility to implement the modernization of headquarters functional areas activities has been
given to those areas of MinTax responsible for the specific tax administrative function being modernized.
This was done to promote the internalization of the modernization process. Thematic groups
corresponding to these functional areas have been created at headquarters with the participation of
regional staff. The heads of the Thematic Groups belong to the Project Coordination Unit.
Similarly, each regional office has created a special structure to manage the modernization process in the
region. A deputy regional director heads the regional modernization structure. The structure includes a
Regional Coordination Committee that coordinates the modernization activities at the regional office and
at the tax inspectorates. It also includes a Project Management Unit that provides the logistical and
technical support to all modernization activities in the region, with an average of 10 to 12 staff.
At the local level, each of the targeted tax inspectorates has also created a special structure to manage the
modernization process. The head of the local inspectorate has been put in charge of the local
modernization activities. The project modernization management structure at the local level consists of
six staff per local inspectorate.
Access to international best practice is of fundamental importance to the success of the project. During
this process, every effort will be made to seek technical assistance from donors, particularly those with
tax administrations that exhibit pockets of excellence. The Modernization Department will coordinate
with donors operating within the context of the project to ensure consistency of approach and avoid
duplication. Donors currently include, among others, the EU, US Treasury, Denmark, and USAID. In
April 2002, MinTax has organized a Donors' meeting, when assistance and conmnitment was sought in a
manner fully consistent and coordinated within the project concept and framework. The Modernization
Department will be fully involved in coordination of resulting technical assistance, calling on the Bank
for quality assurance as needed.
The project organization arrangements necessary to support the operation will be presented in detail in
Project Operations Manual to be prepared and agreed with the Bank prior to the Board Presentation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Ministry and the Bank considered four alternatives, three of which were rejected.
First alternative considered: The first alternative considered was to continue along the lines of the first
Tax Administration Modernization Project. Under this alternative, the project would concentrate on
creation of an adequate automation infrastructure for the Ministry, based on RDPCs, by deploying the
new business processes successfully developed and implemented in Volgograd, throughout the country.
This alternative had a strong appeal to the Ministry because, as a natural extension of the first project, it
would have been well focused and relatively easy to manage. Moreover, the Ministry already had in
place an effective project management structure that could be easily upgraded to manage further regional
and local tax office modernization. Also, there was evidence that automation was an effective tool to
promote overall modernization. This alternative was rejected because the TAMP I pilot project
demonstrated that a full reorganization of headquarters was required to support the functional
organization model adopted by pilot local and regional offices. Moreover, the Ministry and the Bank
would forego the opportunity to address a number of serious systemic weaknesses of the tax
- 16 -



administration management system pointed out in Section 2, above.
Second alternative considered: The second alternative called for full countrywide modernization. In
some sense, this alternative was at the opposite range of options from the first alternative, and had quite
appealing characteristics. First, it would have enabled a more uniform and egalitarian tax regime for all
Russian Federation citizens at the earliest time. Second, it would have reduced the risk of never
achieving a countrywide uniform system because of future inability of MinTax to access further funds for
automation. Third, it would have avoided the political problem of several regions being left out of the
full modernization process. This alternative was rejected because the time and financial resources
required would be beyond the normal scope of a World Bank project. Moreover, the project size would
have greatly diluted management attention, and scarce existing financial and human resources would not
necessarily have been allocated to the areas of maximum return.
Third alternative considered: During project concept discussions and considering the long-term
institutional building characteristics of the project, it was suggested that the project team consider an
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach for the loan structure and financing. The two main
advantages of such an approach would have been, first, to provide a stable long-term financial strategy to
achieve full countrywide modernization in the long run, and, second, to permit a slower pace of
institutional reform of the tax administration. This alternative was rejected as inadequate for the
Russian Federation context because the proposed project is already itself the second stage of the
process of modernization of the tax administration. The institutional development being sought under
TAMP II is part of a coherent package, and lack of advancement in any of its constituent parts would
severely reduce the anticipated gains, therefore precluding the breakdown of activities across multiple
stages of an APL. The advantage of a guarantee of financing for the countrywide deployment of the
computer systems developed during the first two TAMP projects would remain valid (note that
management systems are being deployed to all regions as part of the proposed project). Nevertheless, the
added value of Bank involvement in an APL stage consisting primarily of the deployment of computer
infrastructure to low revenue regions would be questionable. Also, the Government has indicated that it
does not anticipate the need for further Bank loans for the tax administration five years hence.
The selected alternative is that of modernizing the headquarters organization so that it can provide the
best possible guidance to all regions, and strengthening the central data processing and analytical
capacity to promote improvements in taxpayer compliance countrywide. To improve countrywide equity
and promote similar levels of fiscal pressure, some key tax administration policies--such as office
organization, taxpayer services, and appeal procedures-would be promulgated in all regions. To focus
the substantial investment required for automation, the project would concentrate most of the automation
investment on the tax processing operations of the regions that represent significant contributions to the
federal budget.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Listed below are projects focusing on revenue collection that were carried out in the 1990's and that
follow to some extent the same modernization direction included in the proposed project. (Projects are in
Russia unless otherwise noted.)
- 17-



1f                         |     Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Low tax compliance, narrow tax base, Tax Administration Modem-     S             S
inequitable tax rates, out-of-date tax  ization Project I (TAMP I)
policy framework; inadequate taxpayer (completed)
information systems; and lack of a
functionally organized tax
administration
Rapidly expanding tax base, lack of  Hungary: Tax Administration   S             S
taxpayer information systems      Modemization Project (TAMP)
(hardware, software), low compliance (completed)
rates, lack of functionally organized
tax administration
Inadequate budget classification  Treasury Development Project
structure, a need to revise public  (approved by the Board)
expenditure control regulations and to
manage the timing of expenditures,
and a need to fully automate Treasury
and associated systems for better
budget execution and cash
management
Thematic issues (focused on, e.g.,  Bureau of Economic Analysis    S             S
taxation) where basis for significant  Project (ongoing)
policy decisions that are likely to
impact savings, revenues, and
expenditures are identified; includes a
component to improve national
accounts
Improvement of budget management  SAL I                            S             S
and revenue collections
Fiscal management                 SAL II                           S             S
Fiscal management and reform of the  SAL III                       U             S
tax structure
Need to rationalize and bring     Public Service Reform
transparency to public service policies, (planned)
practices, and regulatory framework
Other development agencies
- 18 -



Danish Technical Assistance Agency   Tax Administration
Automation in St. Petersburg
inspectorate
US Treasury Department               Workflow Processes and
Transfer to Functional
Structure
EU-TACIS                             Tax Administration Training
Information Exchange
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
SAL Ill project was implemented at a time when Russian Government was struggling with the consequences of a
major financial crisis of 1998. The project's design included too many conditions that could not been fulfilled at the
timeframe specified, including the conditionality related to introducing legislative amendments in the area of private
sector development ancl financial sector reform. As a result, the outcome of the project was rated unsatisfactory.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project incorporates lessons learned from tax reform efforts in other regions of the world, including
those in transition economies. The following figure among the most important:
(i) A tax administration reform can succeed only with the strong will and commitment of the
Borrower and the Tax Administration.
(ii) A medium to long-term strategic vision, owned by the agency, is needed to carry out a deep tax
administration reForm and build the requisite capacity.
(iii) For tax refonns to be successful they must address institutional constraints to tax administration
performance, and not center reforms exclusively on information technology and systems solutions.
(iv) B3usiness process re-engineering and related automated applications must be fully integrated
throughout the tax administration, with appropriate management of the organizational
transition-including human resource and training aspects-as a central part of this process.
(v) Development of application systems software is often a major bottleneck. Application systems
software should be developed and fully tested early in the project cycle, and equipment purchases
made after the software is successfully piloted.
(vi) Performance benchmarks and indicators need to be established for the tax administration in
general as well as for staff to develop the technical skills needed to sustain reforms.
(vii) Modemnization of local tax offices requires their full participation and an adequate diagnostic of
local capacity, taling into account technical and managerial constraints and local tax environments.
(viii) Efforts to control the potential for corrupt behavior by tax officials requires a comprehensive
strategy aimed at reducing the motive and opportunity for corruption, and providing incentives for
integrity to take hold.
(ix) Creation of a sustainable revenue collection system requires both tax policy and tax
administration reforn.
- 19-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Govemment has requested the Bank's assistance to implement its project based on the positive
results of TAMP 1. The Government of the Russian Federation is fully committed to establishing a
modem tax administration based on proven methods to manage compliance, especially arrears, and
strong auditing and enforcement built on enhanced institutional arrangements that balance the rights and
obligations of taxpayers. The Ministry of Taxes and Fees is not only committed but also highly
enthusiastic about rapid development and modemization of its activities.
To this end, the Ministry of Taxes and Fees prepared a proposal and received Government approval for a
three-year Federal Target Program, Development of Tax Administration (2002-2004), to implement a
new national strategy, reform plans, modemized procedures, a new IT system, and training that would
culminate in an improved national tax service, which has been approved by the Govemment. The
government-developed project was conceived in four phases. First, an improved work environment
comprising improved institutional arrangements, revised legal and regulatory frameworks, and new work
procedures would be developed. Second, the basic conditions for modernization comprising educational
and training programs would be developed, a telecommunications infrastructure established, and new
computer systems developed, tested and placed in operation. Third, a countrywide institutional
development modernization process, not critically dependent on computers, would be deployed. Fourth,
deployment of automation infrastructure would take place at headquarters and selected regions, which
would carry out the modemization program based on the framework prepared under the first three
phases. The TAMP II project components are closely aligned to the goals and objectives of the Federal
Targeted Program.
In addition, the Government has prepared the Program of Social and Economic Development (Gref II
Report), which delineates a govemment-wide reformn strategy incorporating both tax policy and tax
administration elements. Expectations are high that the tax policy modemization strategy outlined in the
Gref 11 Report would be carried out independently of IMF and Bank balance of payments operations in
the country.
Although the second modemization project is still to be approved by the Executive Directors of the
World Bank, MinTax has already launched the following important activities, among others, that form
the foundation for project implementation.
(i) MinTax has created and staffed a Modemization Department that responds directly to the
Minister, formally appointed a dozen operational managers to manage the preparation and
implementation of the project's 11 components, and already created implementation organizations in
most regions and rayons that will be automated by the project. A total of some 500 staff countrywide
have been appointed and are being trained to implement the project.
(ii) MinTax has introduced a set of functional structures, using the TAMP I pilot regions as a model,
in all regions, commencing in the second half of 2001. The structures assume a minimum local tax
inspectorate office size of 40 staff. Inter-district tax inspectorate offices are being created to cover
tax administration needs of areas with smaller offices. As of February 2002, over 1,000 offices have
been closed with total staff reductions at about 16,000 systemwide. It should be noted that some
mobile offices will remain during the consolidation, local offices will have a taxpayer advisory unit,
and tax retums will be simplified.
(iii)A decision has been made to introduce, as part of the project, large data processing centers at the
regional level (with special arrangements for Moscow and St. Petersburg), to anchor modemization
of tax processing automation. RDPCs will enable the consolidation of information processing work
- 20 -



and create the potential for major gains in efficiency, integrity, and equity in tax administration.
(iv) A server for information storage and processing has been installed in MinTax HQ as a first step
to the powerful federal computer center which will operate the national information infrastructure,
including a countrywide telecommunications network, enabling comprehensive information on
taxpayers to be stored centrally for tax management, analysis, and policy evaluation purposes.
(v) MinTax has participated in preparation of the legislation necessary to support the adoption of key
tax operations reform such as e-filing, electronic signature, a single tax identification number, and
simplified registration and filing procedures and is currently involved in development of the legal
acts needed for establishment of DPCs.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's comparative international experience will assist the Russian Federation and MinTax in
particular to benefit from the Bank's increasing institutional knowledge in the development of successful
tax administration projects, both in countries with transitional economies as well as in countries in other
regions of the world. The momentum for reform engendered by TAMP I will also be sustained and
would provide further impetus to mount a much more comprehensive reform than otherwise would have
been possible without this experience. The coordination of the Bank with the IMF and other donor
agencies can be expected to provide a solid foundation of support and cooperation, thus adding
significant value to the Bank's role in the ongoing process of tax administration reform in the Russian
Federation. A special Donors' Conference was held in Moscow in April 2002 with donors from the
French and Swedish governments, EU-TACIS, UNDP, OECD, and the US Treasury, which is expected
to provide the basis for on-going support, coordination, and cooperation to the TAMP II project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Aninex 4):
*Cost benefit      NPV=US$ 14869.2 million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
! Cost effectiveness
' Other (specify)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
The project rationale is based on the gains the enlarged government and law-abiding private sector will
obtain as a result of development of capacities of MinTax and application of modem tax administration
techniques, which significantly reduce the taxpayer compliance burden.
The most significant economic benefits of the project will be reaped from widening the tax base,
improving voluntary tax compliance rates, reducing taxpayer compliance costs, and leveling the playing
field for all taxpayers.
The quantifiable benefits include: (a) additional revenues generated by improvements in tax compliance
rates; (b) tax revenues from reduction of the 'shadow' economy; (c) interest rate savings from early
payment of tax arrears; and (d) private savings from reducing time spent by accounting staff of private
companies to comply with tax legislation.
There are many other positive outcomes of the project that have not been quantified. Among them the:
- 21 -



(i) increase of legal business activity resulting from improvements in the business and investment climate
stemming from lower risks due to inconsistent interpretation of tax regulations and procedures by tax
inspectors and to putting 'shadow' competitors out of business; (ii) improvement in the reputation of the
tax administration and reduction of corruption; (iii) economic growth and growth of competitiveness,
which will take place after possible reduction of statutory tax rates, generating higher overall tax
revenues; (iv) efficiency increase of MinTax from re-engineering business processes, better organization
of internal and external information flows, and improved professionalism and performance incentive
structure.
On the negative side, implementation of the project may require intra and interregional reallocation of
MinTax staff, its retraining and partial dismissal, especially in rural and less advanced regions. These
factors have not been quantified but are not believed to be significant.
The following table summarizes the annual economic benefits of the project for the Russian Government
and the private sector (for details and assumptions see Anhex 4).
Annual economic benefits under TAMP II
Benefits,
$ million
Total benefits                          2622.3
Including:
Tax revenues (government)              2428.8
Interest rate savings (government)   X0.5
Savings on compliance costs (taxpayers)  193.0
It follows that the annual economic benefits exceed project costs, attesting to a very high public and
private return on investment. The table below presents results of the cost-benefit analysis, which support
this conclusion.
Costs, benefits and NPV of TAMP HI
$ million
Costs, present value (PV)      208.0
Public benefits, PV           13851.3
Private benefits, PV          1225.8
NPV                           14869.2
ERR                            66.5
Results of cost-benefit analysis indicate that the project's success is largely independent of unfavorable
changes in assumptions or perfornance. Key risks for the project are mnainly implementation capacity as
well as those associated with internal resistance to change within MinTax, risks which will be offset by
mitigating strategies.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV-US$ 13640.3 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Based on available data, the project's financial impact is evaluated for the consolidated budget only.
Improvements in tax collection rates and broadening tax base in the Volgograd region under the TAMP I
- 22 -



project were used as a benchmark for the TAMP II financial impact assessment. The Table below
presents key results of the financial analysis, highlighting high fiscal returns of the proposed TAMP II
project-even if it does not go beyond the accomplishments of TAMP I.
Financial benefits and NPV of TAMP II
$ million
Fiscal benefits (annual)   2428.8
Fiscal benefits, PV        13848.3
NPV                        13640.3
FRR                         61.0
It is very likely that factors not represented, i.e., positive GDP growth, real appreciation of national
currency, will contribute to even higher fiscal benefits of TAMP II. Taking into account the government
commitment to prevent public expenditures from increasing relative to GDP, fiscal savings expected
under the project will likely be shared with the law-abiding private sector through reduction of statutory
tax rates. It also will decrease project financial benefits of the project while further increasing the
economic benefits.
Project cash flows, assumptions, and details of the financial analysis are presented in Annex 4.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
To identify strengths and weaknesses of the tax administration as well as external constraints, a diagnosis
based on the Bank's diagnostic framework for revenue administration was carried out, a workshop with
managers and senior technical staff was organized, and consultations with external stakeholders were
held. Activities ultimately included in the project were those that the client identified as high priority
and attainable. They take into account the current level of technological and functional sophistication of
MinTax and its capacity to absorb planned project inputs. Project costs are based on best-judgment
estimates, guided by the actual experience of TAMP I. The modernization of 13 regions, the
development of federal and regional Data Processing Centers, as well as the implementation of new work
process re-engineering will require careful technical coordination and appropriately developed and
administered training. These activities will also require institution-building in such a way that initial
efforts can be broadened to include all tax offices throughout the Russian Federation. For this reason,
systems integration and management will be at the forefront of institutional development issues for the
agency, including human resource and training requirements that the expansion of new systems will
entail.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 23 -



Ministry of Taxes and Fees will be an Implementing Agency for the project. In the Ministry, day-to-day
project management will be carried out by a special Modernization Department, already legally created
in MinTax. It will be supported, as agreed with the Ministry of Finance and at the direction of the
Government, by FCPF, a specialized firm, experienced in managing World Bank projects, contracted to
execute procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities. Special departments have been created
to execute modernization in the regions and in the local offices. Change activities to modernize
functional areas of the tax administration will be managed by Project Coordination Unit comprising
functional area managers. The Modernization Department will be kept informed of the progress in
implementing their part of the modemization effort and, as needed, ensure coordination of all project
activities.
FCPF will report the progress in project implementation to the Bank and to the Ministry biannually prior
to and as a key input to supervision missions. Because this is a new arrangement, efforts will need to be
made to ensure that no unnecessary bureaucratic layers develop that could potentially lead to delays in
implementation. Proper staffing of the Modernization Department will be critical to successful project
execution.
Ministry of Finance, another beneficiary of the project, will participate in project management through
organizational structures to be created in MinTax.
4.2 Project management:
At the highest level, the project will be personally led by the Minister of Taxes and Fees, who will chair
a Steering Committee consisting of key members of his staff, regional representatives, and possibly key
representatives of the Government. A Deputy Minister of MinTax has been appointed to concentrate
exclusively on the day-to-day management of the modemization of the tax administration and given the
authority to execute the administrative actions necessary to implement it. Cooperation and coordination
between FCPF, the Ministry of Taxes and Fees, Ministry of Finance, and the Project Manager (Deputy
Minister), component unit directors, and the tax agency staff at all levels will be critical to project
management. Full support will be needed to ensure that the many elements and activities of the envisaged
reforms receive appropriate oversight, with clear lines of accountability established. The Project
Operations Manual describes these arrangements in greater detail (see project files).
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement under TAMP I did not encounter major problems-with the notable exception of the
procurement of training, which, although eventually successfully implemented, was subject to repeated
delays. Because of the increase in the scope of TAMP II, and the commensurately large role of training
systems development, in addition to the critical sequencing of technical, human resources, and training
activities in the regions covered by the project, it will be important to carefully monitor procurement to
lessen possible implementation delays that could occur.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management of the project, as is the case for procurement, will be the responsibility of the
Federal Center for Project Finance. This entity has a necessary capacity to implement
Bank-financed project. The FCPF is in compliance with its audit covenants of existing Bank-financed
projects. FCPF's previous and current project financial statements and auditing arrangements are
satisfactory and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for TAMP2. The annual audited project
and entity financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and also at the closing of the project. In accordance with WB audit policy the first and final audits
can cover the period up to 18 months. In this context, however, coordination and supervision of the FCPF
work by the Ministry of Tax and the flow of project funds, including co-financing, are important and the
- 24 -



procedures have been formalized.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project does entail some minor civil works. Any such construction will be carried out in compliance
with Russian environmnental standards. The Bank will ensure compliance in its supervision of the
project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For C'ategory A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project includes minor civil works for refurbishment and upgrading of tax administration buildings
to the standards necessary to support a highly automated environment. Any such civil works will be
carried out in compliance with Russian environmental standards. The Bank will ensure compliance
through its supervision of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Sumrnarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project does not target social development per se, but the modemization of the Russian Ministry of
Taxes and Fees under the project will involve assistance to manage a revenue collection environment that
now includes the new responsibility of collecting social tax contributions. The ultimate result should be
a much more efficient collection of social contributions, which will benefit directly from improvements
in the tax paying culture and compliance sought by the project. Indirectly, this may lead to improvements
in the social benefits available to the population. The project, by promoting a stronger relationship
between taxpayers and the tax administration, will instill more confidence in government, lead to greater
social inclusion, and increase equity and transparency.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders are the Russian taxpaying public, Ministry of Taxes and Fees, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, and the Government of the Russian Federation. Special
attention has been given to the international and local chambers of commerce, which are key to private
business development. Further details are given in section 6.3 below.
During project preparation, the project team consulted with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economic Development and Trade, as well as the Financial Police, and is coordinating activities with the
Bank-financed Treasury Project, recently approved by the Board. A cooperation agreement has been
signed between MinTax and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and
- 25 -



Trade to better coordinate intergovernmental issues and concerns.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation consultations were carried out with regional and local taxpayer associations,
chambers of commerce, as well as tax accountants and private consultants, to better understand the
problems taxpayers face in their interactions with tax authorities. These consultations provided the
project team and MinTax with a better understanding of the issues and enabled a project design that
better reflects these concerns. For example, the lack of easily accessible and relevant taxpayer
information has been identified as a major problem faced by taxpayers and is now being addressed by the
taxpayer services development component. Under this component MinTax will actively seek to improve
its interaction with taxpayers through the development of a public communications strategy that will alert
the public about changes in their rights and obligations. It also will promote the implementation of
taxpayer service centers that will serve taxpayers in their localities and develop and implement phone and
website services.
To measure progress and to facilitate continuous improvements of the reforms, it will be important that
consultations with different stakeholders continue throughout project implementation. The project team
has discussed with MinTax how best to establish regular consultations with different taxpayer
associations and other professional organizations, such as tax consultants, tax accountants, and chambers
of commerce. MinTax understands the importance of these issues and is fully committed to improving
taxpayer services. However, changing the internal culture in the Ministry to a more service oriented
culture that listens and consults with taxpayers is a developmental process that will take place over time.
For example, the development and implementation of a strategy on how taxpayer consultations will be
carried out during project implementation is still not yet fully developed and agreed with MinTax. This is
an area that the Bank will have to supervise and subject to a thorough review at mid-term.
In addition to taxpayer consultations, the project also will seek to monitor progress through periodic
surveys of taxpayers, managers and staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders to obtain their perceptions of
the effectiveness of improvements made in the functioning of the tax administration, continuing problems
and measures to improve program performance. The project also will promote the development of viable
tax accountant and tax lawyer professions to assist the private sector and businesses in general in meeting
their tax obligations, which is key to successful self-assessment of business taxes.
It is believed that taxpayer consultations and surveys will serve as a mutually beneficial exercise for
MinTax and the taxpaying population at large, where MinTax will be able to receive important feedback
on reform progress and ensure that all taxpayer segments are receiving appropriate service from the tax
administration. At the same time, by giving taxpayers an opportunity to express their concerns, it will
build public confidence and support for the reforms supported by the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-       .- '='. .P:olicy:~ -;-'.,: .C  . -                     - .  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes '_t No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes w No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  Yes    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       (J Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  '_ Yes S No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project does entail some minor civil works. Any such construction will be carried out in compliance
with Russian envirornmental standards. The Bank will ensure compliance in its supervision of the
project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend largely on the capacity of the Ministry of Taxes and Fees to
institutionalize the full agenda of reforms in a way that enables the ultimate expansion of all project
results to all regions of the Russian Federation equally. This depends in large measure on the
incremental expansion of reforms building on the results of the first two to three project years, when
organizational, managerial, technical and systems reforms will take place in the six to eight most
revenue-productive tax offices (except for the Moscow and St. Petersburg regions). It is anticipated that
following the successful implementation of this phase, the experience gained and lessons learned will
greatly enhance the probability of sustaining the major tax administration reforms undertaken. The
advances achieved in the first project in the organization of regional and local offices, the design of
functional business procedures, and the automation capacity generated by the project, all have been
sustained very well by MinTax. There is no reason sustainability would be different for the second
project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    i Risk Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Weakness over time of the commitment       S        Project design included early participation and
to implement the deep changes sought by             commitment of the executive management of
the project                                         MinTax and involvement of line managers.
Project implementation design calls for
assigning responsibility for change
management to managers in charge of the
functional area being modernized to maintain
- 27 -



agency-wide support and commitment to the
project. Stakeholder consultations and strong
public information campaigns are also expected
to lessen this risk. In addition, a
cross-ministerial Project Steering Committee
will be constituted to ensure sustainability of
support. Moreover, the goals and objectives of
the Federal Targeted Program are fully
supported by all project components. Finally,
full access to and interaction with the project
supervision team will help mitigate this risk,
and allow the Bank team to monitor it closely.
High turnover of senior managers and      S        Efforts will be made to restructure the salary
key professional and technical staff.              scale of MinTax using realistic comparators as
well as to broaden the pay bands to account for
differences in knowledge and skill levels. This
will be carried out in the context of a joint
human resource development and training
reform in MinTax headquarters and local tax
offices. Performance pay incentives will be
considered as a reform measure.
Internal and external agents who perceive  S       Systemic reforms sought by the project aim at
a loss generated from the planned reform           reducing contact between the agency and the
efforts may try to impede implementation           taxpaying public. There is strong internal
progress through political or other means.         senior and line management support for the
changes, for the implementation of an internal
code of ethics and conduct, and for more
targeted training in areas critical to
implementing the new functional organization.
There is also a growing political consensus to
combat corruption among public officials.
Continuity of support to measures to increase
integrity of the tax administration is crucial to
mitigate this risk, and will be monitored by the
Bank team. Building in a communications
campaign as well as conducting stakeholder
consultations are also expected to reduce
opposition.
Taxpayers, both large and small, will not  M       The project will seek to promote further the
be prepared for the changing relationship         taxpaying culture initiated in the pilot regions
with the tax administration.                       under TAMP 1. MinTax will strengthen its
taxpayer services operations by initiating a
public communications campaign at all levels
providing information on legislative and
procedural changes and by establishing help
desks to facilitate taxpayer compliance by
explaining taxpayer rights and obligations. An
improved appeals process will be put in place
to better deal with taxpayer grievances.
- 28 -



Head of regional tax offices may resist    S        These measures are strongly supported by
the creation of more efficient DPCs and             MinTax headquarters management. This risk
the closure of inefficient, small local tax         will be mitigated through internal informnation
offices.                                            campaigns to demonstrate the efficiency
advantages of the proposed measures.
The Government may not be able to         M         The project will seek a thorough estimate of
allocate sufficient counterpart funds to           recurrent costs and will include covenants to
cover all investment, recurrent costs, and          ensure the availability of funds.
tax expenses related to the project. It
may become particularly difficult for the
Government to cover the personal
income
taxes (PIT) of project consultants.
Past regional experience demonstrates     M         This risk will be mitigated both on the
that the Bank and the Government may                Borrower and Bank sides. Project design will
not be able to carry out Technical                  carefully consider the difficulties with
Assistance (TA) and Information                    implementation of TA and IT packages taking
Technology (IT) procurement efficiently             into account the findings of the Cost of Doing
and with the integrity required by a                Business report. Procurement packages and
project that is fundamentally dependent             evaluation methodology for the critical first
on both TA and IT.                                  year procurement will be agreed prior to
effectiveness. On the Bank side, the project
team will continue to use the decentralized
procurement capacity of the Moscow office for
rapid response and advice to MinTax, which
proved successful for TAMP I.
From Components to Outputs
Full implementation of the new             S        The clear results of the pilot projects in
functional organization and incremental             Volgograd and Nizhny Novgorod, the
expansion to productive regional tax                commitment of top management at MinTax,
offices may be constrained by the scope             and the full participation of local offices in the
of change and process of transferring               transition process can be expected to lessen this
experience and lessons learned.                     risk. In addition, the Gref Report explicitly sets
out the Government's strategy and commitment
to a deep reform of both tax policy and
administration over the time horizon of the loan
(five to six years), which goes well beyond, but
is also a substantial support to, the commitment
expressed by MinTax.
Legal changes needed for implementation    S        A satisfactory new Tax Code has already been
of some of the project activities may not           approved by the legislature, and is being
be enacted in time                                  further improved. Efforts will be made to
identify any additional legal changes well in
advance. MinTax, through its regular
consultations, will explain the rationale for
these changes to the Duma.
Parallel financing for activities agreed to  S      To the extent possible, a self-contained set of
be financed by other Donors may not be              activities will be identified for financing by
- 29 -



available on time for related downstream            other donors, so as to minimize the dependence
activities to be implemented according to           of TAMP H activities on the outputs of
the Project Implementation Plan. Also               donor-financed activities. Quality control
the quality of outputs financed through             arrangements will be agreed with the Donors,
parallel financing may not be adequate.             to ensure maintenance of high quality
standards.
Legal changes proposed to improve         M         Improvement of tax policy is one of the
overall tax legal framework will not be             Government priorities, as spelled out in the
enacted                                             Gref program. The implementation of activities
related to legal framework development would
be managed by the Ministry of Finance, a
government agency responsible for tax policy
development, with appropriate participation of
the Ministry of Taxes and Fees. Periodic
taxpayer surveys which will include questions
on legal policy, would provide necessary
information for development of the long-term
tax policy, as well as identification and
resolution of shortcomings and inconsistencies
in existing legislation
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None have been identified.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Signature of a Agency Agreement between MinTax, MinFin and FCPF;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Proiect Implementation and Management. MinTax must maintain a Modernization Department, with
staffing and authority satisfactory to the Bank, to implement the project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
L 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
- 30 -



0 3. The P'roject Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E0 4. The following itelms are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
El 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Carlos DIC. Ferreira/            Helga W. Muller                   Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
i  ;_w  -8 is      -; * - & ~:,:Key Performance - - ;Db    Col!ection' Strategy
:HIerach LofjObjectives            Indicators                                        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote macro-economic      o Change in a ratio "Total tax o Russian Federation    o Political stability
stability, improve the     revenues collected in each  economic indicators        o Continued public demand
environment for private sector project region (adjusted for  o Ministry of Taxes and Fees  for improved public sector
development, and strengthen  large taxpayers           reports                     performance
public institutions         migration)/Gross Regional  o Business and commercial
Product" relative to its change reports
for Russia average"         o World Bank/IMF reports
o Average time taken by new  o World Bank project
businesses to register with tax  supervision reports
authorities                 o Periodic surveys of
taxpayers and other
stakeholders
- 32 -



i'Key Perforha.nce       Data Collection Strategy- --
Hierarchy of.;j0bjectiv'es       Indicatosl - -                                  Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Facilitate voluntary       a Number of tax declarations  * Ministry of Taxes and Fees  * Continued government
compliance                 received on time/Total number reports                commitment to reform of
of tax declarations filed  * World Bank project      public institutions and private
* Change in a ratio "Tax   supervision reports       sector development
revenues paid voluntarily/  * IMF reports             * Maintenance of sound
Total tax revenues collected"  * Periodic surveys of  macro-economic and fiscal
in each project region relative taxpayers and other  policies
to its change for Russia   stakeholders               * Ability to adjust to external
average - by 2 percentage                             shocks
points by project completion                          * Continued commitment to
* Percentage of tax returns                          the Strategy for the
that are filed by mail or                             Development of Tax
electronically                                       Authorities for the Period
* Average time taken by                               2002-2006 for modernization
selected categories of                                of the tax administration
taxpayers to prepare their tax
declarations
* Perception of taxpayers
regarding the quality of
service provided by the tax
administration, measured
through periodic surveys
Increase administrative    * Average number of days   * Ministry of Taxes and Fees
efficiency                taken to notify registered  reports
taxpayers who fail to pay taxes * Ministry of Finance reports
on time                    * World Bank project
* Change in a ratio "Amount  supervision reports
of taxes collected in each  * IMF reports
project region (adjusted for
large taxpayers migration)/
Number of tax administration
civil servants" in all project
regions relative to its change
for Russia average - by 6.5
percentage points, and in each
project region the ratio should
be higher than Russia average
by project completion
* Change in a ratio "Total
amount of tax revenues
collected in all project regions
(adjusted for large taxpayers
migration)/Total current
expenditure of regional
departments of Ministry of
Taxes and Fees" relative to its
change for Russia average - by
11.3 percentage points by
project completion
- 33 -



Strengthen enforcement     o Ratio "Additional taxes  o Ministry of Taxes and Fees
capacity                   collected after tax        reports
audits/Number of tax audits  o World Bank project
conducted" in all project  supervision reports
regions relative to Russia  o IMF reports
average - higher by 10 percent
and be not less than Russia
average in each project region
by project completion
o Ratio "Annual net change in
amount of tax arrears in each
project region/Total amount of
tax arrears at the beginning of
the year" as compared to
nominal growth of Regional
Domestic Product and the
same ratio for Russia average"
Enhance professional integrity o Perception of taxpayers and o Periodic surveys of
and skills                 other stakeholders regarding  taxpayers and other
the level of integrity of tax  stakeholders
administration staff, as   o Periodic surveys of
measured through periodic  managers and staff of tax
surveys                    administration
o Perception of managers and o Ministry of Taxes and Fees
staff regarding the level of  progress reports
professional skills in different o World Bank project
functional areas, as measured  supervision reports
through periodic surveys
Improve tax legislation and  o Perception of taxpayers and o Periodic surveys of
increase fairness in the   other stakeholders regarding  taxpayers and other
administration of the tax laws  impact of tax policy on  stakeholders
business climate, its
predictability, uniformity and
consistency in administration
of tax laws, and impartiality
and fairness of appellate
mechanisms
-34 -



-  -  '     KePeformiance'        'tDataColiecton Strategy.,
Hierachy!f ObjectiyQs1 .          r iicato                               ,U-     Critical'Assumptinsl
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I Functional organization is  * Organizational structure at  * Annual Operational Plans  * Sustained commitment to
introduced at all levels of the  the Federal level adjusted to  * Project Management  improvement in the
tax administration; adequate:  anchor the reorganization of  Reports            performance of the tax
management systems are in  regional and local offices  * World Bank project     administration at the political,
place                      along functional lines    supervision reports        managerial, professional and
* Functional organizational  * Mid-Term Review       technical levels
structure implemented      * Taxpayer surveys        * Continued involvement of
throughout the country     * Consultant outputs       high level officials of the
* Small local offices                                 MinTax and regional and local
consolidated                                          offices in oversight and
* Improved management                                implementation of project
systems relating to                                  initiatives
accountability and authority,                         * Effective change
monitoring and evaluation,                            management to build
intemal control and integrity                        ownership for the reforms and
implemented                                           minimize resistance from
* Standardized workflows, in                          managers, staff, taxpayers and
accordance with well                                  other stakeholders
re-engineered business                                * Government commitment
processes, implemented                                and fiscal ability to enhance
* Improved revenue                                   salaries and incentives of
forecasting models and                                MinTax staff to foster
methodologies implemented                             improved integrity and
increase the ability to attract
and retain requisite skills
* Willingness of Government
to implement modern human
resource management policies
and practices in MinTax to
create a meritocratic,
professional, performance-
oriented tax service
* Legal changes required for
implementation of project
activities accepted by the
Duma and enacted in a timely
mariner
2. Human resource          * National long-term training
management and training    strategy developed and
capacity of MinTax developed implemented
* Institutional arrangements
for continuous upgrading of
skills designed and
implemented
* Training provided to
managers and staff in different
functional areas as detailed in
Project Implementation Plan
(PIP)
- 35 -



o Strategy for prevention of
corruption implemented
o Code of Ethics implemented
o New salary and incentives
policy designed and
implemented
o Improved policies and
systems for recruitment,
promotion, rotation,
performance evaluation,
discipline and professional
development implemented
3. Necessary IT,           o Processing of tax
communication, and physical declarations increasingly
infrastructure supporting the  through six established Data
modemization of the tax    Processing Centers
service in place           o Communications network
implemented making
electronic information
exchange possible within the
tax administration
o Computer systems to
support business processes
implemented
o IT capacity at the federal,
regional and local levels
enhanced in accordance with
the PIP
4. Legal and regulatory    o Appropriate changes in the
framework developed in line  legal regulatory framework
with the modemization      made to support reforms
process and used throughout  introduced by the project
the country in a consistent  o Long-term tax policy is
manner                         improved
o tax and regulatory
framework is improved
and promotes favorable
business climate
o New administrative appeals
system fully functional,
evaluated, and revised if
necessary
o Legal database of court
decisions implemented and
available countrywide
5. Unified State Register of  o Unified State Register of
Taxpayers                  Taxpayers enhanced and fully
implemented for countrywide
use
6. Electronic filing and tax  o Electronic filing system
payment accounting systems  implemented
- 36 -



developed in participating  * Tax payment accounting
regions                   system implemented with
Treasury interface
7. Data exchange between  * Third-party information
MinTax and third-party    system implemented
agencies improved; modem  * New systems implemented
systems for desk and field  for:
audits developed and          * Desk audits
implemented                   * Selection of cases for
field audits
* Conducting field audits
* Checking of VAT
invoices
* Processing and
accumulating data on
income and property of
individuals for means
testing
* Cooperation and
coordination with Financial
Police in investigation of cases
of tax fraud improved
8. Improved arrears       * New arrears management
management                system implemented
9. Taxpayer services      * Informational materials
developed to facilitate   relating to taxation produced
voluntary compliance      and disseminated
* Appropriate additions to
regular academic curricula
made
* Taxpayer advisory services
improved
* Taxpayer service standards
developed and implemented
* Portals and websites of
MinTax and regional
administrations improved and
implemented
* Taxpayer education
campaigns implemented on
specific topics
10. More efficient        * Improved methodologies for
administration of Large   more effective management of
Taxpayer Units            large taxpayers implemented
11. Project rnanaged      * Good quality Annual
efficiently; implementation  Operational Plans prepared on
progress monitored and    time
evaluated on time         * Good quality, semi-annual
Project Management Reports
- 37 -



prepared in advance of
supervision missions
o Procurement carried out in a
timely manner and in
accordance with Bank
Guidelines
o Project financial
management carried out in
accordance with Bank
Guidelines
o Project audit conducted in a
timely manner by independent
auditors
- 38 -



-- Key Performance-         DaaClletlo     Stra   i   .
Hiirarcy ;of Objecive s  r-L'.. dI'icara -c       : MD ;   Colltton S-r  ySU                   t   s
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Organization and       US$3.60 million'           * Annual Operational Plans  * Sustained commitment to
Management                                                                      implementation of project
activities at the political,
managerial, professional and
technical levels
2. Human Resources and     US$11.95 millionu          * Project Management      * Adequate allocation of
Training                                             Reports                    funds for the project in the
national budget from year to
year to ensure availability of
counterpart funds
3. Infrastructure          US$1 11.01 million%'      * World Bank project       * Active involvement of
supervision reports       relevant managers and staff of
MinTax in the design,
development, quality control
and implementation of project
activities
4. Legal, Regulatory and   US$3.45 million'           * Mid-Term Review         * Effective coordination of
Appeals Framework                                                               project activities between
different organizational units
across functions and levels.
5. Unified State Register of  US$1.12 million'       * Taxpayer surveys         * Effective management of
Taxpayers                                                                       project activities, finances and
procurement and contracting
actions
6. Development of Electronic  US$6.69 million"        * Consultant outputs
Filing and Tax Payment
Accounting Systems
7. Audit and Investigation  US$7.91 milliona          * Procurement documents
8. Arrears Management      US$1.13 million'           * Disbursement reports
9. Taxpayer Services       US$1.75 million4           * Project audit reports
Development
10. Large Taxpayer Units  US$0.66 millionu
11. Project Management,   US$4.05 millionr
These two project indicators will be used for monitoring purposes only. No specific targets have been agreed with
MinTax.
Component budgets represent base costs including recurrent costs.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.60 million
I. Tax Administration Management
A. Organization and Management
The Organization and Management component will have five sub-components. The activities to be
supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Organizational structure - US$0.4 million (base cost)
*      Analyze the organizational structure to accommodate the functional structure being implemented
at the federal, regional and local levels
*      Support adjustment of the organizational structure at the federal level, in line with the functional
structure introduced at the regional and local levels
*      Assist in the reorganization of territorial tax offices to support: (a) consolidation of the number
of offices by establishment of interregional and Inter-district inspectorates; (b) establishment of a
three-level large taxpayer administration system (federal, interregional, and regional); (c) redistribution
of functions and optimization of the number of personnel throughout the system; and (d) transition to a
generic functional structure at the interregional, regional, inter-district, and local offices, with each
function having an anchor at the federal level
*      Implement organizational changes in the territorial tax offices
Sub-component 2: Management systems - US$0.4 million (base cost)
*      Review the authority and accountability systems in place for the Ministry of Taxes and Fees
within the Government and for managers and staff within MinTax at all levels and review and strengthen
the systems for reporting, monitoring and evaluation of performance of different organizational units at
all levels of MinTax
*      Review and strengthen the organizational units in the Ministry of Taxes and Fees at the federal
and regional level for formulation of operational strategy, setting targets for different operational areas,
developing indicators to measure performance, preparing annual Business Plans, preparing budgets,
assessing workload and allocating resources
*      Review of operational processes in order to prevent violations of professional ethics and
corruption
*      Strengthen the internal audit functions to prevent and detect breaches of internal controls
*      Review and improve communication systems between and within MinTax and regional and
territorial offices and between MinTax and other related government agencies
Sub-component 3: Development of standardized workflows - US$0.2 million (base cost)
*      Re-engineer business processes for organization and management at the federal, interregional,
regional and local offices
*      Implement business processes for technical functions designed under ConOps
*      Develop manuals documenting the standard processes to be followed by all offices
*      Conduct study tours to understand best practices
- 40 -



Sub-component 4: Forecasting and tax modeling - US$1.0 million (base cost)
* Develop methodology for tax base and revenue forecasting
* Ensure use of the iorecasting results in establishing revenue collection tasks
*   Develop and implement a revenue forecasting and tax modeling system
Sub-component 5: Change management - US$1.6 million (base cost)
*      Develop and implement appropriate strategies for managing organizational change at all levels of
the tax administration, including communication strategies to explain the rationale and potential impact
of proposed changes to all managers, staff, taxpayers and other stakeholders
*      Encourage participation of managers and staff in the change process
*      P:ilot important changes to learn from experience
*      Sequence change activities in a manner that minimizes disruption in normal workflows and
smoothes the implementation of new processes and systems
*      Optimize resource allocation
*      Obtain feedback and make strategic and tactical changes
*      Train staff for their new functions
Project Component 2 - US$11.95 million
B. Human Resources and Training
The Human Resources and Training component will have three sub-components. The main activities
to be supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Human resource management - US$0.6 million (base cost)
*      Review and develop transparent and standard procedures for the recruitment, promotion, rotation
of staff, performance appraisal, disciplinary procedures, career paths and develop a HRM strategy
*      )Develop career paths based on the new functional organization occupational categories
*      Improve the motivation of tax bodies staff (including the payment and social guarantee system)
Sub-component 2: Training delivery - US$11.0 million (base cost)
*      Train managers in formulation of strategy, budget, personnel management, monitoring and
evaluation.
*      Strengthen the capacity to provide professional training in the tax administration
*      )Develop curriculum and training materials for different subjects and levels of trainee, including
distance learning and other promotional materials, technology and associated pedagogical techniques
*      Improve regional training centers at territorial departments of MinTax, including refurbishing of
buildings, development of multi-media classrooms, provision of equipment, staffing, etc.
*      Conduct train-the-trainers courses in project-specific and other priority subjects
*      Consider memberships of technical and professional associations to enable information and
experience interchange
*      IConduct joint seminars with the judiciary to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the court
appeals system
*      Train staff on DPC system
*      Train managers and staff in business process re-engineering to build capacity for continual
improvement in work methods
*      Train executive management in the rationale of new business processes and steps needed to
implement them
Train staff in development and implementation of mass communication strategies
-41 -



o      Train staff for implementation of the self-assessment system and on the code of ethics
o      Train staff in use of third-party information system, analysis of information and detection of tax
avoidance and evasion schemes
o      Train staff in the use of the desk audit system
o      Train staff in the use of the field audit selection system
o      Train staff in field audit activities and use of system and conduct study tours to understand best
practices of audits
o      Train staff in recovery of arrears and arrears management system
o      Train staff in use of the LTU system
o      Train staff in the new administrative appeals system
o      Train MinTax lawyers in representation of cases before the courts
o      Train staff in use of e-filing system
o      Train staff in the use of the tax payment accounting system
o      Train staff in the use of the IT systems
o      Provide project management training courses at 1LO center
o      Train staff on th erevenue forecasting and tax modeling system
o      Train tax administration staff in cooperation with Federal Treasury, credit agencies, customs and
tax bodies at budget tax payments under UTA (Unified Treasury Account) of MinFin and e-filing
o      Train tax administration staff on document preparation of documents and consideration of
materials for refund (or refusal to refund) export VAT
Sub-component 3: Improve Professional Ethics - US$0.3 million (base cost)
o      Improve the RF legislation to provide for protection of tax officials from illegal encroachments
and prevention of offenses in tax authorities
o      Develop and implement a Code of Ethics
o      Develop a methodology and implement a strategy for the prevention of potential offenses on the
part of certain tax authority officials
o      Develop methods for assessment of tax staff integrity and fair treatment of taxpayers
Project Component 3 - US$ 111.01 million
C. Infrastructure
The Infrastructure component will have four sub-components. The main activities to be supported
under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Establishment of the FDPC- US$14.9 million (base cost)
o      Prepare proposals for introduction of amendments to the RF legislation in relation to establishing
DPCs
o      Review and further develop the concept, architecture and procedures of FDPC and RDPCs
o      Identify, evaluate, acquire and/or prepare physical facilities for implementation of FDPC
o      Procure and implement technology infrastructure, including hardware, communications
equipment, systems software, etc.
o      Develop and implement FDPC software
o      Optimize the number of personnel and redistribute functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and
territorial tax authorities
Sub-component 2: Establishment of RDPCs - US$28.0 million (base cost)
-42 -



*      Review and further develop the concept, architecture, and procedures of RDPCs
*      Identify, evaluate, acquire, and prepare physical facilities for implementation of RDPCs
*      Procure and implement technology infrastructure, including hardware, communications
equipment, systems soflware, etc.
*      Develop and implement RDPC software
*      Optimize the number of personnel and redistribute functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and
territorial tax authorities
Sub-component 3: IT infrastructure - US$50.5 million (base cost)
*      Design a concept for a corporate telecommunications network
*      Procure and install telecommunications hardware
*      Design, develop, implement and maintain an advanced information technology system to support
all aspects of tax administration
*      Design and implement a human resource management information system.
*      Design, develop, implement and maintain an advanced management information system (MIS)
for all three levels of the tax administration system
*      Procure hardware required to implement the automated systems at headquarters and in 13 regions
Sub-comp,onent 4: Physical infrastructure - US$10.1 million (base cost)
*      Construct and overhaul administrative buildings and buildings of interregional inspectorates, and
facilities for special storage of tax documents
*      Conduct study tours to become acquainted with best practices of physical layouts of tax offices
Project Component 4 - IJS$3.45 million
II. Tax Administration Operations
A. Legal, Regulatory, and Appeals Framework
The Legal, Regulatory, and Appeals Framework component will have two sub-components. The main
activities to be supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Legal and regulatoryframework - US$3.0 million (base cost)
*      Develop tax legislation in the short-term perspective
*      Develop tax policy for the mid- and long-term perspective
*      Review existing tax legislation to improve consistency between various provisions, harmonize
laws and rules at the federal, regional and local levels, simplify procedures and provide sufficient powers
to the tax administration to administer the tax laws; prepare draft legislation
*      Review existing regulations and improve or prepare new regulations for different functional
areas and taxes
*      Review and irnprove existing tax legislation and regulatory acts regulating cooperation of federal
treasury bodies, credit agencie, customs and tax bodies at budget tax payments under the UTA of MinFin
and e-filing
Analyze and prepare proposals on introducing changes into the current legislation regulating the
computation and discharge procedures for taxes and dues payable to the budgetary system of the Russian
Federation.
Sub-component 2: Appealsframework - US$0.5 million (base cost)
*      Develop and implement an informational campaign for taxpayers relating to the new
-43-



administrative appeals system
*      Develop and implement a database of court decisions
Project Component 5 - US$1.12 million
B. Unified State Taxpayer Register - US$ 1.1 million (base cost)
The main activities to be supported under the Unified State Register of Taxpayers component are:
*      Improve the Unified State Register of Taxpayers
*      Review and propose changes to legislation and regulations to require the attachment of the TIN
to specific economic activities
Project Component 6 - US$6.69 million
C. Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting System
The Electronic filing and tax payment accounting systems component will have two sub-components.
The main activities to be supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Electronicfiling - US$5.1 million (base cost)
Develop legislative framewrk to implement an e-filing system
Prepare requirements analysis and specifications of the e-filing system
*      Develop and implement system for e-filing
*      Devise incentives for taxpayers to use e-filing, and develop communication and implementation
strategies
Improve e-filing at budget tax payments under UTA and use of electronic payment documents
*      Carry out communication campaigns and training of taxpayers to encourage e-filing
*      Procure hardware and software for e-filing
Sub-component 2: Tax payment accounting system - US$1.3 million (base cost)
*      Develop the architecture for data interchange, software, hardware and telecommunications
specifications.
*      Procure software, hardware, telecommunications and other services.
Project Component 7 - US$7.91 million
D. Audit and Investigation - US$ 7.9 million (base cost)
The main activities to be supported under the Audit and Investigation component are:
*      Develop a third-party information system: (a) prepare the requirement analysis of a third-party
information system and the analytical tools needed to exploit third-party information; (b) develop
software and methodological mechanisms for detection of tax avoidance and concealment schemes and
requirements analysis of software; (c) prepare legislative changes and enter into inter-agency agreements;
(d) implement software, hardware and communication environment; (e) establish an information
exchange system with CIS and foreign countries within the framework of inter-state, inter-govemmental
and inter-agency agreements in force; (f) conduct study tours to understand best practice
Develop and implement a computerized desk audit system: (a) review the existing desk audit
system and identify enhancements required; (b) enhance and implement the automated desk audit system;
- 44 -



(c) develop information system to better detect methods used for illegitimate VAT reflmd claims and
develop mitigation methods
*      Develop and irnplement a computerized system for selection of cases for field audit; (a) review
the existing field audit selection system and identify enhancements required; (b) enhance and implement
the automated desk audit system
*      Develop and implement a field audit system: (a) develop methodologies for planning and
execution of field audits including indirect (circumstantial) revenue determination methods and
preparation of audit manuals; (b) Prepare requirements analysis of field audit system and advice on
strategy for procurement or development of the system; (c) procure/adapt or develop and implement the
software, for field audit; (d) procure laptops for field auditors
*      Strengthen intelligence and investigation operations and cooperation with financial police:
review current arrangernents for cooperation and information exchange between MinTax and the
financial police to improve effectiveness of risk analysis and enforcement actions taken by both agencies
*      Improve processing and accumulating data on incomes and property of citizens to be further used
for resolving issues of a social nature: develop a system to enable means testing of citizens, for the
purpose of payment of social benefits, based on income and property
*      Pilot a system for the checking of VAT invoices: Develop the concept of electronic accounting
maintenance, processing, transmission of data on invoices, creation of a database based on information
on invoices, electronic cross-checking of invoices, including the use of international experience
Project Component 8 - lJS$1.13 million
E. Arrears Management - US$ 1.1 million (base cost)
The main activities to be supported under the Arrears Management component are:
*      Improve techniques and procedures for recovery of tax arrears, with special emphasis on
recovery from large debtors and banks that receive tax payments but do not transfer them to the Treasury.
This will aLlso include debt restructuring mechanisms, bankruptcy mechanisms, etc.
*      Review and improve the arrears management information system
*      Design and implement the arrears management system
*      Review and improve the policy, guidelines and procedures to write off non-collectable arrears
Project Component 9 - IJS$1.75 million
F. Taxpayer Services
The Taxpayer Services Development component will have three sub-components. The main activities
to be supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: D%evelop a concept of a comprehensive tax education system for RF citdzens - US$
0.1 million (base cost)
*      Design a national strategy for production and dissemination of educational materials related to
taxation
*      Participate in development of educational materials for inclusion in school curricula
Sub-component 2: Taxpayer informadon and consultancy service - US$1.6 million (base cost)
*      Develop a legal framework that defines the role and responsibility of private tax advisory
services and a strategy that promotes advisory services through tax authorities as well as through private
sector advisory services; develop the means of cooperation between MinTax and the advisory services
-45 -



*      Develop taxpayer service standards for the whole country
*      Develop explanatory materials to guide taxpayers in compliance with the tax laws
*      Design and implement portals and web sites of MinTax and its territorial departments to place
materials on current issues of the tax legislation
*      Analyze existing experience and prepare proposals for establishing a MinTax telephone
consultancy network
*      Develop a mass-communication strategy for tax administration and pilot campaigns for
dissemination of information on specific topics
*      Develop a strategy on how to establish regular consultations with different taxpayer associations
as well as other professional organizations such as tax consultants, tax accountants and chambers of
commnerce; explore the possibility of a special consultative approach for this modemization project which
might include representation of the largest Russian and foreign taxpayers in Moscow
*      Develop/procure, implement and promote monitoring systems for taxpayer service centers in tax
offices.
Sub-component 3: Improve Conditions for the Adherance of the Self-Assessment Principle- US$0.1
million (base cost)
*      Simplify and unify tax forms while ensuring that data necessary for auditing and reconciliation of
tax returns is provided.
*      Develop easily understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.
Project Component 10 - US$0.66 million
G. Large Taxpayer Units - US$ 0.7 million (base cost)
The main activities to be supported under the Large Taxpayer Units component are:
*      Develop methodologies for effective management of the largest taxpayers, including an analysis
of their organizational characteristics and the impact of their restructuring on the tax base and tax
revenues
*      Develop methods of evaluating sectoral characteristics, financial and economic activity, and
taxation problems of the largest taxpayers
*      Develop methods for estimation of taxes owed based on organizational and sectoral
characteristics of the largest taxpayers
*      Develop and implement methods and software for forecasting the revenue and tax burden of the
largest taxpayers taking into account social and economic factors and regional market conditions
*      Conduct study tours to observe best practices
Project Component 11 - US$4.05 million
III. Project Management
The Project Management component will have two sub-components. The main activities to be
supported under each sub-component are:
Sub-component 1: Project management - US$3.7 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in managing project implementation and cover the costs of project
management including a project advisor and audit of the project actvities.
-46 -



Sub-component 2: iDevelopment of an evaluation system to assess the effectiveness of activities carried
out within TAMP U - US$0.4 million (base cost)
*      Develop an assessment system and a list of indicators characterizing effectiveness of the
activities
*      Determine the state of these indicators prior to implementation
*      Determine control milestones and carry out reference assessment of effectiveness of the activities
*      Assess effectiveness of activities, meeting of objectives and achievement of goals
*      Analyze implementation progress based on the reference assessments. Introduce proposals aimed
at increasing effectiveness of project activities
*      Carry out periodic surveys of taxpayers, managers and staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders to
obtain their perceptions of the effectiveness of improvements made in the functioning of the tax
administration, identify continuing problems, and implement measures to improve program performance
- 47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
,:. E_. ----- -- - ,*     ; _        -. *.- Local  --5Freidn'     Total
: -   ~ -  ' ' Project Cost By Component.- :                  ~   IUS$rillion   US $million.
1. Organization and Management                             1.35         2.25         3.60
2. Human Resources and Training                            4.71         7.24        11.95
3. Infrastructure                                        48.45         62.55       111.00
4. Legal, Regulatory, and Appeals Framework                3.13         0.32         3.45
5. Unified State Register of Taxpayers                     0.70         0.42         1.12
6. Development of E-filing and Tax Payment and Accounting  1.99         4.70         6.69
Systems
7. Audit and Investigation                                 2.78         5.13         7.91
8. Arrears Management                                      0.29         0.84          1.13
9. Taxpayer Services Development                           0.69         1.06          1.75
10. Large Taxpayer Units                                  0.52          0.14         0.66
11. Project Management                                    3.27          0.78         4.05
Total Baseline Cost                                       67.88        85.43        153.31
Physical Contingencies                                    2.21         2.91          5.12
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'             70.09        88.34        158.43
Front-end fee                     1.00         1.00
Total Financing Required              70.09        89.34        159.43
l  -- - S - -  - * .  -  *~ .-- - Local    F Foreign . . -,Toalt[
Project Cost By Category :   -          US $miliion --- i S  $million  'US $million,,.
Civil Works                                                20.00           0.00        20.00
Goods and Technical Services                               24.89          74.43        99.32
Consulting Services and Training                            11.60         11.01        22.61
Operating Costs                                             3.40           0.00         3.40
Recurrent Costs                                             8.00           0.00         8.00
Total Project Costs      67.89         85.44       153.33
Front-end fee                    1.00          1.00
Total Financing Required     67.89         86.44        154.33
Notes:
a. Costs presented in the table "Project Cost By Category" above do not include contingencies.
b. Total project investment is $150 million. In addition, financing is required for estimated $8 million in
recurrent costs and $1 million for the front-end-fee.
Identitiable taxes and duties are 23 (US$m) and the total project cost. net of taxes, is 135 (US5mr). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 74.07%
of total project cost net of taxes.
-48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefts
Benefits of the project accrue to both the public (Government) and private sectors. For the purpose of
cost-benefit analysis the following benefits were quantified: (a) additional revenues for the consolidated
budget from recovery of tax arrears; (b) additional revenues for the consolidated budget from widening
the tax base at the expense of the 'shadow' sector; (c) savings for the consolidated budget from earlier
receipt of tax arrears as a result of transferring funds from delinquent taxpayers' accounts; and (d)
savings for the private sector due to less time needed to file tax returns in tax administration offices.
In addition, the project envisages a number of benefits that have not been quantified. Benefits for the
government include, among others, extra tax collections from better selection and quality of field audits,
widening the base as a result of the application of modern analytical tools to identify unreported and
underreported business activity; smaller losses for the budget from court disputes lost to taxpayers;
higher citizen confidence in the tax administration and the Government; and reduced corruption inside
the tax administration. Prudent tax inspectors will benefit from better salaries, a performance-oriented
bonus system, better career and training opportunities, and increased prestige. Private sector unquantified
benefits include, arnong others, time savings from electronic filing of tax declarations, more transparent,
uniform., and clear tax procedures, less disruption by the tax administration of businesses of compliant
taxpayers, and better opportunities for them to compete with the 'shadow' economy and to increase their
market share and profits.
Costs
Project costs for the Government consist of tax co-financing of an IBRD loan, direct budget financing of
selectecl project activities, payment of interest and repayment of principal of the loan and financing
recurrent costs.
Main Assumptions:
Basic assumptions are that activities undertaken during TAMP I in Volgograd Oblast will be replicated
in 12 more regions -- Krasnodarsky krai, Stavropolsky krai, Rostov oblast, Perm oblast, Sverdlov oblast,
Bashkortostan, Saniara oblast, Khanty-Mansiysky okrug. Yamalo-Nenets okrug, Novosibirsk oblast,
Kemerovo oblast and Khabarovsky krai - and generate identical results in terms of changes in key
performance indicators. (In March 2002, in a final assessment of regional coverage under TAMP II, the
Ministry of Taxes and Fees decided to substitute Moscow Oblast, the city of St. Petersburg, and Omsk
Oblast for Sverdlov and Novosibirsk Oblasts and Khabarovsky krai based on selection criteria. While the
change in regions has an effect on the analysis, the basic premises and conclusions, mutatis mutandis,
remain valid.)
For simplicity, real GDP and real exchange rates were considered constant throughout the project
life-cycle. The average salary of an accountant visiting the tax inspectorate was taken as 80 percent of the
level found in the January 2001 regional salary survey for that profession. Recurrent costs were assumed
at the level of 80 percent of expenditures to be made during the project from all sources with a five-year
-49 -



time lag. A 10 percent discount rate was used in Present Value calculations.
The methodology for cost-benefit analysis extrapolates financial and economic benefits, adjusted for
region-specific parameters, achieved under TAMP I for another 12 regions that will be involved in
TAMP II. The annualfinancial benefit was evaluated as an increase in collected tax revenues as a percent
of regional domestic product in project regions relative to the Russian average. In the course of TAMP 1,
Volgograd Oblast achieved fiscal improvements not only compared to the Russian average but also in
comparison with neighboring regions that have similar economic structures. This attests to the robustness
of the pilot results. This is done to avoid non-project-related improvements that may occur countrywide.
The following fornula was used to calculate annualfinancial benefits after project completion:
F = (ATv - ATrus) * I Yi, where
ATv - change in tax collection rate in percent of gross regional product in Volgograd Oblast between
1997 and 2000
ATrus - change in tax collection rate in percent of a sum of gross regional products of 88 regions
between 1997 and 2000
Yi - gross regional product in i-th region of TAMP II
The benefit captures both broadening the tax base following inclusion of a part of unreported business
activities (about 55 percent) and improvements in recovery of past tax arrears (about 45 percent). It is
assumed that it will take six years until this benefit will be fully realized. Flows of annual financial
benefits were discounted to calculate their present value.
It is expected that tax administration staff released as a result of changes in business processes, the
switch to a functional organization, consolidation of local tax inspectorates, introduction of the
self-assessment principle, creation of DPCs, etc., will be largely retrained and accommodated in new
positions within MinTax. Thus, it is assumed that there will be no significant administrative cost savings
generated.
Annual economic benefits include financial benefits and benefits attributable to the private sector from
savings on the time accounting staff of legal entities spend while filing tax retums in local tax offices.
Time savings are transformed into cash savings by multiplying them by the average hourly salary of
accountants using the following formula:
Ecc = Z NI * N2 * 12 * Ts * N3i * Kcom * Wh, where
N1 - average amount of visits a corporate accountant makes to tax inspectorates per month;
N2 - average number of corporate accountants visiting tax inspectorates per month;
Ts - reduction of average time spent by a corporate accountant undergoing tax inspections;
N3i - number of registered corporate taxpayers in i-th region;
Kcom - share of registered corporate taxpayers filing tax returns;
Wh - average hourly salary of a corporate tax accountant.
Most likely legal entities would use these benefits to increase the efficiency of their accounting staff (in
the form of a larger contribution to corporate budget planning and execution), which eventually will be
transformed into higher overall corporate efficiency, as measured by sales, profits, market share, and
competitiveness.
- 50 -



Other types of economic benefits stem from reduction of the time needed for tax inspectors to prepare
and send a payment order to a bank serving a delinquent taxpayer's account as a method of recovering
tax arrears. The benefit comes from earlier recovery of tax arrears, measured as savings on the interest
rate applicable for CBR deposits of this maturity. Similarly to financial benefits, annual economic
benefits to be achieved during the project cycle are discounted to calculate their present value.
The table below presents project cash flows for the seventeen years during which the Loan will be
disbursecl and repaid. These cash flows were used to calculate Present Values.
Table 1. Cash Flows Summay US$ million
Project Year             1         2         3           4         5          6
Fiscal revenues                   0.0     242.9      485.8     1214.4    1700.2     2185.9
Economic benefits                 0.      262.2      524.       1311.2    1835.     2360.1
Total government expenses         7.        10.6 _     11.        12.8      16.9       27.1
o/w: project financing            7.       10.        10.0       10.0      13.1       13.6
interest on loan              0.        0.6       I.         2.8       3.         5.5
loan repayment                0.        o.         0.         0.        0.         8.C
IBRD expenses                     10.      20.(       20.        20.        30.(        0.0
IBRD exposure                     10.      30.        50.        70.       100.        92.0
Project financing (incl.         17.       30.C       30.        30.        43.0       13.6
recurrent cost)
Present value of fiscal           0.0     220.8      401.5      912.4    1161.2     1357.3
revenues
Present value of economic         0.0     238.4      433.4      985.1    1379.1     1465.4
benefits               _
Present value of total            7.        9.6        9.          9.6      11.5       16.8
government expenses                                       I
Present value of project         17.0      27.3       24.8       22.5      29.4        8.4
financing
Project Year            7          8         9          10        11         12
Fiscal revenues                2428.8    2428.8     2428.8     2428.8    2428.8     2428.8
Economic benefits              2622.3    2622.3     2622.3     2622.3    2622.3     2622.3
Total government expenses        37.1      36.        36.2       46.1      24.        34.9
o/w: roject financing            24.0      24.0       24.0       34.       13.6       24.0
interest on loan             5.1        4.        4.2        3.         3.3       2.9
loan repayment               8.         8.        8.         8.         8.        8.0
IBRD expenses                     0.        0.         0.0        0.        0.         0.0
IBRD exposure                    84.       76.        68.        60.       52.        44.0
Project financing (incl.        24.        24.        24.        34.4      13.        24.0
recurrenl: cost)
Present value of fiscal        1371.     1246.      1133.1     1030.      936.       851.3
revenues
Present value of economic      1480.     1345.      1223.3     1112.1    1011.       919.1
benefits
Present value of total          20.        18.        16.9       19.        9.        12.2
government expenses                                               I_      _
Present value of project         13.5      12.3       11.2       14.6       5.Z        8.4
financing
- 51 -



Project Year          13         14        15         16        17
Fiscal revenues               2428.8    2428.8     2428.8    2428.8     2428.8
Econonic benefits             2622.3     2622.3    2622.3     2622.3    2622.3
Total government expenses       34.4       35.0      44.9       23.6      33.5
o/w: project financing          24.0       24.0      34.4       13.6      24.0
interest on loan             2.        2.         1.5       I.         0.5
loan repayment               8.(       9.(        9.C       9.(        9.0
BRD expenses                     O.        0.         O         0.C        0.0
IBRD exposure                   36.        27.        18.C       9.        0.0
Project financing (incl.        24.(       24.C      34.4       13.       24.0
ecurrent cost)
Present value of fiscal        773.1      703.5     639.6      581.1     528.6
evenues
resent value of economic      835.       759.      690.5      627.      570.7
benefits
resent value of total         I1.        10.1      11.8        5.        7.3
government expenses                           I
Present value of project         7.         7.        9.1        3.3       5.2
financing                           I _
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Both economic and financial benefits are expected to be quite high. Even if the project succeeds only in
one region, or its implementation is delayed for several years, net present value of economic and
financial benefits would remain strongly positive.
Table A. Main performance indicators before and after the project in pilot regions under TAMPI
Performance indicators                 Before project                  After project
Average time spent per visit by a             5                             1
company's accountant during a
tax inspection, hours
Average number of corporate                  100                           123
taxpayers per tax inspector, %
Share of entry errors in                     25                             5
processing tax declarations, % of
tax declarations
Amount of total tax declarations             100                           400
per tax inspector, %
Average tax declaration                      15                             3
processing time, minutes
Average time spent to send a                 10                             3
payment order to a bank serving
an account of a non-compliant
taxpayer, days
Source: MinTax
- 52 -



Table B. Tax collections and tax arrears In the Russian Federation
Tax collections,  Tax collections,  Flow of tax   Flow of tax      Tax base,
min US$        percent of GRP    arrears,        arrears,     percent of GRP
min USS     percent of GRP
1997      2000    1997    2000    1997    2000   1997    2000     1997   2000
Russian Federation      100.7"    51.3    26.2    23.4     10.0    6.4"    2.6"    2.9    28.8 v  26.3
Volgograd region        1074.2   558.6     20.0   21.2     177.1   44.8    3.3     1.7     23.3    22.9
Krasnodarsky krai       1564.8   936.2     19.9    16.3    218.9   30.4    2.8     0.5     22.7    16.8
Stavropolslcy krai      744.3    329.0     17.0    14.4    103.8   47.1    2.4     2.1     19.4    16.5
Rostov oblast           1189.2   535.5     19.3    14.7    239.9   26.3    3.9     0.7     23.2    15.4
Perm oblast            2186.6    1069.1    25.3   21.4     58.9    32.9    0.7     0.7     26.0    22.1
Sverdlov oblast         3063.2   1217.2    23.9   18.7     678.1   111.9   5.3     1.7     29.2    20.4
Bashkortostan          2206.2    1502.8    19.7    25.0    490.0   -37.5   4.4    -0.6     24.1    24.6
Samara oblast          3395.5    1281.8   26.8    20.0     369.6   84.6    2.9     1.3     29.7    21.3
Khanty-Mansiysky okrug  7993.2   4657.0    37.2    41.0    254.8   -20.0   1.2    -0.2     38.4    40.8
Yamalo-Nenets okrug    3317.1    1229.3    48.0    30.8    49.8    148.6   0.7     3.7     48.7    34.5
Novosibirsk oblast      1337.4   499.9     21.1    16.3    178.2   47.5    2.8     2.5     23.9    18.8
Kemerovo oblast         1826.5   661.1     23.2    18.2    644.3   90.8    8.2     1.5     31.4    19.7
Khabarovsky krai       947.0     374.5     17.7    14.3    129.8   52.2    2.4     2.0     20.1    16.3
Source: MiniTax
bn S
"sum of tax arrears flows divided by sum of regional domestic products
Section Notes: I. Krasnodarsky krai, Stavropolsky krai, Rostov oblast, Pern oblast, Sverdlov oblast, Bashkortostan, Samara
oblast, Khanty-MansiysAy okrug, Yamalo-Nenets okrug, Novosibirsk oblast, Kemerovo oblast and
Khabarovsky krai.
2. In the course of TAMP I Volgograd Oblast achieved fiscal improvements not only compared to Russia
average but also compared to neighboring regions, which have similar economic structures. It speaks to the
robustness of the pilot results.
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Years Ending
(Base Costs Including Taxes and Fees)
I3W311 1M~~~(PCES1ENT,fATION 2E~RIODW.,iFttalk
Y Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3     Year4   | Year 5   | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          12.8       72.9       31.6      19.5       8.1        0.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       3.9        4.1      0.0
Total Project Costs         12.8       72.9      31.6       19.5      12.0        4.6       0.0
Front-end fee     1.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             13.8       72.9       31.6      19.5       12.0       4.6       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   3.8       52.5      22.4       13.2       4.5       0.4        0.0
Government                10.0       20.4       9.2        6.3       7.5       4.2        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    13.8       72.9       31.6       19.5      12.0       4.6       0.0
Main assumptions:
1. Project costs indicated above do not include price or physical contingencies.
2. The negotiated loan for the project would finance $100 million of the investment, including about $2.5
million in contingencies. The Government contribution to the investment has been negotiated at $50
million. In addition, the Government would finance the $1 million front-end-fee from its own resources.
3. It has been agreed that the source of funds for the estimated $8 million recurrent costs will be the
administrative budget of the Headquarters, Regional, and Local offices of MinTax, who would be
responsible for sustaining the investment they receive as part of the project.
- 54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Procurement
Procurement under the Bank's loan will follow the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999, for Goods and Works, and the Guidelines: Selection end Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, and January 1999. For procurement under the
Loan, the Borrower will use: (i) the Bank's latest standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; (ii)
for IT procurement the latest standard or trial documents available; and (iii) the Bank's standard request
for proposal for selection of consultants.
Implementation: The country has substantial experience with World Bank projects, and the executing
agency has successfully implemented the first Tax Administration Modemization Project, a project with
a similar scope of procurement though on a smaller scale, including substantial procurement of computer
equipment. In the first project, procurement agents were employed to supplement institutional capacity
for procurement. A similar, but more robust, arrangement is recommended for the second project.
MinTax has put in place a strong Modernization Department that will make up the core of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and will manage project implementation at headquarters and coordinate project
implementation in the regions. MinTax will also put in place regional and rayon level project
implementation teams in every region and rayon to be modernized by the project, creating a complex web
of about 500 staff who will manage project implementation. The back office functions of procurement,
financial management, and reporting will be centralized and carried out by FCPF, which supports the
Modernization Department.
It is planned that the whole procurement cycle, except for evaluation, will be transferred to FCPF, a
specialized firm experienced in World Bank procurement. Unlike the arrangements under TAMP I,
under the second project, the responsibilities of FCPF will include, inter-alia, signing the contracts under
the project and processing payments from the special account. From time to time, the capacity of the
FCPF may be insufficient to handle either the procurement workload, or the required specialization. To
address these conditions, a procurement consultant might be contracted. It is anticipated that this may be
necessary during the first year of the Project and for IT procurement when they are complex and/or of
considerable size. ICB bidding documents for the first year of implementation are being developed as
part of project preparation, and bidding activities will be started in anticipation of project effectiveness.
Terms of Reference for the consulting assignments under the project are also being prepared, and those
for the first year of the project will be developed in detail.
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out prior.to Project Negotiations. The procurement
capacity of FCPF was found satisfactory with the following recommendations which need to be
addressed to mitigate procurement risks:
Hiring of procurement specialist(s) on a competitive basis should be completed;
Unified procedure to ensure efficient and transparent procurement must be elaborated and followed
by the FCPF;
All-sufficient record keeping and filing system should be maintained in FCPF, and all the staff
should follow it with due diligence;
PIU staff responsible for procurement should be recommended to receive intensive training in
procurement of goods and/or procurement of Information Systems (Turin ILO courses could be
- 55 -



recommended);
Procurement Manual should be updated;
Distinct internal system to control and monitor the activity of the staff of the procurement department
should be maintained in FCPF.
In summary, MinTax will prepare procurement requirements-terms of reference, technical and business
specifications for procurement-evaluate bids and manage contract implementation and acceptance of
deliverables. FCPF will prepare bidding document, carry out bidding procedures, sign contracts, and
disburse funds against acceptance certificates issued by MinTax. A procurement consultant will be
contracted, if necessary to cover peaks of workload and to provide specialized services as described
above.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared for publication in the
Development Business soon after appraisal is completed, announcing goods and consultant services to be
procured and inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to
request any complementary information from the Modernization Department. Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN) will be published at later dates, as the corresponding bidding documents become
available.
Goods and Technical Services (US$102.8 million estimated value, including contingencies)
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)(US$91.2 million estimated value, including
contingencies). Computers and related information technology (IT) equipment and specialized services
which are estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent per contract or more will be packaged for
procurement following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Computer equipment procured through ICB will account for 65 percent of the total goods
tenders. Included in the ICBs are 19 large supply and install contracts for the design and deployment of
country-wide telecommunications infrastructure, and supply and installation of computer equipment at an
estimated cost of up to US$28.8 million, including contingencies. Bidding documents to be used for the
IT equipment and specialized services are: (a) Supply and Installation of Information Systems,
Single-Stage Bidding, Trial Edition, February 1999, Revised August 2000 or successor document; and
(b) SBD Procurement of Information Technology Products, Trial Edition, or successor document.
Regional two-stage version of (a) above will be used when, and if, there is a requirement for two-stage
procurement. Both (a) and (b) documents referred to above are still in trial phase, and will be used in the
short-run. Over the life of the project, the most up-to-date and appropriate documents available for IT
procurement will be used. Except for IT procurement, in the comparison of bids for equipment to be
procured through ICB, local manufacturers, if any, competing under ICB will receive a preference in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines.
As indicated above, over 90 percent of the investment in information technology will be procured
competitively through ICB. A substantial part of this investment will take place in the early phases of the
project and will have to be kept up to date over the life of the project. A three-year warranty policy will
guarantee proper care of the equipment and software during the first years of the project. In addition and
in line with regional experience, it is anticipated that the initial investment will require upgrading
because of technical depreciation and because of changes in user requirements, e.g., creation of new tax
offices and/or new applications to be installed in existing tax offices. Change orders will be used to
accommodate changes and upgrades as necessary in the short run. In the long run, maintaining the
usefulness of the investment will require the purchase of similar equipment as those procured through
ICB, parts for upgrading, or new versions of software, and the like. The project team will ensure that the
- 56 -



most competitive process is used for these upgrades but the actual decision will be very dependent on the
specific suppliers and products selected through the ICB procedure. Based on past experience, the team
is reserving the equivalent of five percent of the total investment in information technology for upgrades
and proprietary items. Of these, about three percent will be procured using International Shopping
procedures, about one percent will be procured using National Shopping procedures, and about one
percent through Direct Contracting.
Incremental recurrent costs under the Project, estimated at US$7.9 million, will be borne by the
Government. The incremental costs will include: equipment operation and maintenance, telephone line
costs, staff salaries, and office operating expenses. The procurement method will be Non-Bank Financed
(N.B.F.), and the Government will cover these expenses out of its own budget.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$ 5.6 million estimated value, including contingencies).
Procedures for NCB will be used, for contracts estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million, to procure
delivery of (a) technical services for training-when training logistics-and (b) automation technical
services. Both are well defined technical services that are locally available, of high quality, and will be
unlikely to attract foreign competition. This alternative will be used when the activity cannot be
naturally grouped in ICB packages mentioned above. Moreover, the development of this national
capacity and of the relationship between MinTax and local technical services providers is very important
to create the necessary conditions for long-run sustainability of the project. The aggregate limit for NCB
is estimated at US$3.5 million equivalent, including contingencies, over a period of five years. Interested
foreign suppliers will be invited to participate in these procurements.
International Shopping (IS)(US$3.9 million estimated value, including contingencies). Procedures
for IS will be used for contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000, to procure initial
batches of computer equipment, laptops, audio visual and office equipment, and upgrading and updates
of equipment and software selected through ICB procurement as described above, where the cost of ICB
will clearly outweigh possible price advantages. The aggregate value of IS is estimated at US$2.2
million equivalent, including contingencies, over a period of five years. Intemational shopping
procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
National Shopping (NS) (US$1.7 million estimated value, including contingencies). Minor sundry
items, small equipment, network and power cabling necessary to maintaining the adequacy of the
investment in Information Technology not exceeding US$50,000 per contract may be purchased on the
basis of prudent national shopping by comparing responsive price quotations obtained from at least three
local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The aggregate value of national shopping is
estimated at US$2.2 million equivalent, including contingencies.
Direct Contracting (DC)(US$0.3 million estimated value, including contingencies). Direct
contracting will be used for the procurement of upgrades or additional proprietary items for reasons of
compatibility and standardization, for purchase of updates and upgrades for software and hardware
procured competitively under the project, and in any other justified case, such as technical literature,
subscriptions, and spare parts. Any direct contracting during project implementation will require prior
Bank approval. The aggregate value of direct contracting is estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent,
including contingencies.
Selection Procedures for Consulting Services and Training (US$22.2 million estimated value,
including contingencies).
- 57 -



About 80 percent of the consultants required by the Project shall be engaged using Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and the other 10 percent shall be engaged by other methods because of the
project requirement for highly specialized individual skills not commonly available from the consulting
companies. Total consulting services and related training shall account for a value of US$21.8 million,
or 22 percent of project procurement. For consulting contract shortlists, expressions of interest will be
obtained by advertisement in Development Business, and specific notices will be issued in Development
Business for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000. In addition, advertisement will be made
in the national press. Individual consultants shall be selected in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Contracts for Consulting Services and training will be packaged, whenever possible, to combine related
skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the
number of contracts to be managed by the PIU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) (US$15.1 million estimated value, including
contingencies). QCBS procedures will be used primarily for contracting consultant services and training
related to organization and management consulting, information system development, and management
information systems. There will be a total of 12 QCBS contracts, varying between US$167,500 and
US$4.6 million, for the PIU services through the life of the project. Average value of contract is US$ 1.4
million. Estimated aggregate value is US$17.3 million, including contingencies.
Quality Based Selection (QBS) (US$0.3 million estimated value, including contingencies). Two
QBS procedures will be used for contracting consulting services related to the design of a corporate
telecommunications network and to the development of the architecture for data interchange, software,
hardware and telecommunications specifications for the tax payment accounting system, valued at
US$55,878 and US$71,843, respectively. Estimated aggregate value is US$0.128 million, including
contingencies.
Selection Based on Fixed Budget (SFB) (US$1.3 million estimated value, including contingencies).
SFB procedures will be used for contracting consulting services related to the development of pilot
campaigns for dissemination of tax-related information. The value of these services is estimated to be
about US$0.391 million, including contingencies, in accordance with Section III of the Consultant
Guidelines and the provisions of paragraph 3.5.
Least-cost Selection (LCS) (US$0.2 million estimated value, including contingencies). LCS
procedure will be used for contracting consultant services for audits, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.175 million, including contingencies, in accordance with Section III of the Consultant Guidelines
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ) (US$2.1 million estimated value, including
contingencies). CQ procedures will be used for contracting consulting services related to project
financial management, and development of the appeals framework, tax payment accounting system, field
audit system and software, and taxpayer services. There are currently 12 CQ contracts identified, varying
between about US$26,000 and US$100,000. Average value of contract is about US$35,800. Services
for technical assistance may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of
paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.43 million, including
contingencies.
- 58 -



Individual Consultants (IC) (US$1.8 million estimated value, including contingencies). IC
procedures will be used for contracting highly specialized consulting services related to the reforn of the
many operational areas of the tax administration targeted by the project, including taxpayer services,
audit and investigation, arrears management, and the development of analytical capacity and modeling.
Individual consultants will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines. Consultants will be
selected based on the individual's qualifications and with the Bank's prior approval. So far six individual
consultant contracts have been determined, varying between US$18,700 and US$100,000, however it is
not known at this time how many additional IC assignments will be identified. Aggregate value for IC is
US$I million, including contingencies. The relatively high aggregate value of IC contracts is justified, in
accordance with paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, because of the highly specialized nature of
the studies and services being rendered. It should be noted that knowledge of tax administration
operations in the consultancy industry is limited; the most current source of knowledge resides with
specific tax administrations, particularly OECD tax administrations (donor coordination will be used to
the extent possible to gain access to this knowledge base), and specific individuals. Therefore, for this
area of initervention, the project will be better served through use of individual consultants rather than
firms, as there are very few specialists worldwide who have the requisite skills to provide effective
support. As far as practical, hiring of individuals will be transparent and positions advertized locally
and/or internationally depending on the requirements of the position.
Other (IJS$ 3.3 milliion estimated value, including contingencies). Annual short-termn training plans to
support the implementation of the project, including detailed budgets will be prepared by the Borrower
and submitted to the Bank for review and comments. This category will finance primarily SOE costs
associated with MinTax staff attendance to training courses and external study tours, which are planned
in all key areas of tax. administration reform. Specialized training for which competitive selection is not
indicated would be contracted on a sole source basis with specific no-objection provided by the Bank.
External study tours for government officials to interact with counterparts of other countries in key areas
of the tax administration reform so as to expose these officials to international best practice are a crucial
element of training financed under this method. Also, specialized project and change management staff
training may be contracted on a sole source basis unless a competitive market develops in the country.
The total for this category includes the US$1 million for individual consultants (described above), as well
as a Single Source selection for about $137,000 to finance Russia's membership in IOTA (Intra-European
Organization of Tax Administrations) and conference attendance fees.
- 59 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
.. Procurement; Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB           Other        -B-F-      Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.00         20.69       20.69
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            91.23            5.61          5.94          0.00       102.78
(69.75)          (4.48)        (4.51)        (0.00)     (78.74)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          22.24         1.07       23.31
(0.00)          (0.00)        (18.33)       (0.00)      (18.33)
4. Operation & Maintenance           0.00            0.00          0.00          8.27        8.27
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00          0.00          1.00        1.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Incremental Operating Costs       0.00            0.00          3.40          0.00        3.40
(0.00)          (0.00)         (2.93)       (0.00)      (2.93)
Total                             91.23            5.61         31.58         31.03       159.45
(69.75)          (4.48)       (25.77)        (0.00)     (100.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2; Includes primarily civil works to be procured by the Government, goods to be procured through national
shopping, consulting services, services of contracted project advisor, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs related to managing the project, and developing two security sensitive
systems of MinTax.
- 60 -



Costs do not include contngencies.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
. .Consu           lSlcas f              , =`lectlan-Methodd
.5d.tu   CatgD     QCBSqr  .-QBS     SFB       ..TCQ       - Other . N.B.F.  Total Cast
A. Firms              15.13    0.28    1.29    0.18     0.28    3.28     1.07    21.51
(11.98)  (0.22)  (1.02)  (0.14)   (0.22)  (3.18)  (0.00)   (16.76)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.79    0.00     0.00     1.79
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.56)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.56)
Total  15.13   0.28     1.29    0.18     2.07    3.28    1.07     23.30
(11.98)  (0.22)  (1.02)  (0.14)   (1.78)  (3.18)  (0.00)   (18.32)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCE3S = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-  ,_             * Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
.  . . 'F Thresoid-  -  -; .Procurement       - Prior,Rview
Expenditure Ca;gbiy2 :    (US$thousands)       t     -M&tKd                (US$ millions)
1. Works                         n.a.                    n.a.                    n.a.
2. Goods                    100 and above            ICB or NCB               est. $102 m
Below 100                  IS               (all contracts 0.1 and
Below 50                   NS               above, first three IS
DC              contracts, first three NS
contracts and all DC
contracts)
3. Services                   Above 50               See Table Al             est. $19 m
(Firms: all contracts 0.1
and above, IC all contracts
0.05 and above)
4. Training                      n.a.                   QCBS                Included above
QBS              (All activities will be
DC              subject to prior review)
AP
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  est. $121 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The agreed percentage of contracts subject to post review is 20%. In addition, there will be a
supervision mission every four months for the first year. Special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits will be carried out by the Moscow Office as necessary to fulfill institutional
requirements.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursennent
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The loan vill be disbursed over a period of five and a half years. Disbursements will be made against
eligible project expenditures for goods, including technical services, and consultants' services. As shown
in Table C, goods will be financed at 80 % to 100%, excluding taxes. Consultants' services will be
financed at 79% to 100% of the invoice amount. Also, the front-end fee will be financed out of
co-financing funds.
Funds will be disbursed using traditional disbursement methods: statements of expenditure (SoE)
reimbursements, direct payments, etc. FMRs will be used only for the reporting purposes. The PIU will
be responsible for preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis and furnishing them to the Bank not later than 45
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
v   Expenditure Category     -Amount in .USSmillion.      . Financing Percentage
Goods and Technical Services              75.80           100% of foreign expenditures, net of
VAT; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and 80% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally, including local transportation
and insurance related to those items
Consultant Services, Training and         18.70            87% of local or foreign individual
Audit                                                     consultants; 79% of local or foreign
firms, including project audit;100% of
eligible social charges
Incremental Operating Costs                3.00         87% of PIU staff salaries and individual
consultants; 100% of eligible social
charges; 84% of other costs
Unallocated                                2.50
Total Project Costs                       100.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                     100.00
A Front-endfee in the amount of US$ I million will be paid by the Borrower froni its own resources.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against statements of
expenditures:
US$ 0.1 million for goods
US$ 0.1 million for consulting firms contracts
US$ 0.05 million for individual consultants contracts
All training and Operating Costs
For these expenditures under SoE, detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to consultants
- 63 -



and suppliers will be kept at the PIU. These documents will be made available for the required audits, as
well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.
All other expenditures above the SoE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full documentation.
The minimum value for direct payments and special commitments is set at 20% of the amount on deposit
in the special account.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special
Account (SA) in a local bank, to be operated by the MoF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The Bank will, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of US$ 2.0 million. Applications for
the replenishment of the SA will be submitted monthly (or earlier as desired) or quarterly at the latest.
The replenishment application will be supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement,
and a reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
The Authorized Allocation for the SA is US$ 2.0 million provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$ 1.0 million
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of US$ 5.0 million.
Financial Management
Summary of the Financial Management Capacity Assessment.
Executive Summary.
The financial management capacity of the project and executing agency was assessed in July, 2002 by
the Bank accredited Financial Managment Specialist. At the time of the assessment the financial
management arrangements of the project were not acceptable to the Bank, while the entity had a
necessary capacity to implement Bank-financed project.
As of the date of this report, the FCPF is in compliance with its audit covenants of existing
Bank-financed projects.  FCPF's previous and current project financial statements and auditing
arrangements are satisfactory and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for TAMP2. The annual
audited project and entity financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. In accordance with WB audit policy the first and
final audits can cover the period up to 18 months.
However, coordination and supervision of the FCPF work by the Ministry of Tax is not clear, and the
flow of project funds, including co-financing, is also not formalized. Establishment of formal procedures
in both areas is the condition of the Board presentation.
Country Issues.
The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is currently the subject of a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which was completed in FY2001 but has not yet been
finalized. CFFA focused on the public sector, while the private sector was assessed by other studies.
Pending the graduation of the government's financial management and procurement capacity and
infrastructure to a level of performance that would allow the World Bank to rely on those systems, the
CFAA recommended that fiduciary functions (disbursement, procurement, accounting and reporting,
and operational reviews) continue to be outsourced to specialized agencies. Such agencies (possibly the
- 64 -



successors of today's Foundations) present the advantage of utilizing skilled consultants and reliable,
suitable, and stand-alone computerized information systems. Primarily because of other implementation
considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial management capacity in Russia have been
mitigated for this project, by the use of an existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for project
implementation. An agency agreement is going to be signed by the Borrower and the FCPF, assigning
FCPF the role and responsibility for the financial management.
Based on the Bank's current audit policy, the CFAA recommends maintaining current arrangements for
the annual audit of Bank-assisted projects, which involve audit by private sector audit firms
competitively appointed among those pre-selected by the Bank, in consultation with the MOF (11 firms
at present). In addition, the work performed by the Accounts Chamber should also be reviewed by the
Bank on a regular basis and taken into consideration in project preparation and supervision. The
Accounts Chamber routinely performs documentary reviews of Bank projects because they involve
international borrowing and the use of budget funds in the form of counterpart financing. These reviews
are geared mostly towards assessing the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of project expenditure and the
prevention and/or detection of possible waste of resources and abuses. This recommendation is taken into
account for the current project. TAMPH would be regularly audited by private firm, acceptable to the
Bank. All audit reports, prepared by the Accounts Chamber in respect of this project, would also be
reviewed by the auditors and the Bank. All valuable recommendations would be taken into account.
Risk Analysis
The project's financial management risks are not considered to be significant enough to warrant inclusion
in section F2 of the PAD.
Risk   Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating
Inherent Risk
Banking sector                        S    (1) SA are going to be opened in bank, acceptable to the
Bank. (2) Banking sector is regularly observed
Changes in legislation                S    Changes in legislation are observed
Lack of co-financing from the Federal  S   FCPF is a for-profit entity, and can provide it's own
budget funds                               funds in case of lack of co-financing funds
Project inherent risk                 M    N/a
Country inherent risk                 S    (i) use of existing PIU; (ii) use of Bank accepted auditors
Overall Inherent Risk    S
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                M    N/A
2. Funds Flow                         S    Not clear at the time of the assessment
3. Staffing                           M    N/A
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  M   NA
5. Intemnal Audit                    N/A   The internal audit department exist but is headed by the
current Financial Director
6. External Audit                     M    N/A
7. Reporting and Monitoring           M    N/A
8. Infonnation Systemris              M    N/A
Overall Control Risk    M     N/A
Strengths and Weaknesses.
The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial management system
- 65 -



include: (i) the experience of FCPF and its financial management staff of implementing Bank-financed
projects and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; (ii) the unqualified audit reports and
positive management letters issued by FCPF and project auditors during the last three years; and (iii)
sound internal control system within the FCPF.
The weaknesses of the project financial management system are (i) the fact that flow of funds in not
developed yet; (ii) that the system of the FCPF supervision and control by the MinTax is not established
and formalized yet.
Implementing agency
In July, 2002 FCPF was appointed as Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for TAMPH to execute the
back-office project functions of procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities. The FCPF will
report to the PWG and will discharge its responsibilities in close cooperation and coordination with the
Modernization Department. The FCPF's responsibilities will include maintenance of the financial
management system, including preparation of periodic financial monitoring reports and ensuring the
annual audit of project accounts, annual reports, the mid-termn review and the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR).
FCPF is a joint stock venture, established in 1995 by the Ministry of State Property of the Russian
Federation. Since 1996 it is implementing the Portfolio Development Loan Project, the main objective of
which is the financing of preparation of new projects in the Russian portfolio. Other activities of FCPF
include (i) monitoring of the Russian portfolio of loans; (ii) operating of the printing shop; (iii) providing
of information to the Russian enterprises on business opportunities for participating in the investment
projects, financed by the international organizations; (iv) organization of seminars and trainings; (v)
implementation of guarantee operations as RF government agent.
The main governing body of the FCPF is the General Shareholders Meeting which is held at least once a
year. Annual shareholders meeting appoints the Steering Committee, which controls the FCPF activities
during the year.
The FCPF has three subsidiaries (i) Printing shop "Konkursnye Torgi" (100%); (ii) Non-for-profit
organization "Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (100%"; (iii) Non-for-profit organization
"Foundation for Social Projects"(50%), and three associates: (i) Non-for-profit organization
"Reformugol" (4.7%); (ii) OAO "Samara Center for Project Finance" (5.3%); (iii) Non-for-profit
organization "Russian Healthcare Foundation" (33.3%).
Funds Flow.
Is not yet established for this project.
After the crisis the Bank and the Government of the Russian Federation have agreed that all project SAs
will be held in three state owned commercial banks. The only exception was made to the PDL project,
implemented by FCPF, whose SA was opened in commercial bank Probusinessbank. The account was
opened right after the crisis in 1998, and the FCPF did not has any problems with the account operations
since then. Therefore, FCPF is planning to open the SA for TAMPII with the same bank.
Staffing.
FCPF financial department staffing is described in the FCPF Operating Manual. At the time of the
assessment all financial positions were occupied, and there were no current need in hiring additional
staff. The Financial Department of the FCPF is headed by Ms. Ludmila Karasyova, Chief accountant and
- 66 -



Financial Director, and is currently staffed with five financial management staff members.
FCPF has long lasting relations with Askeri (one of IAS providers in the RF) and all financial
management specialists of the foundation are participating in different accounting seminars and trainings.
Chief Accountant and Disbursement Officer have also participated in the recent four days Disbursement
and Financial Management seminar, conducted by Moscow Office staff in April, 2002. There would be
no need for the new financial staff for TAMPII as the PDL is closing in May 31, 2003, and the project
financial management staff would continue to work for the TAMPII.
Accounting Policies and Procedures.
The accoumting books and records of the FCPF are maintained on accrual basis both in USD and RR in
the computerized accounting system called Innotec. FCPF a clear formal set of appropriate accounting
procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation of duties.
The FMR Guidelines Financial Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial
Management, Operating Services, and Procurement Sector Board (November 30, 2001). Page 6. suggests
that in case the project is implemented by the profit oriented entity, the project financial statements
should be prepared using the accrual method. The FCPF used the cash method for the annual reporting
under the PDL project, and therefore, would use the cash method for annual project reporting as well as
preparation of the financial part of periodic FMRs.
Internal Audit
FCPF has department, formally called an Internal Audit Department, which consists of current Financial
Director and two Financial Department staff members, and reports to the Revision Committee. It's
function can be considered as quality control, not the internal audit function, and therefore de facto there
are no internal control function within the FCPF.
External Audit.
No significant issues have arisen in the audits of PDL Project (PDL 38440-RU) implemented by FCPF.
FCPF's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank and it has
thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the RISP, to include the FCPF entity
financial statements, TAMPH project financial statements, SOEs, Special Account and reliability of the
periodicFMRs. The terms of reference that was used for audit of CY2000 and which is currently being
updated for CY2001 will likewise be used for the audit of all projects being implemented by CAPMU,
including RISP, starting with CY2002. The audit of the project will be conducted by independent private
auditors acceptable to the Bank, on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by FCPF
through the Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCS) procurement process. The annual audited project
financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year and
also at the closing of the project. The first and final audits can cover up to 18 months .The contract for
the audit awarded during the first year of project implementation and thereafter extended from
year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the project audit will
be financed from the proceeds of the loan, category Incremental Costs, the cost of the entity audit will be
covered by the FCPF own funds.
The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementation agency together with the due date for submission.
-67 -



Audit Report                                   Due Date
Entity                                     Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
Project                                    Within six months of the end of each reporting period; the
first and the final audit can cover the period up to 18 months
SOE                                        Within six months of the end of each reporting period; the
first and the final audit can cover the period up to 18 months
Special Account                            Within six months of the end of each reporting period; the
first and the final audit can cover the period up to 18 months
Separate opinion on the reliability of the FMRs Within six months of the end of each reporting period
submitted to the Bank and covering the fiscal year
In addition, the Accounts Chamber, the country's supreme audit institution, performs ad hoc external
audits of FCPF and the projects under its implementation.
Reporting and Monitoring.
FCPF produces all financial reports for the Bank with the accounting software, Innnotec. FCPF has
demonstrated in its previous projects that it is able to report on project expenditures with this system.
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats of these would be included in the Project Operating Manual.
FCPF will produce a full set of FMRs every full quarter throughout the life of the project. Draft formats
of these FMRs will be agreed upon after negotiations and prior to Board presentation.
Information Systems.
FCPF's information systems comprises the accounting software: Innotec which allow the FCPF (i) to
keep the statutory and project record both in RR and in USD; (ii) produce both statutory and IAS reports,
and (iii) produce financial reports on the project.
After the formats of the financial part of FMR and annual financial statements will be agreed with the
Bank, FCPF will request the provider to incorporate the formats into the system.
Impact of Procurement Arrangements.
A procurement assessment of FCPF was not completed at the time of the financial management capacity
assessment.
However, the project would involve a significant amount of IT procurement, and distribution of the
equipment to the beneficiaries in number of locations within the Russian Federation. Therefore, the
FCPF will have to establish the formal procedures to ensure the annual physical checks of the equipment,
acquired with the project funds. The procedures will include (i) mandatory annual physical checks of the
project equipment by beneficiaries; (ii) submission of the checks reports, signed and stamped by the
beneficiaries, to the FCPF by April 30 after the end of each year; (iii) sample site visits by the auditors to
the beneficiaries, if auditors consider necessary. All this procedures should be established and formalized
after negotiations but before the Board presentation
Disbursement Arrangements.
Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments; FMR will only be used for the monitoring purposes. Supporting documentation for SOEs,
including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the Borrower and made available to the
Bank during project supervision. Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be
- 68 -



made against presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures. There is no plan to move
to periodic disbursements.
After the crisis the Bank and the Government of the Russian Federation have agreed that all project SAs
will be held in three state owned commercial banks. The only exception was made to the PDL project,
implemented by FCF'F, whose SA was opened in commercial bank Probusinessbank. The account was
opened right after the crisis in 1998, and the FCPF did not has any problems with the account operations
since then. Therefore, FCPF will open and manage a separate SA for TAMPII, in a Probusinessbank, and
will ensure it's compliance with Bank requirements, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment as Probusinessbank is a commercial bank. Withdrawal applications for the
replenishments of the SA will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when the balance of the
SA is equal to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.
Action Plan.
Actions                  Responsible party           Completion Date
Formats of FMRs and annual project  FCPF/Bank                Negotiations
financial statements agreed
TOR for audit agreed with the Bank  FCPFIBank                Board
Annual physical checks procedures  FCPF                      Board
established
Project Operating Manual developed and  FCPF/Bank/MinTax     Board
approved
Flow of fimds established and formalized  FCPF/MinTax        Board
Draft agency agreernent agreed with Bank FCPF/Bank           Board
Agency agreement signed          FCPF/MinTax                 Effectiveness
Financial Covenants.
FCPF will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The FCPF financial
statements, project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited
statements and audit report will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
In addition, the FCPF will prepare the periodic FMRs for each full calendar quarter, and submit them to
the Bank within 45 days after the end of the reporting period. The reliability of such FMRs will be
audited during the arnual audit, and a separate paragraph will be included in the project audit opinion.
Supervision Plan.
During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management arrangements
in two main ways: (i) review the financial part of project's FMRs as well as the project's annual audited
financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii) during the Bank's supervision missions,
review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a
sample of SOEs together with the disbursement specialist and movements on the Special Account) to
ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements. Bank-accredited Moscow-based Financial
Management Specia:list will visit the project at least once a year.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Project Schedule  . .                            Planned          -    -    A;ual,
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     20                          18
First Bank mission (identification)            11/15/2000                  11/13/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    08/05/2002                  01/28/2002
Negotiations                                   09/30/2002                  07/27/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Taxes and Fees of the Russian Federation and the Bank. The Ministry of Finance assisted in
the preparation of the Tax Policy subcomponent.
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD grantfor US$1,043,000 (TF026119) was received and used for project preparation by
MinTax to contract consulting services for the following preparation activities: (i) Study Taxpayer and
Tax Inspector Behavior, identified main factors determining the compliance behavior amongst taxpayers,
both individuals and firms, and proposed measures to address issues, as well as investigated the level of
exposure of MinTax staff to corrupt practices and identified measures to mitigate the exposure; (ii)
Development of a Modernization Program; and (iii) Reformulation of key operational processes.
Grant Implementation and Results. The grant was successfully executed by MinTax. All planned
outputs were completed and the performance of the consulting company, PriceWaterHouseCoopers, was
satisfactory, and contributed significantly to MinTax's understanding of the complexities and resources
needed to undertake a comprehensive institutional development program.
US Treasury Technical Assistance was also of fundamental importance to the project preparation effort.
The US Treasury made two full time experts available to MinTax to assist the Ministry in the preparation
of the of the project as a whole, and in estimating and structuring the project implementation capacity
required for the undertaking. This technical assistance was key to the creation of the Modernization
Department of MinTax, which will carry out the project implementation activities.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Carlos D.C. Ferreira             Task Team Leader
Pervaiz Rashid                   Quality Assurance
Jit Bahadur S. Gill               Public Sector Management and Tax Administration
Michael Engelschalk              Tax Policy and Legal Framework
Alexander Morozov                Fiscal Economist and Deputy Task Teamn Leader (Moscow)
William V. Mayville              Human Resources and Training
Anna Monica Hansson              Taxpayer Services
Ilene Photos                     Operations Management
Yelena Dobrolyubova              Team Project Coordination (Moscow)
Jonathan Pavluk                  Country Lawyer
- 70 -



Karl Skansing                       Procurement Management - PAS
Alexander Balakov                   Procurement
Andrei Darusenkov                   Operations and Project Management
David Freese                        Disbursement Officer
Anna Jouravleva                     Financial Management - FMS
Bhagwan Das Varma                   Team Assistance (HQ)
- 71 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A. 1 As indicated above, a Japan PHRD grantfor US$ 1.043 million (TF026119) was used to finance
consultant services for the following key project preparation activities: (a) survey of taxpayer and tax
inspector behavior; (b) tactical modernization plan; and (c) development of operational processes. These
activities have been completed and outputs by the consultant, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, were satisfactory
and resulted in a significant transfer of technical knowledge to the client.
A.2. A Project Implementation Plan (Project Operations Manual - POM) is being jointly prepared by the
Borrower and the Bank, and will be agreed during appraisal mission. The POM contains, for each
component, detailed objectives, activities, implementation procedures, performance and outcome
indicators, implementation schedules, detailed budgets, and the procurement plan, its schedules,
procedures and arrangements. The POM also covers other activities such as financial management and
reporting. In addition to the POM, the recommendations of the Financial Institutions Advisory Council
will be taken into consideration during project implementation.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Back-to-Office Reports, Aide-Memoires, and Consultation Reports from Preparation through
Negotiations. Procurement and financial assessments will be carried out during the appraisal period by
FMS and PAS staff.
C. Other
The following key documents have been considered in preparation of the PAD and are included in the
Project File:
1.    Project identification mission aide-memoire (November 2000)
2.    RF Program on Basic Trends in Social & Economic Policy (2000)
3.    Swedish-Russian Program - Work Relating to Anti-Corruption
4.    PHRD - Technical Assistance (May 28, 2000)
5.    Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Evaluation Report on TAMP I (December 28, 2000)
6.    Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Organizational Chart
7.    Extract from Gref II Report - Basic Trends in Social and Economic Policy of the Government of
the Russian Federation over the Long Term, 2001
8.    Danish Modernization Program in St. Petersburg
9.    Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Strategic Program for Modernization
10.   Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Institutional Assessment Response
11.   FIAS draft Tax System Review - Chapter on "Tax Operation Procedure"
12.   Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Composition of Coordination Committee
13.   Ministry of Taxes and Fees - Strategy for the Development of Tax Authorities for the Period
2002-2006
14.   Proposal for Flagship Funding - Taxpayer Associations and Private Taxpayer Advisory Services
15.   PricewaterhouseCoopers Report - "Concepts of Operation" for TAMP II (June 29, 2001)
16.   PricewaterhouseCoopers Report - "Survey of Taxpayer and Tax Inspector Behavior" for TAMP
II (June 29, 2001)
- 72 -



17.    C'onsultant Report and Recommendations on Taxpayers Associations for TAMP II
18.    Consultant Report and Reconmmendations on Taxpayer Advisory Services for TAMP II
*Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
30-Jul-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064508        2002 TREASURY DEVT                                   231.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     231.00      0.00       0.00
P050489        2002 FISC FED & REG FISC REF                         120.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     118.80      0.00       0.00
P046061        2001 MOSC URB TRANS                                   60.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      55.95     16.55       0.00
P008832        2001 MUN WATER & WW                                  122.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00     122.50     33.08       0.00
P050474        2001 EDUC REFORM                                      50,00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      49.50      8.30       0.00
P038551        2001 MUN HEATING                                      85.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      85.00      6.84       4.71
P064238        2001 N RESTRUCT                                       80.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      80.00       1.50      0.00
P058587        2000 REG FISC TA                                      30,00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      24.76      12.46     -0.55
P053830        2000 SUST FORESTRY PILOT-RU                           60.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      59.40      11.40      0.00
PoS487        1999 STATE STATS SYST                                 30.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      26.79      12.79     -0.44
P046496        1998 SOC PROT IMPL                                    28.60       0.00                 0.00      0.00      10.04      10.04      0.00
P044200        1997 BUREAU OF ECON POL                               22.60       0.00                 0.00      0.00       4.69      4.19       1.29
P050891        1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                   40.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      37.36      37.36     37.36
P008825        1997 EDUC INNOV                                       71.00       0.00                 0.00       3.00     43.43      27.22      0.00
P008814        1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                              66.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      37.84      31.74      0.00
P045622        1996 COAL IAP                                         25.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      6.84       6.84      6.84
P042622        1996 CAP MRKT DEV                                     89.00       0.00                 0.00      33.75     29.76      63.51     14.28
P008831        1996 LEGAL REFORM                                     58.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     25.37      25.37     25.37
P008801        1996 BIODIV CONSV (GEF)                                0.00       0.00                20.10       0.00      0.76       2.66      -6.00
P008800        1996 ODS CONSMP PHASEOUT(GEF)                          0.00       0.00                60.00       0.00     10.66      16.95     17.01
P036973        1996 ENT HOUSING DIVST                               300.00       0.00                 0.00     122.74    120.67     243.41     68.71
P035764        1996 BRIDGE REHAB                                    350.00       0.00                 0.00     195.33     11.97     207.31     49.31
P035761        1996 COMMUNITY SOC INF                               200.00       0.00                 0.00      56.50     30.18      76.68      8.18
P008821        1995 ENV MGMT                                         110.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     45.06      45.06      3.51
P008823        1995 PORTFOLIO DEVT                                   40.00       0.00                 0.00       8.79      6.08      14.87      7.85
P008827        1995 HOUSING                                         400.00      000                  0.00     150.73     55.42     206.14     55.42
P008803        1995 EGY EFF                                          106.50      0.00                 3.20      43.45      6.14      86.09      0.85
P008828        1994 FIN INSTS                                       200.00       0.00                 0.00      S9.50     64.45     123.95     43.36
P008839        1994 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                              200.00       0.00                 0.00      50.00     98.29     148.29     37.28
P034579        1994 LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT                            80.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     17.66      17.66      -8.69
Total:     3255.20       0.00              83.30      723.79     1516.36    1498.23    365.62
- 74 -



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Campina                       5.61     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.61    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               DLV                           0.00     0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60     0.00    0.00
1998               DreVo                         0.00     0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89     0.00    0.00
1995               First NIS Fund                0.00     5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.70     0.00    0.00
1994               Framlington Fund              0.00     8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00     0.00    0.00
2000               Ikea MOS                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Mosenergo                     16.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.86    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002               N13D                           2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001               MAC                            2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               OMGC                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Pioneer First                  0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00     0.00    0.00
2001                Probusiness Bank              0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00    0.00
1994               RTDC                          0.00     7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1998/01            Ramstore                     30.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001                Ruscam                       13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.50     0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Russ Tech Fnd                  0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Russia Registry               0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00
0                   SCF Restructured              0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00
2002                Sonic Duo                    30.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   18.71    0.00    0.00    5.29
2002                Swedwood Tichvin              5.83    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Toribank                      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               UNEXIM Bank                    5.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.28    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               ZAO Storaenso                 4.80     1.50    0.00    0.00    4.80     1.50    0.00    0.00
1996/98            Alpha Cement                  0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/99            Aminex                         0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00
1998               Borsteklo                     0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       140.98   46.92     5.00   10.00   121.09   46.91    5.00    5.29
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Volga-Dnepr                     25.00      0.00      0.00     25.00
2002               Center-invest                    2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Baltiski Leasing                 2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Delta Leasing                    10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               R.PEFF                          20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Egar Technology                  o.oo      0.00      1.50      0.00
2002               Delta Credit                    20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               DLV                              3.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               Bema Gold                        0.00      0.00      1.00      0.00
2001               Pakenso - RI                     0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00
2001               Ford Russia                     55.00      0.00      0.00     55.00
Total Pending Commitment:       137.00     0.00      2.70     80.00
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Russian    Central   middle-
Federation      Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     145.5       475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,660     2.010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    241.6       956     2.327                      T
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        -0.3      0.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                       0.0       0.6       1.3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  30
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                 73        67        42                       l
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               15        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              3         ..                   Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   99        90        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     1         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  109      100       114        -    ussian Federation
Male                                                109       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              108        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            ..   1.100.1    193.2     251.1
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                   ..    30.1      14.8      17.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..     18.2       43.9     459                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..     30.3      31.2      38.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..       ..      25.3      33.8
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..       10.6     16.7      Domestic                   Ie\
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      ..        .1        1.1    Sa                 -        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  90.6     64.5       vings
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       11.5       9.6
Present value of debUGDP                       ..      ..      67.7
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      153.5
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..    -4.8      5.4        8.3      4.3         -    ussian Federation
GDP per capita                       ..     -4.6      5.8       8.9       4.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..     -0.9     -1.8       4.3       2.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Agricutture                                   ..     16.6        7.4       7.1
Industry                                      ..     48.4      35.5      38.7      o    _
Manufacturing                                ..0
Services                                      ..     35.0      57.1      54.2    -20      -x
Private consumption                            ..    48.9      52.1      47.9     .0
General government consumption                ..     20.8       16.7      13.8                 0GDI     -    GOP
Imports of goods and services                 ..     17.9      27.4      24.8
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                         '4
Agriculture                                   ..     -6.0       10.7       5.0   -'4 T
Industry                                      ..     -7.6       9.8       11.8    20
Manufacturing                                ..
Services                                       ..     -3.3       2.2       2.9   l      _____ss   96  ____0
3                          9~~~~.0.  5  96  9799       0
Private consumption                                   2.0       -1.6      8.2      i
General government consumption                ..      0.3        3.0      12.9   -40
Gross domestic investment                     ..     -18.4       5.7      17.3          -     Expons   - Oe  Imports
Imports of goods and services                  .      -7.4    -28.4      17.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 76 -



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
fDomestic preos                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer priocs                                ..     5.6      85.7     20.8      r
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..    15.9     64.7      37.1
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, Includes current grants)                                                      _-_                    _
Current revenue                                ,.      ..      33.5     37.1            9s    96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balanoe                         ..      ..       1.3      7.8          -     GDP deflator  0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -3.6      2.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      ..    75,666  105,566     125.000
Crude oil                                   ..       ..    14,101   25,319     100.000
Natural gas                                 ..       ..    11,352   16,644
Manufactures                                ..       ..     8,500    10,000     75,000
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..    41,757   47,192     so000
Food                                        ..       ..     8,100    7,400       .         _        9         9
Fuel end enemry                              .        ..      419      471
Capital goods                               ..       ..    10,500    10,600 o    - 
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..       82       112            94   95  9s   97   98  99   oo
Import prioe index (1995=100)                 ..       ..       85        82              0 * Exports   * Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                        ..       ..       96       136
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millibns)                             1980     1990      199       2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..    84,738  115,200     20T
Resource balance                              ..       ..    31,768   52,910     19
Net income                                     ..      .     11,900  -11,154     10, 
Net current transfers                         ..       ..      542        90
Current acoDunt balance                       ..       ..    20,410   41,846
Flnancing items (net)                         ..       ..   -16,583  -23,432     o             __       _
Changes In nett reserves                      ..       ..    -3,827  -18,415         94   ss   96   97   98    99   00
Memno:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    12,456   27,972
Conversion rate (Official, locallUSS)         ..       ..      24.6     28.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1m       2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    ComposItion of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..      ..   175,103  162,023
IBRD                                        ..       ..     6,809    7,067                       A: 7,067
IDA                                         ..       ,.        0         0           G: 17,953          C: 11,613
Total debt service paid                       ..       ..     9,761   11,165                  ,: 251
IBRO                                        ..       ..      520       679               , ^
IDA                                         ..       .,        0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..       ..        ..
Official creclitors                         ..       ..      577      -688       F: 60.239  t  .             E: 64,900
Private creditors                           ..       ..     -176      -330
Foreign direct Investment                   ..       ..     1,348     -347
Portfolio equity                             .       ..      -200     -100
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..      430       183     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       ..      538       540     B - IDA   D Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       ..      150       267     C - IMF                    G - Shrort-tern
Net fbws                                     ..      ..      388       274
Interest payments                           ..       ..      370       412
Net transfers                               ..          ..    18      -139
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                            9/6/01
- 77 -



Additional Annex 11: Summary Diagnostic of Ministry of Taxes and Fees Constraints
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
The second tax reform project, TAMP II, while incorporating the achievements and lessons learned under
the first project, focuses on the institutional development of the tax administration. TAMP I
demonstrated the effectiveness of a number of tax administration concepts in the Moscow, Nizhny
Novgorod, and Volgograd regions, which were implemented under the jurisdiction of the State Tax
Service (STS) of the Russian Federation, with financial and technical assistance from the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund, starting in 1996. The specific objectives of TAMP I were to: pilot
tax administration reforms in two regions with about 110 local offices through (i) reorganization of
structures and processes, (ii) automation of tax systems, and (iii) staff training; and to assist in the
institutional development of tax administration by (i) building the capacity of the tax administration, (ii)
preparing for nationwide implementation of reforms in tax administration, and (iii) providing support for
project management.
TAMP I was carried out in the Volgograd and Nizhny Novgorod Oblasts for all taxes, and in Moscow for
personal income taxes only. The pilot focused on reorganizing tax offices by functional responsibility;
introducing taxpayer self-assessment as the basis for filing retums; installation of computer systems
(hardware and software) for creating a taxpayer database and managing taxpayer information to automate
tax administration operations; and training tax officers to use the information technologies and to
exercise their new functional responsibilities. This required re-engineering the entire business procedures
(workflow) of the agency and retrofitting the tax office infrastructure to accommodate the new
procedures and technology. Training included developing new curricula through agreements with local
higher education institutions to provide advanced and specialized training that could not be provided by
the agency. In addition, taxpayer advisory services and outreach programs were established.
Revenue gains under TAMP I were impressive. For example, in Volgograd they included: (i) an increase
in voluntary compliance from 20.9 percent of total tax revenue in 1997 to 59 percent in the first quarter
of 2000; (ii) an increase in the non-voluntary share of tax revenue from 10.1 percent in 1995 to 42.2
percent in 1999; (iii) and a measured improvement in revenue collection performance. In 1999, for
example, countrywide revenue growth was 86 percent over the previous year, while Volgograd Oblast
experienced a growth of 89 percent, a reversal of the situation in years prior to modernization, when
Volgograd Oblast experienced lower revenue growth than the country average. This was based on a
series of incremental reforms beginning in 1997 and included development of a functionally-based
organization, customer service infrastructure, contact-free filing (an anti-corruption as well as efficiency
measure), and centralized data processing centers (DPCs), which were introduced at mid-term review at
the suggestion of the Ministry to improve the efficiency of collections in the pilot regions. Because of its
late introduction, the efficiency effects of DPCs will only fully appear in the next two to three years.
TAMP I focused on demonstrating the feasibility and advantages of key tax administration concepts in
the Russian environment and did so by improving the pilot organization, processes, procedures and
automation at the operational level. TAMP II will broaden the reform approach; it is a comprehensive
tax administration reform that will address organization, management, and operational weaknesses at the
federal, regional, and local levels. The institutional reforms promoted by the project will affect the tax
administration countrywide, while the implementation of modernized systems will take place in 12
regions, representing approximately 75 percent of total tax revenues collected. At the federal level,
DPCs will be created in all federal Okrugs.
- 78 -



Although it might have been desirable to extend the modernization effort to all areas of the country,
indications are that such an approach would not be feasible given the time and resource constraints of a
World Bank project environment, staff limitations of the Ministry, and the sheer size of the country.
Discussions are now centering on a three-pronged approach to modernization: (i) countrywide
institutional development; (ii) creation of a federal processing center, and six large interregional data
processing centers at okrugs to increase efficiency and promote separation between tax inspectors and
taxpayers; and (iii) automation of tax offices in 12 selected regions. Some of the key elements of
institutional development including reorganization of offices, training, and many business procedures
would be adopted countrywide so as to establish a reasonable level of business standardization and
taxpayer equity. Meanwhile, the investment in automation would place priority on the regions that
contribute the most to revenue collection (note that Moscow and St. Petersburg are not included because
of their already advance stage of automation), while ensuring that all newly defined federal regions are
coverecl so that eventually the reform can be expanded. The investment in automation and automated
procedures would have direct impact on collection, audit, and enforcement activities, and hence fiscal
pressure. Considering the lessons learned during the first project, the Ministry currently estimates it can
carry olut the modernization of the largest 12 regions over the five years of the project. MinTax, using its
own resources, would modernize the remaining regions as time, management and financial capacity
permits.
Institutional and organizational constraints, identified jointly by the Bank and MinTax, to be addressed
by the project are summarized below.
(i)   Organization and management
The organization of the tax administration is currently at the local level mainly based on the type of tax
administered--with the notable exception of the TAMP I regions; regional offices and the Ministry of
Taxes and Fees have a mixed organizational structure, incorporating elements of type of tax, functional
and taxpayer category based structures. Duplication of tasks and the lack of a clear separation of
responsibilities increase the compliance costs for taxpayers and the risk of corruption. In addition, an
overly fragmented network of offices, with almost 2500 offices existing at the regional and local level,
reduces administrative efficiency. Over the last year, in preparation for TAMP II, MinTax has made
serious efforts to reform the organizational structure of the tax administration; the number of regional
offices has been reduced from 89 to 82 and more than 250 local inspectorates have been integrated into
larger inter-rayon inspectorates. Fifty-two percent of territorial offices have already been reorganized
along functional lines. The project will support the further re-organization of the tax administration at
all levels along functional lines and the reduction in the number of regional and local offices. This
process will be facilitated by creating regional DPCs, which will take over the task of taxpayer
registration from local offices. The project will also facilitate corresponding reorganization at the
federal level.
Uniform application of tax laws throughout the country is jeopardized by the current practice of many
regiornal and local offices issuing their own regulations on the application of the tax code and the
Ministry's lack of capability to monitor and evaluate the performance of subordinate offices. The
development of standardized workflows and the improvement of management systems will support the
achievement of the government objective to equalize the conditions of taxation for all taxpayers.
Improved monitoring of compliance with procedural standards through strengthening of the internal
audit function will also reduce the opportunities for corruption.
MinTax currently lacks analytical capacity in general, and especially insufficient revenue forecasting
and tax modeling capacity. The project will assist in the design and implementation of a tax modeling
systern.
- 79 -



(ii)   Taxpayer services development
While a large variety of taxpayer services are provided by the Ministry, there is neither a dedicated
taxpayer service function existing in the ministry to provide countrywide direction, nor has a clear
strategy for taxpayer services been developed. A quality control of existing services or service
performance targets do not exist. In addition to the tax administration, information and advice
increasingly is provided by private sector tax consultants and taxpayer associations. However, private
tax advisory services are of very mixed quality, as neither the access to nor the responsibilities of the
profession have been regulated, and the tax administration so far has not explored the potential benefits
of cooperating with taxpayer associations to provide improved services to taxpayers. The project will
support the design of a taxpayer service strategy and of uniform service standards as well as the quality
improvement of existing services. It will assist in the definition of the role and responsibilities of private
tax advisory services.
(iii)  Audit and investigation
Audit effectiveness in Russia is extremely low compared to international standards. Forty-six percent of
all field audits do not produce any additional revenues. Desk audits focus more on checking of
calculations than on a plausibility analysis of tax returns; field audit selection is based mainly on the
judgment of individual tax inspectors than on risk analysis. Efforts to computerize desk audits have
started; however currently different software packages are used throughout the country, none of them
having functionality comparable to international best practice. The project will support the development
of a third-party information system to increase the efficiency of desk audits and support risk analysis as
a basis for field audits. A uniform IT system for desk audits will be selected and implemented.
Efficiency of field audits will be enhanced by providing computerized support for field audit selection
and for the planning and execution of field audits.
(iv)  Arrears management
The amount of consolidated tax arrears continues to grow rapidly, increasing from US$8.57 billion in
1999 to US$15.5 billion on January 1, 2001. This equals almost 32 percent of tax revenues collected in
the year 2000. Nearly a similar amount, US$ 15.2 billion, of penalties and interest due constitutes
arrears. One key reason for the increasing amount of arrears is the lack of procedures for writing-off
uncollectable arrears; another reason lies in significant deficiencies in the arrears management system.
An arrears management department has recently been established in MinTax. The project will improve
techniques and procedures for the recovery of tax arrears, design and implement an arrears management
information system, and improve the arrears restructuring mechanism.
(v)   Large taxpayers
The 8,500 largest taxpayers in Russia contribute approximately 70 percent of total tax revenues. MinTax
has made considerable efforts to improve the efficiency of large taxpayer operations. Three interregional
inspectorates for the largest taxpayers in the oil, gas, and spirits, alcohol and tobacco sectors have been
established at the federal level. Industry specialization for large taxpayers will be further expanded in
2002 with additional special large taxpayer inspectorates in the energy and the transport sector. Large
taxpayer offices have also been set up at the Okrug and regional levels. Despite the focus on large
taxpayers, the tax administration faces major problems in assessing the correct tax burden and detecting
tax avoidance and evasion schemes. Analysis of transfer pricing schemes and the impact of the structure
of large businesses on their business operations and tax liabilities constitutes a major challenge. In
addition an analysis of MinTax has shown that the effective tax burden on large businesses operating in
the same sector differs significantly in practice due to multiple tax avoidance techniques used. The
project will improve the capacity of the tax administration to analyze large business operations. It will
assist in the collection of sector-specific information to improve the analysis of organizational structures
- 80 -



of businesses in typical large business sectors and to establish methods for profit estimation based on
indirect methods. It will support the creation of an integrated database of largest taxpayers.
(vi) Legal, regulatory and appeals framework
Lack of clarity of the regulatory framework: as a consequence of the ongoing fundamental reform and
subsequent revision of tax policy inconsistencies between different legal acts related to taxation has
emerged rather frequently, and not all provisions of the Tax Code are sufficiently clear. In addition, the
quality of the drafting of existing regulations is not uniform, and a number of cases have been detected
where regulations were either contradictory to the law or inconsistent with other regulations. To
improve the transparency of the tax system and reduce the discretion of tax authorities the project will
support a review of existing legislation and regulations as well as the preparation of new regulations
where necessary.
The number of appeals brought to court either by the taxpayer or the tax administration is increasing. In
the first half of 2001 the arbitration courts had to decide 217,000 tax cases. The large majority of these
cases concerns appeals filed by the tax administration to enforce penalties, and legislative changes are
being considered to permit the enforcement of penalties without an involvement of the judiciary.
Appeals to court filed by taxpayers in the majority of cases are decided in favor of the taxpayer. This is
mainly due to the fact that the tax administration does not have sufficiently qualified lawyers to defend a
case. M/IinTax now has designed new procedures for a pre-court appeals process, which should allow the
tax adnministration to review its decision before it is appealed to the court, and thus to reduce the number
of court cases. The project will support the refinement and promotion of the new pre-court appeals
process, as well as the training of MinTax lawyers to improve the representation of MinTax before
court. A database of court decisions in tax matters will be established to support the preparation of cases
and the review of clarity and consistency of MinTax regulations. HR reforms would attempt to create
conditions to attract and retain well-qualified public lawyers into the tax administration.
(vii) Human resources and training
Lack of adequate personnel policies, career path, narrow pay bands few grades, low wages, command
and control management in a decentralized system, overly-academic training emphasis, lack of
performance incentives, and absence of institutional integrity measures (e.g., code of ethics and
conduct), currently compromise the ability of MinTax to implement the human resource reforms that
will be necessary to implement a full-scale and broad-based institutional reforn based on technical and
functional advances. The project would support a comprehensive reform of the Human Resource
Management and Training system, including policy and regulatory frameworks, pay and benefits (to the
extent feasible), and training system integration, moving away from education-centered and toward a
practical, job-specific technical and professional training program and delivery system suitable for a
decentralized tax office network.
(viii) Unified state register of taxpayers
A unified state register to register all taxpayer has been set up at the federal, regional and local level. In
July 2001 TINs to 1.7 million legal entities and 52 million physical persons have been assigned in the
register. The register is the backbone for information sharing within the tax administration and between
the tax administration and other government agencies. It would allow, for the first time, the creation of
an integrated view of enterprises with branches dispersed countrywide, and access to key taxpayer
information from any office as needed for the validation of tax transactions. The project will support
further expansion of register's database.
(ix) Development of electronic filing and tax payment accounting systems
The possibility to file tax declarations in electronic format is one of the major initiatives to provide
- 81 -



better services and facilitate compliance. The Tax Code has been changed to allow the acceptance of a
tax declaration in electronic format and the new law on electronic signature is currently discussed by the
State Duma. A pilot program on electronic filing is ongoing in Moscow and the Moscow region with
2000 taxpayers currently filing electronically. The project will develop and implement the software
system for e-filing and support a communication campaign and training for taxpayers to encourage
e-filing.
The data exchange between MinTax and the Treasury currently is mainly in paper format. Data are
entered manually into the MinTax database. This system will be replaced by a computerized data
exchange between regional treasury and regional tax offices. This will require the installation of
automated workplaces in Treasury and the installation of a program to convert information, as the
Treasury and the tax administration use different software in their operations. The project will develop
the architecture for the data exchange and provide software, hardware, telecommunications and other
services to facilitate the data exchange.
(x)   Information technology infrastructure
Tax administrations are essentially transaction processing organizations. They have to process a very
large number of tax liability statements (tax returns), and match them against payments made to private
banks and/or the Treasury. In addition, they need to create a mammoth web of third party information
flows that allow the tax administration to validate the accuracy of the liabilities declared by taxpayers.
Currently, the Russian Federation processes most of its transactions cradle to grave in each tax office,
which is not only inefficient but also widely open to corruption pressure. Side effects of this feature are
the inability of tax offices, other than the home base, to access taxpayer records for compliance
enforcement, and the general inability of the tax administration to obtain, internally share, and provide
taxpayer information to other government agencies, another key feature of compliance enforcement.
This component of the project would put in place an information processing infrastructure that would
allow the Russian government to reach levels of e-Government comparable to best international practice,
particularly in the main centers of economic activity.
A Federal Computer Center would be established to provide MinTax with full analytical and technical
capacity to manage the tax collection system, and to ensure the internal and external availability of
taxpayer information needed to ensure high levels of taxpayer compliance. Regional processing centers
would be established in the okrugs to provide MinTax with an efficient transaction processing capacity.
Regional directorates would interface with the Treasury, thus creating an efficient electronic highway for
the receipt of tax payment information. The automation capacity of tax offices in 12 regions would be
expanded so that they become fully capable of carrying out their activities efficiently under a functional
organization. Lastly, a countrywide corporate network would be implemented to tie together the
computing infrastructure. The Bank loan will finance the center and the network nodes corresponding to
the federal computer center, the regional processing centers, and the tax offices in 12 regions.
The component will also include the overhaul and upgrade of all MinTax administrative buildings where
substantial automation infrastructure will be established. These civil works will be financed entirely by
Govermment contribution.
- 82 -



Additional Annex 12: Institutional Analysis
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
1. Qualitative Institutional Review: major issues in the Ministry of Taxes and Fees and potential
project activities
This institutional review was carried out during the one-week project identification workshop. Working
Groups consisting of MinTax officials from headquarters and the regions, Russian and international
experts, and representatives of the Bank and IMF covered every fundamental area of tax administration
management and operations.
The table below lists the conclusions reached at the workshop which provided the main input for the
institutionial development aspects of the project.
Organizational       * Organizational structure at the Headquarters does not  * Review and refine the organizational structure
Structure            reflect the functional structure introduced in the pilots  of Headquarters so as to reflect the functional
regions. There are still some units dealing with specific  organization at the field level and improve
taxes, and there is no unit, for example, responsible for  coordination, monitoring, and evaluation by
Taxpayer Services as well as other functional areas.  MinTax of the regional and local offices.
Instead there are three units responsible for taxpayer
registration, public information and altemative   * Support the introduction of the functional
consultancy services, precluding good coordination.  structure in other parts of the country at the
regional and local levels, taking into account the
* Fragmentation leads to dilution in accountability as it  creation of DPCs. (To date, seven regions have
is not clear who is responsible for what.         been identified).
* The current structure has the disadvantages of  * Support the consolidation of smaller local
methodological discrepancies, lack of systematic  offices.
collection of infomiation, and inadequate quality of
analysis. The task of modernization is enormous and  * Examine the role and functions of interregional
demands full time attention. At present there is no unit  offices and provide appropriate support (TBD).
at Headquarters responsible for modernization. This is
likely to slow down implementation and weaken     * Consider setting up a unit within Headquarters
coordination.                                     that is exclusively responsible for implementing
the modernization program. Create parallel units
in the regions where the project will be
implemented.
Financial            * The current budget allocations are not linked to specific * Consider the possibility of introducing
Management           functional areas. Given the shift to a functional  program budgeting.
organizational structure, resource allocation may be
improved if the budget is moved to a program structure.
Supervision,         * Supervision, monitoring and evaluation systems of  * Improve supervision, monitoring, and
monitoring and       Headquarters are inadequate.                      evaluation systems of Headquarters.
evaluation
* Inspections of regional offices are carried out by  * Strengthen internal audit function and internal
Headquarters. As each inspection takes 3 to 4 weeks, not control processes.
more than 15 or 20 regions can be inspected in a year.
Therefore, a particular regional office is inspected only
once in 4 to 5 years. This implies weak control over
consistency of processes and procedures followed, quality
of service and other irregularities. In the regional offices
also the internal audit function is weak. In 1997, in NN
this function was created after various irregularities were
detected. VG does not have this function.
Coordinlation with   * MinTax's performance depends on coordination of  * Strengthen coordination and information
- 83 -



external agencies    activities with a number of extemal agencies, including  exchange mechanisms with extemal agencies.
the Financial Police, the Customs Committee, the MOF,
and others. Recently, agreements have been reached with o Enact legal provisions for the regular flow of
the Financial Police and Customs to improve       information relating to taxable transactions, from
coordination. However, a lot more needs to be done.  govemment agencies, banks, and private parties
Interdepartmental barriers often obstruct cooperation.  to MinTax.
Permanent institutional mechanisms for cooperation and
the free flow of information are needed.
Tax Policy and       o Tools for analysis of tax policy, tax compliance  o Improve information systems and analytical
Compliance Analysis  pattems, and revenue estimation, etc., are inadequate.  tools.
Management of IT     o Capacity to manage information systems being installed o Strengthen IT management capacity of
in the country needs to be strengthened.          Headquarters and regions.
Human Resource       o Wages are low. Salary levels are set in accordance  o Carry out an analysis of the skills required for
Management           with Federal Law. MinTax has little autonomy to   different functions at different levels (e.g., lawyers,
change the salaries. Some variation in average salary by  economists, IT personnel) and the number of staff
region is possible, but the leeway is very small.  needed for same.
o There are virtually no incentives or sanctions based on  o Develop options for improving remuneration of
performance. The maximum bonus that can be given is  key professional and technical staff, especially
3 months' salary.                                 auditors, lawyers, and IT personnel for whom there
is strong demand in the private sector. These could
o Low salaries are one major cause of corruption.  include an increase in the autonomy of MinTax in
setting salaries and/or providing incentives linked
o Performance evaluation systems of staff are not  to performance.
adequate.
o Develop objective perfomiance evaluation
o Training is fragmented between different agencies:  systems for staff.
Tax Academy, Institutes of Higher Leaming contracted
by MinTax, Personnel Training Centers of different  o Create a unified system for professional
regions, etc. These have their own different approaches  development, including development of a unified
without a unified strategy.                       curriculum and training materials for different
professional streams.
o The process of selection of persons for training is
weak leading to selection of inappropriate staff for  o Improve training management by
training activities. Also staff who receive training are  o Establishing more effective selection criteria
often not posted in positions where they can use the   o Ensuring full utilization of trained
training effectively.                                  personnel
o Evaluating effectiveness of training
o Due to vastness of the country, the large number of  programs
staff and high training needs, traditional training    o Using training as an integral part of career
methods cannot satisfy the demand.                     development and promotion
o Ensuring regular updating of staff skills in
o People at Headquarters and in the regions lack      line with business requirements
training in change management and in project           o Develop cost effective, altemative training
management.                                            delivery systems, e.g., distance learning,
innovative pedagogical approaches, including
interactive learning tools and methods
o Provide training in change management and
project management, starting early in TAMP
..
Taxpayer Services    o Very little involvement of Headquarters so far in  o Create an organizational unit at Headquarters,
taxpayer services activities. The Department of   responsible for methodology, guidelines for
Information Policy merely informs the public about tax  taxpayer service, centralized information for
legislation. Other actions needed for taxpayer service and taxpayers and coordination of actions in the
education are not given adequate attention.        regions
o Middle management in the regions has little interest in  o Provide training to managers, at the beginning
developing the taxpayer service function.         of TAMP 11, rather than at the end, in the concept
- 84 -



and importance of taxpayer service so as to build
* Taxpayer service means more than information and  support for this function
includes reduction of compliance costs, a friendly attitude
towards taxpayers and protection of taxpayer rights. This  * Train staff dealing with taxpayers to improve
aspect needs to be emphasized.                   the quality of their communication with and
assistance to taxpayers.
* Build on successful experience of pilots. However, as
the issues and cultures in the different regions vary  * Promote creation of Taxpayer Associations to
considerably, adapt strategies to local circumstances.  represent taxpayer interests and protect their
rights.
* Consultancy services for a fee are useful but not the
core business of tax administration. The development of  * Engage professionals to develop effective
private consultancy services should be encouraged to  taxpayer outreach programs.
reduce the tax administration's burden in this regard.
* Begin networking between pilot regions and
other regions to enable the latter to leam from the
pilot experience, benefit from the materials
already produced and develop customized
taxpayer service strategies.
* Promote the development of a private sector
tax consultancy profession.
Single Register       The information regarding a taxpayer contained in the  * Strengthen institutional arrangements at the
TaxpayerslTIN       registration database needs to be expanded to include  Headquarters to implement the Single Register of
indicators for compliance under different taxes.  Taxpayers.
, The number of registered taxpayers is likely to go up by * Provide equipment, software support, and
10 million due to recent changes in the law that requires  training for Single Taxpayer Register.
individuals to file PIT returns to claim refunds, etc.,
instead of doing so through their employers.     * Simplify registration so that it can be done
without a personal visit to the tax office.
a' Errors in TIN register are about 1%, which is high.
* Revise federal laws on information sharing by
different state agencies.
* Review legislation to allow registration for
multiple purposes in one place, such for tax,
company registration, etc.
* Analyze causes of errors in TIN databases and
take remedial actions.
Tax Accounting and  o There are multiple accounts for each taxpayer for  * Modernize systems and technology to handle
Payments            different taxes.                                 large transaction volumes relating to tax accounts
and payments.
* Design new payment documents.
* Introduce electronic payments:
* Change law to recognize electronic
signature
* Agree with banks regarding additional
work to be performed by them
* Agree with Central Bank and the federal
Treasury
* Acquire additional equipment and modify
software to accept electronic payments
* Develop a unified tax account covering all
taxes and fees
- 85 -



o Ensure information from customs regarding
exports to CIS countries to verify that these have
actually taken place and to check the correctness
of resulting VAT refund claims
Tax Declaration                                                      o Roll out self-assessment and electronic filing
of tax declarations to other regions
o Increase processing capacity in view of
increased volume and complexity of declarations
o Revise tax forms to make them simple and
consistent across the country
Data Processing                                                      o Create appropriate number of DPCs in the
Centers                                                              country.
o Ensure efficient and secure communications
between DPCs, tax offices, and Headquarters.
o Design Issues:
o Allow for growth in capacity of the DPC
o Streamline business processes while
developing the DPCs
o Ensure security and privacy of taxpayer
information
o Standardize design of DPCs throughout
the country
o Encourage mailing of returns to DPCs
o Give more attention to cost estimates and
costs and benefits
o Take maintenance costs into account
o Give legal status to DPCs to enable them
to exercise tax administration functions
vis-a-vis taxpayers
o Make legal changes to more evenly
distribute workloads and reduce peaks
o Train staff for DPCs, cadre of data entry
personnel. Also develop technical skills for
managing the HW, SW, communication
networks, etc.
Federal DPC                                                          o Create federal DPC for integrating and
analyzing countrywide data
Large Taxpayer                                                       o Integrated database combining informnation
Units                                                                from various official sources, such as
MinEnergy, MinTransport, Customs, etc., to
enable MinTax to determine the organizational
linkages between vertically integrated large
taxpayer groups and to assess their financial,
commodity and physical flows
o Upgrade communication facilities to provide
on-line access to LTU staff to investigate
transactions of large taxpayers that may span a
number of regions
o Establish standard indicators to enable analysis
of compliance by large taxpayers on the basis of
sector, industry, production level, etc.
o Create unified methodologies and guidelines
- 86 -



for dealing with cases of large taxpayers
* Establish methodologies and procedures for
carrying out simultaneous audits of taxpayers at
multiple locations in the country
. Increase technical capacity to audit specialized
industries, including sharing of experience with
other countries
Collection of Arrears                                                . Create a system for monitoring taxpayers'
assets to recover arrears
* Establish automatic systems to issue
delinquency notices to taxpayers
* Create a tax arrears management system that
allows the administration to monitor the recovery
of arrears as well control the actions of tax
inspectors engaged in this area
* Train staff
Appeals                                                              * Create an appeals management system to
monitor the disposal of appeals within the
statutory period
* Create dedicated organizational units at the
regional level to deal with administrative appeals
* Train staff in handling appeals
* Analyze possibilities for streamlining appellate
procedures
* Provide additional training to staff responsible
for representing cases before courts
* Provide training to judges to improve their
_____________________________________________    understanding  of tax  issues and  tax  laws
Legal Framework                                                      * Create legal provisions for regular flow of
information relating to taxable transactions, from
government agencies, banks, and private parties
to MinTax
* Develop a legal database available on the web
to disseminate regulations, instructions, and
court decisions to the tax administration offices
and to taxpayers
* Revise the procedure for imposition of
penalties to eliminate the need to go to court for
small penalties
* Increase the time period available for carrying
out and completing audits
* Empower the tax administration to check
compliance of banks with transferring tax
payments to the federal Treasury
* Empower the tax administration to carry out
- 87 -



spot compliance checks at taxpayer premises
(such as checking the issue of VAT invoices,
registration of potential taxpayers, etc.)
Audit                                                                 o Improve methodology of conducting audits,
especially for specific industries
o Improve/develop software, including:
o Integrated database of external information
o Develop a system for automated desk audits
that would allow verification of declarations
against various indicators of business activity,
comparison with other similar cases and
matching of information in the declarations
against third party information
o Improve the sophistication of the audit
selection system
o Develop a field audit management system to
assign cases to tax inspectors, guide inspectors
in the audit process, prepare audit Acts and
monitor the performance productivity of
inspectors, etc.
o Redesign tax declaration forns to include
information required for desk audits and to allow
comparison of declarations for different taxes
o Train auditors
2. Review of the main dimensions of the Ministry of Taxes and Fees institutional activities
Using the Bank's standard methodology for the institutional assessment of Revenue Administrations (
Diagnostic Framework for Revenue Administrations, Technical Paper no.472, June 2000), MinTax
carried out an in-depth assessment of its operations, in order to (i) validate the findings of the project
identification workshop, (ii) provide the Bank's team with the key dimensions of the project, and (iii)
establish the baseline for a number of institutional features that would be subject to change by the
project. The full assessment report, covering in detail the many aspects of the institution is available in
the Project File.
Key tax administration information indicating the scale of operations of the Ministry of Taxes and Fees
of the Russian Federation are listed below to provide a proper view of project dimensions:
- 88 -



A.       Type of taxes and duties administered by MinTax
. Level Or;l.(,*l                  -e-     1r       W._rR-- r;        L_ _t~1aj           r   L  r-. 
r.Government'-; '                          -.A:.         .  '' 2. --        --,              ,
Federal      I. Tax on profit of organizations
2. Income tax from natural persons
3. Tax on gambling business
4. Uniform social tax
5. Value-added tax
6. Excise
7. Federal license and registration charges
8. Tax on revenues from capital
9. Tax on purchase of foreign banknotes and payment documents denominated in foreign currencies
I 0. Other taxes and charges on goods and services
11. Tax on inherited or granted property
12. Tax on securities transactions
13. Charges for subsoil use
14. Charges for continental shelf use
15. Forest use charges
16. Charge for water resources use
17. Charge for standard and excess emissions and discharges of harmful substances and waste disposal
18. Charge for the right to use samples of animal kingdom and aquatic biological resources
19. Allocations for reproduction of mineral resources and raw materials
20. Other charges for natural resources use
21. State duty
22. Other federal taxes
23. Other tax payments and charges
Regional      24. Sales tax
25. Tax on property of organizations
26. Single tax on imputed income from individual activities
27. Taxes established by subjects of the Russian Federation
Local       28. Land tax
29. Tax on property of natural persons
30. Single tax levied due to the use of a simplified taxation, accounting and reporting system
__________   31. Local taxes and charges
B.      Number of large taxpayers who account for 70%           of tax revenues of the consolidated
budget: 8,500 large taxpayers.
C.      Amount of taxes collected annually by tax type (in billions of Rubles)
T a  . T   p e   i       .  r r. .lj :,  ^,                                     _  _ _j4 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ f1 " 2 - 9' h
Profits of Enterprises               99.40                      223.27                     400.63
Personal Income                      72.16                      117.07                     174.27
VAT                                  137.11                     227.89                     355.39
Excise                               61.65                      102.52                     156.27
Natural Resources                    28.26                      48.44                       82.44
Income                                1.28                       6.96                       14.74
Property                             47.67                      53.31                       64.59
Sales                                  -                         19.33                      34.64
State Levy                            1.67                       1.93                       2.49
Local                                31.06                      49.48                       78.02
Others                               44.57                      41.16                       78.71
Total                                524.83                     891.36                     1 442.19
- 89 -



D.      Recent distribution of the tax burden
Econoic' Sctoi ';; ;; -   -   r.cozrlbtiid6n twtbtoil -%Lev
*.'--   -,;    *  *_  .  - _ kl> ilS,H_--
E.  A oun  oftaxs i arear (i bilios o Rules
Industry                        46.9%
Transport                        14.7%
Trade and catenng                9.3%
Construction                     5.8%
Telecomm__unications             2.5%
Agricultute                      0.8%
Othcr sectors                    20%.
E.      Amount of taxes in arrears (in billions of Rubles)
VAT                                 140.67                    201.99                    258.13
Excise                              21.06                     33.84                      25.54
Profits of Enterprises              38.19                      66.99                     91.11
Natural Resources                   17.72                      19.65                     25.55
Others                              37.55                     49.14                      61.63
Total                               255.19                    371.62                    461.97
Notes:  I. Amounts are exclusive of penalty and interest.
2. The significant amount of tax arrears is due in part to the lack of procedures to write off uncollectible taxes.
F.      Amount of penalties and interest in arrears (in billions of Rubles)
Tax Tpe' ,t,, eLe ''e;-' .i;_- r ;  ,'L F_ ,' X ;-. <tCo'sCliditelld.-TaatPepiIyand YnerestAr .
~VT~~                                  I9799  5:.<,, '.,*,a :. &I ~19mj3;|;-FnsJni 2000.-:.K  ______,_i__ur_____________,;
VAT                                 87.68                     149.67                     224.13
Excise                              12.33                      17.76                     26.02
Profits of Enterprises              86.34                      98.33                     115.22
Natural Resources                   10.68                      12.31                     18.95
Others                              37.09                      47.99                     67.55
Total                              234.12                     326.06                     451.87
G.      Amount of taxes refunded annually (in billions of Rubles)
T';      - -  -.                          -                      oi-.,.  --_ 2000  _  _
axyp        ,+   *.{ ~  Refuuds--.TDRv    ue-, 4:     %,Z.. ':_:Refnndi-' '-Re'venne'.-i- K.*   Pi
VAT                           20.29        227.89         8.9         36.51        355.39        10.3
Excise                         0.02        102.52        0.02         0.04         156.27        0.02
Profits of Enterprises         2.65        223.27         1.2         3.41         400.63         0.9
Natural Resources              0.04         48.44         0.1          0.13        82.44          0.2
Totals                        24.07        891.36         2.7         50.65       1442.19         3.5
- 90 -



H.      Number of employees of MinTax
t;w >>    g   S  C;,g. J~~    ~~~a-lar'1 l99q"74j N,ff-% .IE.73 oaurylKooluau    l 200 -F-f  A.|
;Emnploeeyr -ir  wii 4wiZ jflcQs         l=lId;3    45 HQ-9il =l;leld;*nEl>w      ffliHQf.rZ H  M  | -2- Field".
Managers                       302        24,204         353        24,861        327         25,725
Technical staff                642        123,433        601        128,481       534        127,453
Support staff                   40         22,904        20         19520         14         18,559
Totals                         984        170,551        974        172,862       895        171,737
I.      Number of Local and Regional offices: As of January 2001, prior to starting the current wave
of modernization, MinTax had 2499 local and regional offices.
J.      Total revenue collected/annual revenue collection targets (in billions of Rubles)
Annual budget target at federal level               152.25             290.38             617.60
Actual collections                                  135.86             337.95             628.50
% Achievement                                        89.2               116.4              101.8
Note: Budget targets are foronulated only for the federal budget.
K.      Total revenue collected by MinTax/GDP (in billions of Rubles)
Total consolidated tax collections                  524.83              891.36            1442.19
GDP                                                 2696.4             4545.4             6946.0
Total/GDP (%)                                        19.46              19.61              20.76
Note: Excludes taxes and duties collected by Customs, including VAT on imports, and extra-budgetary funds.
L.      Recent revenue collection trend
GDP growth rate                  152.8
Tax revenue growth rate          161.7
M.      Administrative costs of MinTax / total consolidated revenue collections (in billions of
Rubles)
Total administrative costs                   8.89                  10.96                  17.63
Total consolidated revenue collections      524.83                891.36                 1442.19
Cost/revenue ratio (%)                       1.69                   1.23                  1.22
Note: Inclusive of all cosis of administration, including salaries, social taxes, accommodation, and consumables.
- 91 -



Additional Annex 13: Supervision Plan
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Second Tax Administration Modernization Project
This supervision plan has been prepared to guide management in the allocation of supervision
resources to the project. Because of the large number of components requiring in-depth expertise to
supervise many areas of institutional development and tax administration, and because of the
geographical coverage of the project, resources beyond the standard supervision averages would need to
be allocated to the project, as agreed during the PAD review meeting.
Main assumptions:
o The project would be launched in mid-FY03.
O The project would be managed from headquarters with a substantial presence in Moscow.
O The project would be supervision intensive during its first two years, up to its mid-term
review.
o The project implementation period would be 5 1/2 years.
Approx                Main Activities           |       Supervision Team          Staff  Estimated
Dates                        :                            C-.position          'Weeks      Cost
FY03    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            4         35,00
(585K)   the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specalist (Moscow)  3
Financial Management (Moscow)     2
Moscow Task Team Rep              2
Moscow Operations Officer         4
Q3     Project Launch Workshop:                 Tax Legal and Regulation          2        30,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration         2
- Travel expenses                        Human Resources and Training     2
Project Quality Assurance         2
Q4     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                2         20,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Human Resources and Training  2
Travel expenses
FY04    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            8         55,000
(S120K)  the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specalist (Moscow)  3
Financial Management (Moscow)     1
Moscow Task Team Rep              3
Moscow Opetations Officer         6
Q2     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                2         20,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Human Resources and Training  2
- Travel expenses
Q3     Project Supervision:                     Tax Legal and Regulation           2        30,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration           2
- Travel expenses                        Institutional Development          2
Project Quality Assurance         2
Q4     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                1         15,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Human Resources and Training  1
- Travel expenses
FYOS    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            8         60,000
($125K)  the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specialist (Moscow)  3
Financial Management (Moscow)     2
Moscow Task Team Rep              3
Moscow Operations Officer         6
H1     Project Supervision and Mid-Term Review:  Tax Legal and Regulation          2        50,00(
- 92 -



- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration          2
- Travel expenses                        Institutional Development         2
Human Resources and Training      2
Project Quality Assurance         1
Independent Reviewer              2
H2     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                1        15,000
- Experts ro be added to the supervision team  Human Resources and Training  1
- Travel expenses
FY06    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            6        50,000
(115K). the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specalist (Moscow)  2
Financial Management (Moscow)     1
Moscow Task Team Rep              2
Moscow Operations Officer         5
Hl     Project Supervision:                     Tax Legal and Regulation          1        40,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration         2
- Travel expenses                       Institutional Development         2
Human Resources and Training      2
Project Quality Assurance         1
H2     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                1        25,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Institutional Development  1
- Travel expenses                       Human Resources and Training      I
FY07    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            6        50,000
(S115KI  the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specialist (Moscow)  2
Financial Management (Moscow)     1
Moscow Task Team Rep              2
Moscow Operations Officer         5
HI     Project Supervision:                     Tax Legal and Regulation          1        40,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration         2
- Travel expenses                       Institutional Development         2
Human Resources and Training      2
_______                                    Project Quality Assurance         1
H2     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                1        25,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Institutional Development  1
- Travel expenses                       Human Resources and Training      I
FY08    Project fiduciary responsibilities throughout  Task Team Leader            6        50,000
($115K)i the fiscal year. Main team staff allocation.  Procurement Specialist (Moscow)  2
Financial Management (Moscow)     1
Moscow Task Tea-m Rep             2
Moscow Operations Officer         5
HI     Project Supervision:                     Tax Legal and Regulation          1        40,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Tax Administration         2
- Travel expenses                       Institutional Development         2
Human Resources and Training      2
Project Quality Assurance         1
H2     Project Supervision:                     Tax Administration                1        25,000
- Experts to be added to the supervision team  Institutional Development   1
- Travel expenses                       Human Resources and Training       1
FY09    Project fiduciary responsibilities for project  Task Team Leader           4        75,000
($75K)   closing and ICR filing                  Procurement Specialist (Moscow)   1
Financial Management (Moscow)     1
Moscow Task Team Rep              1
Moscow Operations Officer         3
ICR Consultant                    8
- 93 -






I  Northi                       ... .. ..
1 Arkhhogdlb t 'k                                                                                              RI.JSSIAN FEDERATION
2 Nonesi .p AUt Okrg                                                                               SECOND       TAX ADMINISTRATION
4 KoreiosRopl: i 
5 Murmonsk0rU   - -                                                        ~~~~~MODERNIZATIONPRJC
6 Vologd.Obkc       . 
It Nor/IhweN         4 3 Boshkotr-oIa Rtee                                                                                    vl.   i    Lc FBu- OF
7Norogorod ablest      JI~                                                                                                    'l:t.-j
8  ksho  Obot-                                                                                                               :- K .    i.jiNiJ-i
9 Leciugrod 061 -                                 --                                                                     -  iru.ciiivs     :.tf
1 0St. Petersburg City  57 Per.., Oblest
I1  Koji-iogrd Cit ,- I    --   -  3
III Cjentral-5/                                                                                     ,      -
13 -vnv Oblost      IX WVest Siberia 
14 Kolug. O1,1st    61 AltoyKroy               L.                              ~         
1 5KostrWo Ob6ot     62 Alloy Republic ,                                                    I-
16 Moscow Oblest     643 Kemervov Oblest  --- 
1 7Mosco City        64 Noooibrs 0b61-t 
1 80 r1,Oblot        65 Omsk Obtest                                   -I* 
1 9Ry-e' 06-ct       66 To-ks 0blost
20 S-ooleek 0blost   67 Ty.-e'01Obtst-                                 -.     '-
21 Toes Oblost       68 Khanty-Mansiy   ' 
22 Tub Oblost          Aut. Ok.    ~      
23 VIe is Oolst-f    69 Yo-se-Ne..et Aol 0Ok 
24 Voroslo1 0bl-t    X E-as5t Siberia    .----                                                I-
IX% C'entrial Chernozern  70 Boryot Republic  1- -- 
25 Bolgorod Oblo-t   71 Chit.06lst6il 
26 K-rs Oblost       72 Ago tuyot AA Obkag
27  Lipets 0blost    73 Irbot1, 0blot
28 To-sb- 0blet      74 Us -Ordo Boryol Act. Ok 
29 Voroezl Oblost    75 Kr-ssy-1,l Kroy              i 
76 oE-ki A.t Ol0u6.9           ss.
V NrhCaiucasus       77locosRpbiu                                                                 --                                                                        I-
20 Chhi.Republi      78 Teyyr Act. Ckbrug                                                  I 
31 Dogest- Republic  79 Tu- Repoblic 
32 IsuhteRepob1ic
22 Kobordis-Bol1or Republic  XI Far East6                                                                      -
34 Kresnodar Kray    80 A.or Oblot                 It I1
35 Adygey Repobli    81 Kesih.tktb Obles- %.     \
36  North OCstio  Repsb1io  82 KoryokAut Okrog -                                                                ---.   5      - .
37 Rostovo Oblast    82KtbrohKo                               -     43-.-                                                    .r-   -
38 Strerorpol' Kroy  84 Jewish Act, 0bles t   ''        a-           -
39 Koroclsoy-Cheroess Republi 85 Mogodee 0bl6t - s         - 
XI  g)ce~~~~   86 Chukoko Aut. 0h65- -                                               - 
40 Astrokhon'06lot   881b-ls               , 87 P,ri-orsiy K   I-,                                                                                    .     -y                              - ,
41  Kolwyk Republic   9SboRpbi   Ybti                     l-,.-                                                                -.             .-
42 Pes- 0blest       8  .h .bi Y6,I             3 
43 Samarar Oblast                                           -
44 OS-t-o Oblost  I Eco,wornic Regiapts   .----.                                                                                           -*-                  -          --,-
45 lotorsto  Republic  1  0oosts, Obrg, Republics --, -,
46 Velgogresd Oblest  Kos cooosOiss 
47 UI'yon-ck 0b1.,t  Auooou bos            .___________
utEIEMsER 2002









IMAGING
Report No.:         23565   RU
Type:      PAD



