ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld Frvc ol Poverty
-~~~~~~~~ ~24701
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                     Project ID: P066155
Project: Second Tax Administration Modernization  Task Team Leader: Carlos D. C. Ferreira
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 24, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m): 100.00
Bank Approval: November 19, 2002                IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSPE                            Sector: Central government administration (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the Project is to carry out a systematic reform and modernization of the tax
administration of the Russian Federation (RF), so as to: facilitate voluntary compliance, increase
administrative efficiency, strengthen enforcement capacity, enhance professional integrity and skills, and
improve tax legislation and fairness in the implementation of tax laws. As a result, the project would
support the strategic goals of promoting macro-economic stability, improving the environment for private
sector development, and strengthening public institutions.
The project wouldfacilitate voluntary compliance by: (a) instilling a service culture within the tax
administration; (b) improving the quality of taxpayer services; (c) fostering the development of taxpayer
advisory services both in the tax administration and the private sector; (d) simplifying forms and
procedures; (e) developing e-Government capacity to enable filing of tax declarations, payment of taxes,
and provision of information and services to taxpayers electronically; and (f) promoting understanding of
the tax system by the general public through communication campaigns and possible inclusion of
tax-related topics in school curricula.
The project would increase administrative efficiency by: (a) supporting the development of a functional
organizational structure at the headquarters of the Ministry of Taxes and Fees (MinTax) and in regional
and local offices; (b) creating Data Processing Centers (DPCs) at the federal and regional levels to
exploit economies of scale in routine data processing; (c) consolidating local offices; (d) standardizing
workflows based on re-engineered business processes; and (e) automating key operational and
management processes.
The project would strengthen enforcement capacity by: (a) implementing a third-party information
system to enable improved monitoring of taxable transactions; (b) enhancing tax audit and investigation



2
ISDS
capacity; (c) improving collection of tax arrears; and (d) increasing effectiveness in management of large
taxpayers.
The project would promote professional integrity and skills by: (a) establishing a clear code of ethics and
conduct; (b) improving the incentive structure; (c) implementing strategies and business processes that
reduce the opportunity for breeches in professional ethics; (d) strengthening human resource
management; (e) training managers and staff in different functional areas; and (f) creating a professional
development infrastructure for continuous upgrading of skills.
The project would improve tax legislation and equity andfairness in the implementation of tax laws by:
(a) assisting MOF in proposing changes to tax legislation and regulatory acts; (b) educating taxpayers
about the tax code, administrative procedures, taxpayer services, and taxpayer rights and obligations; (c)
improving the tax administration's capacity to administer the tax laws uniformly and consistently
throughout the country; (d) increasing the objectivity, impartiality, and efficiency of dispute resolution
mechanisms; and (e) enhancing the responsiveness of the tax administration through improved
interaction with taxpayers and other stakeholders.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will provide consulting services, training and goods to support activities under the three
general areas of Tax Administration Management, Tax Administration Operations, and Project
Management. These are divided into I l components: Organization and Management; Human
Resources and Training; Infrastructure; Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework; Unifled State
Register of Taxpayers; Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems;
Audit and Investigation; Arrears Management; Taxpayer Services Development; Largest Taxpayer
Units; and Project Management
I. Tax Administration Management
A. Organization and Management - US$ 3.6 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01 million
recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Organizational structure - US$ 0.4 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the implementation of the functional structure at the regional, and local
levels including the reorganization of territorial and local tax offices and the refurbishment of offices to
support the reorganization. The sub-component would also support further development of the federal
level structure based on the findings of the organizational structure analysis.
Sub-component 2: Management System - US$0.4 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support activities aimed at reviewing and strengthening the organizational units
in MinTax and at the regional level for formulation of operational strategy, setting targets for different
operational areas, developing indicators to measure performance, preparing annual business plans,
preparing budgets, assessing workload and allocating resources. It will also assist in strengthening the
Internal Audit Department and review and improve communication systems between and within MinTax
and territorial offices and between MinTax and other related government agencies.
Sub-component 3: Development of standardized workflows in tax administration at all levels - US$0.2
million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the re-engineering of business processes for organization and
management in inter-regional, regional and local offices including the development of manuals



3
ISDS
documenting standard processes to be followed by all offices.
Sub-component 4: Revenue forecasting and tax modeling - USS 1. 0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in developing and implementing a revenue forecasting and tax modeling
system.
Sub-component 5: Change Management - US$1.6 million (base cost)
This sub-component wvill support activities aimed at developing and implementing appropriate strategies
for managing organizational change at all levels of the tax administration, including communication
strategies to explain the rationale and potential impact of proposed changes to all managers, staff,
taxpayers and other stakeholders.
B. Human Resources and Training - US$11.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.2 million
recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Human Resource Management - US$0. 6 million (base cost)
The sub-component will support, as a long-term objective, the development of transparent and standard
procedures for the recruitment, selection, hiring and dismissal of personnel and developing career paths
based on the new functional organization occupational categories. In the short-term, this sub-component
will assist MinTax in development of a salary and benefits reform package to the extent possible,
including building in performance incentives based on transparent criteria for wage setting and benefits.
Sub-component 2: Training Delivery - US$11 0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in developing the actual training that will be delivered to the project
regions and headquarters during project implementation. Training will be focused on the implementation
needs of each technical component of the project and will be provided in packages by experts and
subsequently delivered to the regions.
Sub-component 3: Improve Professional Ethlics - US$0.3 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in improving the Ministry's capacity to manage professional ethics by
developing legislation and other regulatory and legal acts related to the protection of tax officials from
illegal encroachments, and provision of technical assistance in developing and implementing a strategy
for the prevention of potential offences on the the part of certain tax authority officials and developing
methods for assessments of staff integrity and the fair treatment of the taxpayers, including development
of the code of ethics.
C. Infrastructure - US$111.0 million (base cost, including US$ 7.7 million recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Establislhment of the FDPC - US$14.9 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in establishing a FDPC in Moscow through legislative changes,
preparation of physical facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of
functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax authorities.
Sub-component 2: Establishment of RDPCs - US$28. 0 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in establishing RDPCs through legislative changes, preparation of
physical facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of
functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax authorities.



4
ISDS
Sub-component 3: ITInfrastructure - US$50.5 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in the design of a corporate telecommunications network and the design,
development and implementation and maintenance of an advanced information technology system to
support all aspects of tax administration. This component will also assist in the design and
implementation of a human resource management information system and a Financial Management and
Financial Asset Management Information system to enable MinTax to manage its administrative
resources effectively.
Sub-component 4: Phiysical Infrastructure - US$1 0.1 nmillion (base cost)
This sub-component will adapt the current physical infrastructure of the tax administration to the
standards necessary to support automation and functional distribution of work. It will assist in
refurbishment and overhaul of administrative buildings, buildings of interregional inspectorates;
improvement of storage facilities for tax documents, as well as carrying out activities to establish security
systems for facilities of the tax administration, including fire protection and protection of data from
criminal actions.
H. Tax Administration Operations
A. Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework - US$3.5 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are
planned for this component)
Sub-component 1: Legal and Regulatory Framework - US$3.0 million (base cost)
This sub-component would support Ministry of Finance in the development comprehensive tax policy in
Russia. It would also assist the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxes and Fees in reviewing
current tax legal and regulatory framework and preparing proposals for introducing amendments to legal
and regulatory acts, as well as drafting new legislative and regulatory acts to take into account short- and
long-term policy priorities. The component would assist in improving consistency between various legal
and regulatory acts and in harmonizing laws and rules at federal, regional and local levels. It would also
assist in simplifying procedures and ensuring the tax administration has sufficient powers to administer
tax laws.
Sub-component 2: Appeals - US$ 0.5 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in strengthening the overall appeals system through carrying out
informational campaigns for taxpayers relating to the new system; conducting experiencing-sharing
meetings with the judiciary to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the court appeals system,
specifically what court procedures can be undertaken when tax decisions are appealed; and the
development of a database of precedents from court decisions of tax cases that can be used to help
MinTax decide what cases to pursue in court and and how to prosecute them.
B. Unified State Register of Taxpayers - US$1.1 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1 million
recurrent cost)
This component will support the software development and implementation to improve the Unified State
Register of Taxpayers, including reviewing and proposing changes to legislation and regulations to
require the application of a taxpayer identification number (TIN) to specific economic transactions.
C. Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 6.7 million (base
cost, including US$ 0.3 million recurrent cost)



5
ISDS
Sub-component 1: Electronicfiling - US$5.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support preparing requirements analysis and specifications, developing and
implementing a system for e-filing. The component will also assist in devising incentives for taxpayers to
use e-filing, and carrying out communication campaigns and training of taxpayers to encourage e-filing.
Sub-component 2: Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 1.3 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in the development of the architecture of the system for data interchange
with the treasury system, as well as the procurement of software, hardware, and telecommunications
services.
D. Audit and Investigation - US S7.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1 million recurrent cost)
This component will help strengthen the audit capacity of MinTax through the development of a
third-party information system, development and implementation of computerized desk and field audit
systems, development and implementation of a computerized system for selection of field audit cases,
piloting the system for checking VAT invoices, strengthening intelligence and investigation operations
and cooperation with financial police, as well as implementing a system for processing and accumulating
data on citizen incomes and property.
E. Arrears Management - US $1.1 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)
This component will support activities to improve the techniques and procedures for recovery of tax
arrears, assist in improving the data exchange system with the Bank of Russia to retrieve data on the
amount of arrears accumulated by problem banks, review and implement the arrears management
information system and policy, and develop guidelines and procedures to write off uncollectible arrears.
F. Taxpayer Services Development - US $1.8 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01 million
recurrent cost)
Sub-component 1: Develop the conceptfor a comprehensive tax education systemfor RF citizens -
VS$ 0.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in designing a national strategy for production and dissemination of
educational materials related to taxation.
Sub-component 2: Taxpayer information and consultancy service - US$1.6 million (base cost)
This sub-component will support the development of taxpayer information and consultancy services
including the development of service standards for the whole country and explanatory materials to guide
taxpayers in compliance with tax laws. It will further assist in the design and implementation of portals
and web sites of MinTax and its regional departments for disseminating materials on current tax
legislation issues.
Sub-component 3: Introduction of the self-assessment principlefor thlefiling of tax returns and
related documents - US$0.1 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in simplifying and unifying tax forms while ensuring that data necessary
for auditing and reconciliation of tax returns is provided by taxpayers, and in developing easily
understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.
G. Largest Taxpayer Units - US $0.7 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this



6
ISDS
component)
This component will develop methodologies for effective management of the largest taxpayers, including
an analysis of the organizational characteristics of these enterprises and the impact of their restructuring
on the tax base and tax revenues, as well as develop and implement methods and software for forecasting
the revenues and tax burden of these taxpayers.
HII. Project Management - US $4.0 million (base cost; no recurrent costs are planned for this
component)
Sub-component 1: Project Management - US$3.7 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in managing project implementation and cover the costs of project
management, including Project Advisor.
Sub-component 2: Development of an evaluation system to assess the effectiveness of activities carried
out in the Tax Administration Modernization Project - US$0.4 million (base cost)
This sub-component will assist in analysis of the implementation progress based on the reference
assessments and introduction of proposals aimed at increasing effectiveness of the activities. Periodic
surveys of taxpayers, managers and staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders will also be conducted to
solicit their perceptions about improvements made in the tax administration, to identify continuing
problems, and to propose measures that might be taken to improve agency performance.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project activities will be undertaken in Moscow, and in 13 regions: Volgograd Oblast, Krasnodarsky krai,
Stavropolsky krai, Rostov oblast, Perm oblast, Sverdlov oblast, Bashkortostan, Samara oblast,
Khanty-Mansiysky okrug, Yamalo-Nenets okrug, Novosibirsk oblast, Kemerovo oblast and Khabarovsky
krai. Project activities include minor refurbishment of buildings to support the introduction of
information technology, creation of appropriate work spaces in tax inspectorates for a functionally
oriented organization, and installation of computer systems. These activities are restricted to physical
facilities of MinTax where regional tax offices and local tax inspectorates are located.
It is not anticipated that the changes promoted by the project would affect, either positively or
negatively, protected areas, sites, or natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project does entail some minor civil works. Any such construction will be carried out in
compliance with Russian environmental standards. The Bank will ensure compliance in its supervision of
the project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes 0 No   0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes *No Q TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               0 Yes * No 0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No 0 TBD



7
ISDS
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes * No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No    C TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                0 Yes * No    CTBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No    C) TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
None.
II.D. Ib. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
None.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders in the reform project are the Russian government, particularly the ministries of
taxation, economy and finance, and the business and individual taxpayers. A project steering committee
would represent the interests of key stakeholders. Periodic surveys would be conducted to ensure that the
taxpaying public are receiving the required level of service sought by the project.
Internal staff of MinTax would participate in the project through the internal communication and
consultative mechanisms to be established. The project would also promote the development of private
tax advisory services to assist the private sector and enterprises in fulfilling their tax and social
contribution obligations. In introducing this development, key segments of the business, general
community and professional population would be consulted.
It is not anticipated that safeguard policy consultation would be necessary during project implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.



8
ISDS
[ ] S 1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Frdmework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission.to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. No
safeguard policies triggered.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Carlos D. C. Ferreira                       06/03/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards $pecialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Bernard Baratz                           06/03/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Cheryl W. Gray                              06/03/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here



9
ISDS
SEARCH EWFEEOCK         Sn MAP      SHOWASE



