Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4680 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Tax Administration Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 30, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4680 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 2002, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Agency Agreement” means an agreement, acceptable to the Bank, to be 
entered into between  MOF and MinTax and Federal Center for Project Finance  pursuant 
to Section 6.01 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Agency Agreement; 
(b) 
“FCPF” means the open joint-stock company Federal Center for Project 
Finance, a legal entity organized and established pursuant to the Federal Law of the 
Russian Federation No. 208-FZ of December 26, 1995, on Joint-Stock Companies, and 
Government Resolution of June 2, 1995 (No. 545), and operating on the basis of its 
Page  3
2
-
-
Charter dated February 22, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and 
registered with the Moscow Registration Chamber on March 29, 1999 (No. 38-473-
1); 
and such term shall include any successor or successors thereto;   
 
(c) 
“FDPC” means inter-regional inspection for central data processing in 
Moscow; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“GNIVTs” means the State Research Computer Center of MinTax; 
 
(f) 
“MinTax” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Taxes and Fees, or any 
successor thereto;  
 
(g) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
(h) 
“RDPC” means inter-rayon inspection for central data processing; and 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
-
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such fee shall be payable not later than 30 days 
after the Effective Date.   
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in US dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
Page  5
4
-
-
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry 
out the Project through MinTax with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices; and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 (b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  6
5
-
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, or cause to 
be prepared, financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds, and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in sub-paragraph (i) 
of this Section for such year so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts, and report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  7
6
-
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 (iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
(d) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors on the financial monitoring reports 
(FMRs) submitted during such fiscal year, and as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) 
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s
 
progress 
reporting obligations set out in Paragraph D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
Page  8
7
-
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first full calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first full calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and  
 
(b) 
the Agency Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph (b) of  
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
Page  9
8
-
-
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Agency Agreement has been entered into between 
the parties thereto.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister of Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
-
-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097
Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
112008 
  (7-095) 
925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  
 Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (1 
202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
10
 
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ 
 Victor 
B. 
Khristenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
 
Julian 
Schweitzer 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
11
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods and 
75,800,000 
100% of foreign  
 technical 
services 
 
expenditures; 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost); 
 
80%
of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally, 
including local 
transportation and 
insurance related to 
those items 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services,  
18,700,000 
87% of  
 
training and audit 
 
individual consultants; 
 
100%
of eligible social 
 
charges; 
 
79%
of expenditures on  
 consulting 
firms, including project 
audit 
 
(3) 
Incremental operating costs 
3,000,000 
87% of FCPF staff 
 
salaries and individual  
 
consultants; 
 
100%
of eligible social 
 
charges; 
 
84%
of other costs 
 
(4) Unallocated 
2,500,000
TOTAL 
  100,000,000 
Page  13
12
 
-
-
=========  
Page  14
13
 
-
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods, services or technical services contracts;  
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means Project related costs and expenses related to 
study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities which may be carried out 
through a consultant services contract or, with the agreement of the Bank, by other 
means;  
 
(d) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” comprises: (i) salaries and 
benefits of individual consultants for MinTax, salaries and benefits of FCPF staff and 
consultants employed for the purposes of Project management (all within a range for each 
position acceptable to the Bank), utility charges at a rate not to exceed the rate in 
domestic prices payable by comparable organizations, locally procured office equipment 
and supplies, costs payable in connection with rental of office space, maintenance of 
office equipment, systems and facilities, insurance, training, organization and attendance 
of conferences and seminars, and other ordinary and necessary costs payable by FCPF on 
account of Project implementation, that would be payable by entities similarly situated on 
the territory of the Borrower and customarily regarded as a cost of doing business, 
including administrative costs such as travel expenses and allowances, bank charges, and 
communications and related expenses; and (ii) amounts payable to GNIVTs under a 
contract to carry out the activities specified in Schedule 5, paragraph A.4; provided, 
however, that the expenditures hereunder shall be as set forth in the approved budgets 
which shall have been adopted pursuant to the provisions of Part D of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and  
 
 
(e) 
the term “eligible social charges” comprises social security charges 
representing a payment for a future benefit. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Page  15
14
 
-
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (d) training; and (e) incremental 
operating costs. 
Page  16
15
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to carry out a systematic reform and 
modernization of the tax administration of the Borrower, so as to: facilitate voluntary 
compliance, increase administrative efficiency; strengthen enforcement capacity, enhance 
professional integrity and skills, and increase fairness in the implementation of tax laws. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Tax Administration Management
1. Organization 
and 
Management 
(a) 
Organizational Structure  
Provision of support for activities aimed at assisting the implementation of the 
functional structure at the federal, regional and local levels including the implementation 
and reorganization of territorial and local tax offices and the refurbishment of offices to 
support the reorganization. 
(b)  Management System  
Provision of support for activities aimed at reviewing and strengthening the 
organizational units in MinTax and at the regional level for formulation of operational 
strategy, setting targets for different operational areas, developing indicators to measure 
performance, preparing annual business plans, preparing budgets, assessing workload and 
allocating resources, and assistance in strengthening the Internal Audit Department and 
reviewing and improving communication systems between and within MinTax and 
territorial offices and between MinTax and other related government agencies. 
(c)  Development of Standardized Workflows in Tax Administration at all Levels 
Provision of support for the re-engineering of business processes for organization 
and management in federal, inter-regional, regional and local offices including the 
development of manuals documenting the standard processes to be followed by all 
offices. 
 
Page  17
16
 
-
-
(d)  Revenue Forecasting and Tax Modeling   
Assistance in developing and implementing a revenue forecasting and tax 
modeling system. 
(e)  Change Management  
Provision of technical assistance in support of activities aimed at developing and 
implementing appropriate strategies for managing organizational change at all levels of 
the tax administration, including communication strategies to explain the rationale and 
potential impact of proposed changes to all managers, staff, taxpayers and other 
stakeholders. 
2.  
Human Resources and Training 
(a)  Human Resource Management  
Provision of support for the development of transparent and standard procedures 
for the recruitment, selection, hiring and dismissal of personnel and developing career 
paths based on the new functional organization occupational categories; and provision of 
technical assistance to MinTax in developing benefits packages for the tax authorities 
staff to enable them to carry out their duties, including optimization of performance 
incentives and pay system.  
(b)  Training Delivery  
Provision of technical assistance to develop the actual training program that will 
be delivered to the project regions and headquarters. 
(c)  Improve Professional Ethics  
Provision of technical assistance to improve the Ministry's capacity to manage 
professional ethics by developing legislation and other regulatory and legal acts related to 
the protection of tax officials from illegal encroachments, and provision of technical 
assistance in developing and implementing a strategy for the prevention of potential 
offences on the part of certain tax authority officials and developing methods for 
assessments of staff integrity and the fair treatment of the taxpayers, including 
development of the code of ethics.  
 
Page  18
17
 
-
-
3.  
Infrastructure 
(a)  Establishment of the FDPC  
Provision of technical assistance in establishing the FDPC through legislative 
changes, preparation of physical facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate 
hardware, software and telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number 
of personnel and redistribution of functions among the FDPC, RDPCs, and territorial tax 
authorities. 
(b)  Establishment of RDPCs 
Provision of technical assistance in establishing RDPCs in a number of regions 
through legislative changes, preparation of physical facilities, procurement and 
implementation of adequate hardware, software and telecommunications equipment, and 
optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of functions among the FDPC,  
RDPCs and territorial tax authorities. 
(c)  IT Infrastructure  
Provision of technical assistance in the design of a corporate telecommunications 
network and the design, development and implementation and maintenance of an 
advanced information technology system to support all aspects of tax administration; and 
technical assistance in the design and implementation of a human resource management 
information system to enable MinTax to manage its administrative resources effectively. 
(d)  Physical Infrastructure  
Construction and overhaul of administrative buildings,  buildings of interregional 
inspectorates and educational facilities, improvement of storage facilities for tax 
documents, as well as carrying out activities to establish security systems for facilities of 
the tax administration, including fire protection and protection of data from criminal 
actions. 
Page  19
18
 
-
-
Part B
:
Tax Administration Operations
1.  
Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework 
(a)  Legal and Regulatory Framework  
Assistance to the Ministry of Finance in developing a comprehensive long-term 
tax policy, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance and MinTax in reviewing 
the existing tax legislation and regulatory framework and preparing proposals for 
amendments to legal and regulatory acts and drafting new legislation and regulations  for 
different functional areas and taxes, and improving consistency between various 
provisions, and harmonizing laws and rules at the federal, regional and local levels. 
(b)  Appeals  
Provision of technical assistance in strengthening the overall appeals system 
through the development and implementation of an improved administrative appeals 
system; carrying out of an informational campaign for taxpayers relating to the new 
system; conducting joint seminars with the judiciary to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the court appeals system; and developing and implementing a database of 
court decisions. 
2.  
Unified State Register of Taxpayers 
Provision of support for software development and implementation to improve 
the Unified State Register of Taxpayers, including reviewing and proposing changes to 
legislation and regulations to require the attachment of a taxpayer identification number 
(TIN) to specific economic activities. 
3. 
Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems 
(a)  Electronic filing  
Provision of technical assistance in the preparation of requirements analysis and 
specifications, developing and implementing a system for e-filing, as well as assistance in 
identifying the legal requirements for e-filing of tax returns and amending current 
legislation to enable e-filing; and assistance in devising incentives for taxpayers to use e-
filing and carrying out communication campaigns and training of taxpayers to encourage 
e-filing. 
Page  20
19
 
-
-
(b)  Tax Payment Accounting Systems  
Provision of technical assistance for the development of the architecture of the 
system for data interchange with the treasury system, as well as the procurement of 
software, hardware, and telecommunications services. 
4.  
Audit and Investigation 
Technical assistance to strengthen the audit capacity of MinTax through the 
development of a third-party information system, development and implementation of 
computerized desk and field audit systems, including piloting invoice cross-checking, 
development and implementation of a computerized system for selection of cases for 
field audit, strengthening of intelligence and investigation operations and cooperation 
with financial police, and implementing a system for processing and accumulating data 
on incomes and property of citizens. 
5.  
Arrears Management 
Support to activities to improve the techniques and procedures for recovery of tax 
arrears, assistance in improving the data exchange system with the Bank of Russia to 
retrieve data on arrears amounts accumulated by problem banks, review and 
implementation of the arrears management information system and policy, and 
development of guidelines and procedures to write off uncollectable arrears. 
6.  
Taxpayer Services Development 
(a)  Develop the concept for a comprehensive tax education system for RF 
citizens  
Assistance in designing a national strategy for production and dissemination of 
educational materials related to taxation. 
(b)  Taxpayer information and consultancy service  
Support for the development of taxpayer information and consultancy services 
including the development of service standards for the whole country and explanatory 
materials to guide taxpayers in compliance with the tax laws; assistance in the design and 
implementation of portals and web sites of MinTax and its regional departments for 
disseminating materials on current tax legislation issues. 
Page  21
20
 
-
-
(c)  Improve conditions for adherence to the self-assessment principle for the 
filing of tax returns and related documents 
Technical assistance in simplifying and unifying tax forms while ensuring that 
data necessary for auditing and reconciliation of tax returns is provided by taxpayers, and 
in developing easily understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.  
7.  
Largest Taxpayer Units 
Development of methodologies for effective management of the largest 
taxpayers, including analysis of the organizational characteristics of their enterprises and 
the impact of their restructuring on the tax base and tax revenues, and development and 
implementation of methods and software for forecasting the revenues and tax burden of 
these taxpayers. 
Part C
:
Project Management
1.  
Project Management 
(a)  Project Management  
Provision of technical assistance to support project implementation management 
and project audit. 
(b)  Development and implementation of an evaluation system 
Provision of technical assistance consisting of analysis of the implementation 
progress based on the reference assessments; introduction of proposals aimed at 
increasing effectiveness of the activities; carrying out of periodic surveys of taxpayers, 
managers, staff of MinTax, and other stakeholders to obtain their perception of 
improvements made in the functioning of the tax administration, continuing problems, 
and measures to improve project performance.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  22
21
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and  November 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2008 
 through 
 
May 
15, 
2019 
    4,165,000 
 
On 
November 
15, 
2019 
     4,205,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  23
22
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto may be applied to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Equipment and technical services for training and automation estimated to cost 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  24
23
 
-
-
2. International 
Shopping 
Equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 (i.e., initial batches of 
computer equipment, laptops, audio visual and office equipment), and upgrading and 
updates of equipment and software estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures, after 
at least three quotations have been obtained, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping 
Minor sundry items, small equipment, network and power cabling estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures, after at least three quotations have been obtained, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and spare parts which must be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract, or must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment, or are of a proprietary nature, or must be procured from a particular supplier 
as a condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $250,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  25
24
 
-
-
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first three contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with procedures referred to in each of Parts C.2 and C.3 above; and (ii) all 
contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in C.4 
above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the issuance of invitation to quote, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and draft contract; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotation(s) received; 
and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
25
 
-
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for consulting related to the design of a corporate telecommunications 
network and to the development of the architecture for data interchange, software, 
hardware and telecommunications specifications for the tax payment accounting system 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for consulting related to development of pilot campaigns for 
dissemination of tax-related information may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services for consulting related to project audits may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Section III of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for project financial management, and development of the appeals 
framework, tax payment accounting system, field audit system and software, and 
taxpayer services as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and estimated to cost 
less than $1,400,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  27
26
 
-
-
5. Individual 
Consultants
Specialized services related to the reform of tax administration including 
taxpayer services, audit and investigation, arrears management, and the development of 
analytical capacity and modeling, as well as services related to project management, and 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
individual consultants not referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) above, terms of reference 
Page  28
27
 
-
-
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III
.
Procurement of Other Services
1. 
Services related to external study tours for government officials, specialized 
project and change management training and conference participation estimated to cost 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent in aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Services of suitably qualified agencies may be hired to provide “travel logistic 
services” after comparison of not less than three substantially responsive price quotations. 
Page  29
28
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 5
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Arrangements for Project Implementation and Management
1. 
MinTax shall be responsible for ensuring the efficient overall implementation of 
the Project with appropriate management, qualified staff, and provision of adequate 
facilities and resources.  
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MinTax shall maintain a 
Modernization Department with staffing and authority satisfactory to the Bank to 
implement the Project. 
3. 
Part of the project management responsibilities including, inter alia, procurement, 
financial management reporting, accounting and auditing, may be carried out by the 
FCPF under the terms of the Agency Agreement, subject to adequate prior provision 
therefor acceptable to the Bank, as provided in paragraph D of this Schedule.    
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out the activities referred to in Schedule 2, 
paragraphs B.2 and B.4, relating to (a) improvement of the Unified State Register of 
Taxpayers, and (b) development of a computerized system for selection of cases for field 
audit, FCPF shall enter into contracts with GNIVTs acceptable to the Bank, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $900,000.     
5. 
The Ministry of Finance, MinTax and the FCPF shall maintain the Agency 
Agreement, and except as may be agreed by the Bank, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
or waive the Agency Agreement or any part thereof.   
B.   
Training
1. 
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank and providers in accordance with procedures agreed with 
the Bank; and 
(b) 
not later than December 31 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year. 
Page  30
29
 
-
-
C. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made with 
the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project.
 
D.   
Financial Planning
The Borrower shall ensure the following provision for financial planning under 
the Agency Agreement:   
 
1. 
Prior to incurring any commitments related to the Project under the Agency 
Agreement, FCPF shall submit to MOF, MinTax and the Bank for their prior review and 
approval the proposed budget with financing sources for expenditures to be incurred 
under the Project up to the end of the calendar year, in the aggregate and separately for 
activities of individual consultants for MinTax and for activities involving the carrying 
out of other project management functions, in such detail as MOF, MinTax and the Bank 
shall reasonably request. Such budget with financing sources shall identify specifically 
the expenditures to be financed by the Bank and the Borrower, respectively.   
 
2. 
For any subsequent year during the implementation of the Project, FCPF shall 
prepare, by May 15 of the preceding year an aggregate annual budget proposal, and by 
December 1 a detailed draft annual budget with financing sources in the same manner as 
provided under paragraph 1 hereof.  
 
3. 
FCPF shall carry out all Project support activities and incur project-related 
expenditures during the year in accordance with the Agency Agreement and the approved 
budget with financing sources. 
 
4. 
Any changes in the scope of activities or planned expenditures occurring within 
the current year are subject to prior review and approval by MOF, MinTax and the Bank. 
 
E. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about July 31, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Page  31
30
 
-
-
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 1, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  32
31
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $5,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
Page  33
32
 
-
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  34
33
 
-
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
