                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000716




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46800 JPN-26119)




                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                           RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                    FOR A

        SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                 May 29, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Russia Country Department
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2009)
                                     Currency Unit = Ruble
                                    US$ 1.00 = 33.25 Rubles

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1--December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL--Adaptable Program Loan                      MoEDT--Ministry of Economic Development and
                                                 Trade
CAS--Country Assistance Strategy                 MOF--Ministry of Finance
CBR--Central Bank of Russia _                    NN--Nizhniy Novgorod (TAMP I pilot site)
CFAA--Country Financial Accountability           NPV--Net Present Value
Assessment
CIS--Commonwealth of Independent States          OECD--Organization for Economic Cooperation
                                                 and Development
ConOps--Concepts of Operation (report)           PCU--Project Coordination Unit
DPCs--Data Processing Centers                    PIP--Project Implementation Plan
ERR--Economic Rate of Return                     PIT--Personal Income Tax
EU-TACIS--European Union Technical Assistance    PIU--Project Implementation Unit
for CIS
FCPF--Federal Center for Project Finance         POM--Project Operations Manual
FDPC--Moscow Interregional Inspection for        RDPC--Interrayon Inspection for Centralized Data
Centralized Data Processing                      Processing
FMR--Financial Monitoring Report                 RF--Russian Federation
FTS--Federal Tax Service                         SAL (I/II/III)--Structural Adjustment Loan (I/II/III)
GDP--Gross Domestic Product                      STS--State Tax Service
GPN--General Procurement Notice                  TA--Technical Assistance
HR--Human Resources                              TAMP I/II--Tax Administration Modernization
                                                 Project (first and second)
IBRD--International Bank for Reconstruction and  TIN--Tax Identification Number
Development
ICR--Implementation Completion Report            UNDP--United Nations Development Program
ILO--International Labor Organization            USAID--United States Agency for International
                                                 Development
IMF--International Monetary Fund                 UTA--Unified Treasury Account
IT--Information Technology                       VAT--Value Added tax
LTU--Large Taxpayer Unit                         VG--Volgograd (TAMP I pilot site)
MinTax--Ministry of Taxes and Fees



                                 Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

                              Country Director: Klaus Rohland

                                Sector Manager: Ronald E. Myers

                           Project Team Leader: Amitabha Mukherjee

                             ICR Team Leader: Amitabha Mukherjee

                                       Russian Federation
                 Second Tax Administration Modernization Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................13
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................24
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................29
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................29
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................32
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........34
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................36
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................37
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................41
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............47
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................49
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................55
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................56
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................67
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................68
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Tax Administration
Country:                Russian Federation    Project Name:          Modernization 2
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P066155               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46800,TF-26119
ICR Date:               06/09/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 89.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Federal Tax Service
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/12/2001    Effectiveness:                           04/28/2003
Appraisal:             01/28/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              10/24/2002    Mid-term Review:     02/15/2007          11/24/2006
                                     Closing:             06/30/2008          06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                           29                14
Law reform                                                        14                14
Legal institutions for a market economy                           14                29
Other accountability/anti-corruption                              14                14
Tax policy and administration                                     29                29


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Klaus Rohland                      Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager:           Ronald E. Myers                    Helga W. Muller
Project Team Leader:      Amitabha Mukherjee                 Carlos D. C. Ferreira
ICR Team Leader:          Amitabha Mukherjee
ICR Primary Author:       Carlos D. C. Ferreira
                          William V. Mayville



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Project comprised carrying out a systematic reform
and modernization of the Russian Federation (RF) tax administration. The project aimed
to support the overall strategic goals of promoting macro-economic stability, improving
the environment for private sector development, and strengthening public institutions.



                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Number of tax declarations received on time/total number of tax declarations
               filed (achieved)

Value          Pilot Regions              Increased on-time                    On-time filing:
quantitative oron-time filing 90.2%       filing in pilot                      96.3% (3.7% late
Qualitative)   (i.e. 9.8% late filing)    regions                              filing)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2008                           03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       On-time filing increased by 6.1 percentage points (i.e. by 6.8%) while late filing

achievement)   was reduced by 62%. The target was achieved.

Indicator 2 :  Ratio of "tax revenues paid voluntarily/total tax revenues collected" in each
               project region (achieved)
                                          Change in the ratio
                                          for each pilot                       Russian Federation
Value          Russian Federation:        region relative to                   2007: 89.4%
quantitative or89.9%                      its change for                       Pilot Regions:
Qualitative)   Pilot Regions: 92.8%       Russia average by
                                          2 percentage                         96.4%

                                          points by project
                                          completion
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  06/30/2008                           03/31/2008

Comments       Russian Federation

(incl. %       2007: 0.5 percentage point decrease

achievement)   Pilot Regions: 3.8 percentage points increase. The target was achieved.

Indicator 3 :  Percentage of tax returns that are filed by mail or electronically (achieved)
                                          Substantial
Value                                     increase of                          Pilot Regions:

quantitative orPilot Regions: 24.6%       electronic or mail                   43.4% (1.8 times

Qualitative)                              filing of tax                        increase)

                                          returns
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  06/30/2008                           03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Pilot Regions showed an increase of 1.8 times - the target was achieved.

achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Average number of days taken to notify registered taxpayers who fail to pay
               taxes on time (partially achieved)
Value          Pilot Regions - 18 days    To decrease                          Pilot Regions
quantitative or                           average number of                    2007#38 days


                                               iii

Qualitative)                                days compared to                   (compared to 47
                                            baseline value                     days for non-pilot
                                                                               regions)

Date achieved 12/31/2003                    06/30/2008                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved # though higher than the baseline value, Pilot Regions did

achievement)    better than non-pilot regions

                Change in the ratio #Amount of taxes collected in each project region (adjusted
Indicator 5 :   for large taxpayers migration)/number of tax administration civil servants# in all
                project regions relative to its change for Russia average (achieved)

                                            Increase by 6.5                    Russian Federation:

                Russian Federation: 31.5 percentage points,                    71.2 million rubles
                                                                               per staff; Pilot
Value           million rubles per staff;   and in each project                regions: 97.9
quantitative or Pilot Regions: 40.1         region, the ratio                  million rubles per
Qualitative)    million rubles per staff;   should be higher
                Non-pilot Regions: 22.8 than the Russia                        staff;

                million rubles per staff    average by project                 Non-pilot regions:

                                            completion                         44.6 million rubles
                                                                               per staff
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    06/30/2008                         12/31/2007
                The target was achieved.
Comments        Russian Federation: increase of 126%; Pilot regions: increase of 144%; Non-pilot
(incl. %        regions: increase of 95.6%
achievement)

                Change in the ratio "Total amount of tax revenues collected in all project regions
Indicator 6 :   (adjusted for large taxpayers migration)/total current expenditure of regional
                departments of the Min of Taxes" relative to its change for Russia average
Value           Russian Federation: 122                                        Russian Federation:
quantitative or Pilot Regions: 168          Increase by 11.3                   159
Qualitative)                                                                   Pilot Regions: 159
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    06/30/2008                         03/31/2008
                The target was not achieved.
                Russian Federation: 30.3% increase
Comments        Pilot Regions: 5.4% decrease
(incl. %        Overall result: The Russia average is 35.7 percentage points higher than for the
achievement)    pilot regions


                Strengthen enforcement capacity: Ratio "Additional taxes collected after tax
Indicator 7 :   audits/number of tax audits conducted" in all project regions relative to the
                Russia average

                Russian Federation: 0.38    The value for Pilot                Russian Federation

Value           million rubles per tax      Regions should be                  3.656 million rubles

quantitative or audit                       higher than 10                     per tax audit

Qualitative)    Pilot regions: 0.25 millionpercent  and be not                 Pilot regions: 4.28

                rubles per tax audit        less than the                      million rubles per
                                            Russia average by                  tax audit



                                                 iv

                                          project completion
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  06/30/2008                          03/31/2008
Comments       The target was achieved.
(incl. %       There was 862% increase for Russia and 1612% increase for the Pilot Regions
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values      Target Years
               Ratio "Annual net change in amount of tax arrears in each project region/total
Indicator 1 :  amount of tax arrears at the beginning of the year" as compared to the nominal
               growth of Regional Domestic Product and the same ratio for Russia average

Value          Russian Federation: 1.8%                                       Russian Federation:

(quantitative  Pilot regions: 10.1%       No target values                    30.1%

or Qualitative)                           were specified.                     Pilot regions:
                                                                              15.2%
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  06/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments       The target was not achieved for pilot regions. However this target was for
(incl. %       monitoring purposes only: the nominal growth rate of regional domestic product
achievement)   was a variable outside the control of the tax administration or the government.

Indicator 2 :  Average time taken by selected categories of taxpayers to prepare their tax
               declarations
                                                                              Pilot Regions: 6.8
                                                                              hours for legal
                                                                              entities and sole
                                                                              proprietors
                                                                              (compared to 4.3
Value                                                                         hours for non-pilot
(quantitative  N/A                        N/A                                 regions);
or Qualitative)                                                               5.6 hours for
                                                                              individuals
                                                                              (compared to 7.2
                                                                              hours in non-pilot
                                                                              regions)

Date achieved 12/31/2003                  06/30/2008                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The target was partially acheived. The average time for individuals in non-pilot

achievement)   regions exceeds the same indicator for pilot region by more than 28%

Indicator 3 :  Actual experiences and perceptions of taxpayers regarding the quality of service
               provided by the tax administration, measured through periodic surveys
                                                                              Pilot Regions:
Value                                                                         55.3% of
(quantitative  N/A                        N/A                                 individuals and
or Qualitative)                                                               48.6% of legal
                                                                              entities and sole



                                               v

                                                                              proprietors
                                                                              satisfied, compared
                                                                              to 22.9% and
                                                                              31.3%,
                                                                              respectively, not
                                                                              satisfied.

Date achieved 12/31/2003                   06/30/2008                         03/31/2008
Comments       The target was achieved. The percentage of satisfied individuals as well as legal
(incl. %       entities and sole proprietors increased and areas needing improvement were also
achievement)   identified through the survey.

Indicator 4 :  Perception of taxpayers regarding the quality of service provided by the tax
               administration, measured through periodic surveys (achieved)
                                                                              Pilot Regions
                                                                              #55.3% of
                                                                              individuals and
                                                                              48.6% of legal

Value                                                                         entities and sole

(quantitative  N/A                          N/A                               proprietors

or Qualitative)                                                               satisfied, compared
                                                                              to 22.9% and
                                                                              31.3%,
                                                                              respectively, not
                                                                              satisfied.

Date achieved 12/31/2003                   06/30/2008                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved; percentage of satisfied individuals as well as legal entities and sole

achievement)   proprietors increased

               Actual experiences and perceptions of managers and staff regarding the level of
Indicator 5 :  professional skills in different functional areas, as measured through periodic
               surveys
                                                                              Within the last 3
                                                                              years on average
                                                                              74.6% of
                                                                              respondents
                                                                              considered
                                           Improved actual                    professional skills
Value                                      experiences and                    training was
(quantitative  No baseline was             perception; more                   adequately
or Qualitative)established                 positive                           provided (quality)
                                           experience                         where demand was
                                                                              high (in pilot
                                                                              regions); in non-
                                                                              pilot regions the
                                                                              same figure was
                                                                              76.3%
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   06/30/2008                         12/31/2007
Comments       It is not possible to calculate the percentage achievement. But data show an



                                                 vi

(incl. %       uptrend in tax administration employees' positive experience and perceptions.
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  Perception of managers and staff regarding the level of professional skills in
               different functional areas, as measured through periodic surveys
                                                                            Within last 3 years
                                                                            on average 74.6%
                                                                            of respondents
                                                                            considered
                                                                            professional skills

Value                                      Improved                         training was

(quantitative  Was not established         perception and                   adequately

or Qualitative)                            more positive                    provided (quality)
                                           experience                       where demand was
                                                                            high (in pilot
                                                                            regions); in non-
                                                                            pilot regions the
                                                                            same figure was
                                                                            76.3%
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   06/30/2008                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Not possible to calculate % achievement. But data show an uptrend in tax service

achievement)   employees positive experience and perceptions.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/17/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/26/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     11/06/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.00
  4     03/12/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.20
  5     12/29/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     11.00
  6     06/06/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    30.33
  7     02/11/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     51.46
  8     02/13/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     67.39
  9     10/29/2007         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    67.90

  10    05/13/2008           Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     71.24

  11    06/28/2008    Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     72.23



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal fiscal reforms had become central to the medium-term structural reforms of
the Russian Federation. By 2000 public expenditures were less than 15 percent of GDP.
For the first time the federal budget showed a surplus of over 1.5 percent of GDP and the
regional budget a surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP--with total revenues equal to 16 percent
and expenditures 15.1 percent of GDP, respectively. These results occurred largely
because of a sharp increase in federal revenue, which rose to 16 percent of GDP in 2000
and 17.6 percent of GDP in 2001, compared to 13.4 percent in 1999--even though there
was a substantial reduction in tax rates. This surplus however was mainly due to revenues
associated with the oil and gas sectors, an increase in intensity in tax collection efforts
(particularly close monitoring of the largest taxpayers), and tax buoyancy from a rebound
in growth. Moreover, all revenues collected at the federal level beginning in 2000 were in
cash.

The improved fiscal position reflected a renewed Government emphasis on establishing
control over Russia's public finances, and recognition that strong fiscal discipline was
essential for economic and industrial recovery; however, the sustainability of the fiscal
position was considered vulnerable for several reasons. First, prospects for sustainable
growth and the resulting revenue buoyancy remained questionable in view of the time
needed for implementation of structural reforms. Second, given the huge agenda of
reforms and the accompanying fiscal costs, adequate budgetary resources were needed
for a well-sequenced, integrated and affordable program of structural reforms. Third,
budget revenues were highly sensitive to changes in the international price of Russian oil.
Fourth, the dynamics of Russia's external outflows were onerous, with peaks in debt
repayments in 2003, 2005, and 2008. In the absence of an integrated fiscal strategy, the
debt dynamics posed a serious risk to budgetary outcomes and macroeconomic
management. And finally, institutional arrangements for budgetary management were
underdeveloped, particularly in the regions, which undermined effective budget
preparation, implementation, and evaluation.

Government initiatives to address these risks in the short run included the development of
a program of Priority Measures for 2000-2001 (Directive No. 1072-p dated July 26,
2000), which sought to accelerate a program of macroeconomic, social, and structural
reforms in an integrated manner. The implementation of the fiscal components of this
program already had by 2003 resulted in improvements in inter-governmental fiscal
arrangements, strengthening of treasury management, a substantial reduction in
budgetary arrears and non-payments, and initiation of detailed analyses of expenditure
efficiency. Tax policy and tax administration reforms were key elements of this program,
to be addressed over the medium term.

Objectives of the government's tax reform initiative. The initial objectives of reforming
the tax system were to: (i) improve the investment climate and create conditions for



                                              1

achieving a balanced budget; (ii) lower tax rates and share them more equitably; (iii)
simplify the tax system; and (iv) improve the overall tax administration. The Government
objectives for development of the tax system in the long-run were delineated in the so-
called "Gref II" strategy report, "Basic Trends in Social and Economic Policy of the
Government of the Russian Federation over the Long Term, 2001," and further
elaborated in the medium-term program of social and economic development of the
Russian Federation for 2002-2004 (Government Order #910-r, July 10, 2001).

Both reports described the government's intention to implement substantial tax policy
reforms and underscored the necessity to simplify the tax system and eliminate features
that created obstacles to private sector development. Emphasis was on the importance of
fairness and equity of the tax system for private sector development and reducing the
overall tax burden for law-abiding taxpayers. This required a balanced and
comprehensive approach to tax reform. Achieving tax policy reform objectives, including
rationalizing the revenue potential of the tax system--e.g., the reduction of the VAT rate,
and phasing out the sales tax--required measures to increase the efficiency of the tax
administration to avoid overall revenue losses.

The Gref strategy report--in addition to proposing a number of legal changes to facilitate
the detection and prosecution of tax evasion cases--and adjusting the balance between
taxpayers' rights and obligations in Part I of the Tax Code--went into considerable detail
outlining a number of specific tax administration reform requirements. These key
initiatives were incorporated into the TAMP II project. They included organizational
changes, such as the creation of regional inspectorates, reform of the dispute resolution
mechanisms, better cooperation and information exchange with other government
agencies, and creation of efficient data processing centers.

The Government strategy recognized that the current tax administration organization,
management, and operations did not facilitate efficient and fair collection of revenues,
and led to widespread tax evasion and frustration by the business community--as attested
to by the outcomes of the TAMP I project (see Box 1 below). This was the perception of
the general public as well, as reported in taxpayer surveys conducted in Moscow and
Nizhny Novgorod (Taxpayer and Tax Inspector Survey, PricewaterhouseCoopers, June
2001). The results showed that on average more than 50 percent of taxpayers were
convinced that any taxpayer could easily hide income, and that tax inspectors could not
detect tax evaders. It was generally recognized that tax policy as well directly impacted
budget revenues and tax compliance.

The Government committed itself to supporting fundamental tax administration reform,
and along with it strengthening the then new Ministry of Taxes and Fees (MinTax). As
noted above, the Russian Government at the time of project initiation was also engaged in
a comprehensive program to reform the tax code. In general, tax policy issues were
addressed in the context of the Government's own tax policy reform program in tandem
with IMF and Bank operations. As a result of the tax policy reform, Part II of the Tax
Code came into effect in 2001, which introduced significant changes and reduced
statutory tax burdens.



                                               2

                          Box 1. TAMP I Objectives and Achievements

The key TAMP I objectives were to: (a) pilot reforms of the State Tax Service (STS) in two
regions with about 110 local offices through reorganization of structures, introduction of new
procedures and staff training; and (b) assist in the institutional development of tax administration
by building capacity, preparing the nationwide implementation of tax administration reforms, and
supporting project management.

The main achievements of TAMP I were: (i) functional reorganization of local tax inspectorates
in the pilot regions; (ii) successful software development to handle VAT and profits tax; (iii)
establishment of new taxpayer services at the regional level, including press, TV, workshops,
newsletters, telephone computer messages, textbooks, extensive taxpayer education, branches for
taxpayer assistance and advisory services, etc.; (iv) completion of an extensive staff development
program that provided almost 30,000 person-days of training and produced core training
programs and teaching materials to facilitate reforms throughout the country; and (v) preparation
of a wide range of analytical studies and strategies on modernization, including a tax
administration, strategy, a taxpayer education strategy, a national audit plan, independent review
of regional pilots, development of national guidelines and strategies, a national automation
strategy, and other studies.


Expanding on the results of the TAMP I project, a full-scale tax administration reform
was agreed (Russian Federation Resolution 25.05.1995, No. 527), as well as a Program of
Cooperation between the Russian Federation and the World Bank for calendar years
2002-04, based on which, with support from the IMF and US Treasury, MinTax prepared
an initial strategic plan. The strategic plan was revised in March 2001 and incorporated
into the new priorities of the Government, drawing on the results of a project
identification seminar organized in November 2000. This strategic plan then formed the
basis of a Federal Earmarked Program for Development of Tax Administration, formally
adopted by the Government. This became the basis for the TAMP II project

1.2. Project Development Objective. The project development objective of TAMP II
centered on carrying out a systematic reform and modernization of the RF tax
administration to: facilitate voluntary compliance, increase administrative efficiency,
strengthen enforcement capacity, enhance professional integrity and skills, and improve
tax legislation and fairness in the implementation of tax laws. As such, the project
supported the government's strategic goals of promoting macro-economic stability,
improving the environment for private sector development, and strengthening public
institutions.

The project sought to facilitate voluntary compliance by: (a) instilling a service culture
within the tax administration; (b) improving the quality of taxpayer services; (c) fostering
the development of taxpayer advisory services both in the tax administration and the
private sector; (d) simplifying forms and procedures; (e) developing e-Government
capacity to enable filing of tax declarations, payment of taxes, and providing information
and services to taxpayers electronically; and (f) promoting a better understanding of the
tax system by the general public through communication campaigns and possible
inclusion of tax-related topics in school curricula.



                                                  3

The project sought to increase administrative efficiency by: (a) supporting the
development of a functional organizational structure at Ministry of Taxes and Fees and
successor agencies headquarters and in regional and local offices; (b) creating Data
Processing Centers (DPCs) at the federal and regional levels to exploit economies of
scale in routine data processing; (c) consolidating local offices; (d) standardizing
workflows based on re-engineered business processes; and (e) automating key
operational and management processes.

TAMP II sought to strengthen enforcement capacity by: (a) implementing a third-party
information system to enable improved monitoring of taxable transactions; (b) enhancing
tax audit and investigation capacity; (c) improving collection of tax arrears; and (d)
increasing effectiveness in management of large taxpayers.

The project sought to promote professional integrity and skills by: (a) establishing a
specific code of ethics and conduct for the tax administration; (b) improving the incentive
structure; (c) implementing strategies and business processes that reduce the opportunity
for breeches in professional ethics; (d) strengthening human resource management; (e)
training managers and staff in different functional areas; and (f) creating a professional
development infrastructure for continuous upgrading of skills.

TAMP II also sought to improve tax legislation and equity and fairness when
implementing tax laws by: (a) assisting MOF in proposing changes to tax legislation and
regulatory acts; (b) educating taxpayers about the tax code, administrative procedures,
taxpayer services, and taxpayer rights and obligations; (c) improving the tax
administration's capacity to administer the tax laws uniformly and consistently
throughout the country; (d) increasing the objectivity, impartiality, and efficiency of
dispute resolution mechanisms; and (e) enhancing the responsiveness of the tax
administration through improved interaction with taxpayers and other stakeholders.

1.2. Key Performance Indicators:

Based on information available at project appraisal, baseline values were established and
project targets were agreed with the tax authorities. Several indicators were to contrast
progress in the reformed regions under TAMP I with the non-modernized regions by
comparison with country-wide data. As a result of improved access to federal budget
funds and recognition of the importance of systemic adoption of project outcomes being
observed in the pilot regions, most of the project products were subsequently rolled out to
all regions under federal programs. Consequently, some of the project indicators now
have less significance at project completion than originally intended. The indicators can
be grouped under the following heads:

Macro-economic Stability and Private Sector Development:
        Average time taken by new businesses to register with tax authorities

Voluntary Compliance



                                              4

       Number of tax declarations received on time/Total number of tax declarations
        filed
       Change in the ratio "Tax revenues paid voluntarily/Total tax revenues collected"
        in each project region as compared to the change in the Russia average
       Average time taken by selected categories of taxpayers to prepare their tax
        declarations
       Taxpayers' actual experiences and perceptions regarding the quality of service
        provided by the tax administration, as measured through periodic surveys

Efficiency
       Average number of days taken to identify and notify registered taxpayers who
        fail to file tax declarations or pay taxes
       Change in the ratio "Amount of taxes collected in a project region (adjusted for
        large taxpayers' migration)/Number of tax administration civil servants" in each
        project region as compared to its change for the average for Russia
       Change in the ratio "Total current expenditure of regional departments of the
        Federal Tax Service/Total amount of tax revenue collected in all project regions
        (adjusted for large taxpayers' migration)" as compared to its change for the
        average for Russia

Enforcement Capacity
       Ratio "Additional taxes collected after tax audits/ Number of tax audits
        conducted" in each project region as compared to the average for Russia

Professional Integrity and Skills
       Perception of taxpayers and other stakeholders regarding the level of honesty of
        tax administration staff, measured through periodic surveys
       Perceptions of managers and staff regarding the level of professional skills in
        selected functional areas, measured through periodic surveys

Equity and Fairness
       Perception of taxpayers and other stakeholders regarding impact of tax policy on
        business climate, its predictability, uniformity and consistency in administration
        of tax laws, and impartiality and fairness of administrative appeals mechanisms,
        measured through periodic surveys




                                               5

            Hierarchy of Objectives                 Key Performance Indicators
Project Development Objective:                Outcome/Impact Indicators
Facilitate voluntary compliance                    Number of tax declarations received on
                                                    time/total number of tax declarations filed
                                                   Change in ratio of "tax revenues paid
                                                    voluntarily/total tax revenues collected," in
                                                    each project region relative to its change
                                                    for Russia average by 2 percentage points
                                                    by project completion
                                                   Percentage of tax returns that are filed by
                                                    mail or electronically
                                                   Average time taken by selected categories
                                                    of taxpayers to prepare their tax
                                                    declarations
                                                   Perception of taxpayers regarding the
                                                    quality of service provided by the tax
                                                    administration, measured through periodic
                                                    surveys.

                                                   Average number of days taken to notify
Increase administrative efficiency
                                                    registered taxpayers who fail to pay taxes
                                                    on time
                                                   Change in a ratio "Amount of taxes
                                                    collected in each project region (adjusted
                                                    for large taxpayers migration)/number of
                                                    tax administration civil servants" in all
                                                    project regions relative to its change for
                                                    Russia average--by 6.5 percentage points,
                                                    and in each project region, the ratio should
                                                    be higher than Russia average by project
                                                    completion
                                                   Change in ratio "Total amount of tax
                                                    revenues collected in all project regions
                                                    (adjusted for large taxpayers
                                                    migration)/total current expenditure of
                                                    regional departments of the Federal Tax
                                                    Service relative to its change for Russia
                                                    average--by 11.3 percentage points by
                                                    project completion

                                                   Ratio "Additional taxes collected after tax
Strengthen enforcement capacity
                                                    audits/number of tax audits conducted" in
                                                    all project regions relative to the Russia
                                                    average--higher than 10 percent and be not
                                                    less than the Russia average by project
                                                    completion
                                                   Ratio " Annual net change in amount of tax
                                                    arrears in each project region/total; amount
                                                    of tax arrears at the beginning of the year"
                                                    as compared to the nominal growth of
                                                    Regional Domestic Product and the same
                                                    ratio for Russia average


Enhance professional integrity and skills          Perception of taxpayers and other
                                                    stakeholders regarding the level of integrity
                                                     f t    d i i t tion staff, as meas     d


                                             6

                                                         of tax administration staff, as measured
                                                         through periodic surveys

                                                        Perception of managers and staff regarding
                                                         the level of professional skills in different
                                                         functional areas, as measured through
                                                         periodic surveys

Improve tax legislation and increase fairness in the    Perception of taxpayers and other
administration of the tax laws                           stakeholders regarding impact of tax policy
                                                         on business climate, its predictability,
                                                         uniformity and consistency in
                                                         administration of tax laws, and impartiality
                                                         and fairness of appellate mechanisms



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Because of the profound change in Russia's economic environment and the Federal Tax
Service decision to apply project outcomes to non-project regions using budget funds, the
Borrower during the penultimate supervision mission asked that some more appropriate
indicators of the Federal Earmarked Program for Modernization of Tax Administration in
2005-2008, not included in the TAMP II project, be used in lieu of some Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs) agreed with the Government and appraisal and appearing
in the PAD. It was agreed that in the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR these "new"
indicators could be used as supplements to, but not substitutes for, the original KPIs.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The benefits of TAMP II accrued to the citizens and firms in the Russian Federation in
the form of more stable and predictable revenue flows which financed the delivery of
public services, promoted better economic and financial management of public resources,
stimulated productivity by creating better business incentives, and reduced informal
economic activity.

Honest and complying taxpayers benefited from reduced compliance costs and overall
reduction of the tax burden because of higher compliance rates, which, in turn,
contributed to bringing about lower tax rates. The project contributed to spreading the
tax burden more evenly, with the noncompliant taxpayer burden actually increasing, as
evasion became more costly and time-consuming. Improvements in the tax
administration procedural code contributed to improving the business climate by
increasing predictability of application of the tax legislation and reducing inconsistencies
between different laws and regulations, making it easier for taxpayers to understand and
apply tax laws. Taxpayers also benefited from improved taxpayer services, access to
better information from the tax administration, and reduction of time spent in queues to
file tax returns. Taxpayers' rights were strengthened through more efficient and equitable
appeals processes.




                                                    7

In addition, compliant businesses and the self-employed benefited from quicker
processing of tax refunds, faster registration processes, and by less competition from
underground business activities. Greater incentives for private sector development were
created as a result of clearer "rules of the game" and lower taxes to create a more
favorable investment climate.

Another key beneficiary was the federal government and in particular the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development. They benefited from a
progressively modernized tax administration, enabling more effective revenue forecasting
and collection, leading in turn to more effective budget planning, budget execution,
public investment planning/programming, fiscal transfers, and delivery of public services.
Lastly, the Federal Tax Service and its staff was a key beneficiary  benefiting from
modernization of business processes and investments in information technology
infrastructure and applications.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project financed consulting services, training and goods to support activities under
three general areas of Tax Administration Management, Tax Administration Operations,
and Project Management. These areas were divided among 11 subcomponents:
Organization and Management; Human Resources and Training; Infrastructure; Legal,
Regulatory and Appeals Framework; Unified State Register of Taxpayers; Development
of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems; Audit and Investigation;
Arrears Management; Taxpayer Services Development; Largest Taxpayer Units; and
Project Management.

I. Tax Administration Management

A. Organization and Management - US$ 3.6 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01
million recurrent cost)

Sub-component 1: Organizational structure - US$ 0.4 million (base cost). This financed
the implementation of a functional organizational restructuring at both regional and local
levels, including the reorganization of territorial and local tax offices, refurbishment of
offices to support the reorganization, and further development of a federal level structure
based on the findings of the organizational structure analysis.

Sub-component 2: Management System - US$0.4 million (base cost). This financed the
review and strengthening of FTS organizational units, formulation of an operational
strategy, setting targets for different operational areas, developing indicators to measure
performance, preparing annual business plans, preparing budgets, assessing workload and
allocating resources. It also helped strengthen the Internal Audit Department by
improvement of communication systems between and within the FTS and its territorial
offices and between the FTS and related government agencies.




                                               8

Sub-component 3: Development of standardized workflows in tax administration at all
levels - US$0.2 million (base cost). This financed the re-engineering of business
processes for organization and management in inter-regional, regional and local offices,
including the development of manuals and documenting standard processes to be
followed by all offices.

Sub-component 4: Revenue forecasting and tax modeling - US$ 1.0 million (base cost).
This element financed the development and implementation of a revenue forecasting and
tax modeling system.

Sub-component 5: Change Management - US$1.6 million (base cost). This supported the
development and implementation of appropriate strategies for managing organizational
change at all levels of the tax administration, including communication strategies to
explain the rationale and potential impact of proposed changes to all managers, staff,
taxpayers and other stakeholders.

B. Human Resources and Training - US$11.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.2
million recurrent cost)

Sub-component 1: Human Resource Management - US$0.6 million (base cost). The sub-
component supported, as a long-term objective, the development of transparent and
standard procedures for the recruitment, selection, hiring and dismissal of personnel and
developing career paths based on the new functional organization occupational
categories. In the short-term, this sub-component assisted the FTS to develop a salary and
benefits reform package to the extent possible, including building in performance
incentives based on transparent criteria for wage setting and benefits.

Sub-component 2: Training Delivery - US$11.0 million (base cost). This financed the
development of actual training to be delivered to project regions and headquarters during
project implementation. Training was focused on the implementation needs of each
technical component of the project and was provided in packages by experts and
subsequently delivered to the regions.

Sub-component 3: Improve Professional Ethics - US$0.3 million (base cost). This sub-
component supported the improvement of FTS capacity to manage professional ethics by
developing legislation and other regulatory and legal acts related to the protection of tax
officials from illegal encroachments, and provided technical assistance in developing and
implementing a strategy for the prevention of potential offences on the part of certain tax
authority officials and developed methods for assessing staff integrity and the fair
treatment of the taxpayers, including development of a code of ethics.

C. Infrastructure - US$111.0 million (base cost, including US$ 7.7 million recurrent
cost).

Sub-component 1: Establishment of the Federal (Interregional) Data Processing Center
(FDPC) - US$14.9 million (base cost). This financed the establishment of an FDPC in



                                              9

Moscow through legislative changes, preparation of physical facilities, procurement and
implementation of adequate hardware, software and telecommunications equipment, and
optimization of the number of personnel and redistribution of functions among the FDPC,
Regional Data Processing Centers (RDPCs) and territorial tax authorities.

Sub-component 2: Establishment of RDPCs - US$28.0 million (base cost). This sub-
component established RDPCs through legislative changes, preparation of physical
facilities, procurement and implementation of adequate hardware, software and
telecommunications equipment, and optimization of the number of personnel and
redistribution of functions among the FDPC, RDPCs and territorial tax authorities.

Sub-component 3: IT Infrastructure - US$50.5 million (base cost). This sub-component
designed a corporate telecommunications network and designed, developed and
implemented as well as provided maintenance for an advanced information technology
system to support all aspects of tax administration. This component also designed and
implemented a human resource management information system and a Financial
Management and Financial Asset Management Information system to enable the FTS to
manage its administrative resources effectively.

Sub-component 4: Physical Infrastructure - US$10.1 million (base cost). This sub-
component adapted the current physical infrastructure of the tax administration to meet
the standards necessary to support automation and functional distribution of work. It also
refurbished and renovated administrative buildings, buildings of interregional
inspectorates; improved storage facilities for tax documents, as well as carried out
activities to establish security systems for facilities of the tax administration, including
fire protection and protection of data from criminal actions.

II. Tax Administration Operations

A. Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework - US$3.5 million (base cost).

Sub-component 1: Legal and Regulatory Framework - US$3.0 million (base cost). This
sub-component supported the FTS in the development of comprehensive tax policy in
Russia. It also assisted the Ministry of Finance and the FTS in reviewing the current tax
legal and regulatory framework and preparing proposals for introducing amendments to
legal and regulatory acts, as well as drafting new legislative and regulatory acts to take
into account short- and long-term policy priorities. The component improved the
consistency between various legal and regulatory acts and harmonization of laws and
rules at federal, regional and local levels. It also simplified procedures and ensured the
tax administration had sufficient powers to administer tax laws.

Sub-component 2: Appeals - US$ 0.5 million (base cost). This sub-component
strengthened the overall appeals system by carrying out informational campaigns for
taxpayers related to the new system; holding experiencing-sharing meetings with the
judiciary to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the court appeals system,
specifically what court procedures can be undertaken when tax decisions are appealed;



                                               10

and the development of a database of precedents based on court decisions of tax cases
that could be used to help FTS decide what cases to pursue in court and how to prosecute
them.

B. Unified State Register of Taxpayers - US$1.1 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1
million recurrent cost). This component supported software development and
implementation to improve the Unified State Register of Taxpayers, including reviewing
and proposing changes to legislation and regulations to require the application of a
taxpayer identification number (TIN) to specific economic transactions.

C. Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 6.7
million (base cost, including US$ 0.3 million recurrent cost)

Sub-component 1: Electronic filing - US$5.1 million (base cost). This sub-component
financed preparation of requirements analysis and specifications, developing and
implementing an e-filing system, devising incentives for taxpayers to use e-filing, and
communication campaigns and training of taxpayers to encourage e-filing.

Sub-component 2: Tax Payment Accounting Systems - US$ 1.3 million (base cost). This
sub-component financed the development of the architecture of the system for data
interchange with the Treasury system, as well as procurement of software, hardware, and
telecommunications services.

D. Audit and Investigation - US $7.9 million (base cost, including US$ 0.1 million
recurrent cost). This component strengthened the FTS audit capacity by developing a
third-party information system, developing and implementing a computerized desk and
field audit systems, developing and implementing a computerized system for selection of
field audit cases, piloting the system for checking VAT invoices, strengthening
intelligence and investigation operations and cooperation with financial police, and
implementing a system for processing and accumulating data on citizen incomes and
property.

E. Arrears Management - US $1.1 million (base cost). This component supported
activities to improve the techniques and procedures for recovery of tax arrears, assisted in
improving the data exchange system with the Bank of Russia to retrieve data on the
amount of arrears accumulated by problem banks, reviewed and implemented the arrears
management information system and policy, and developed guidelines and procedures to
write off uncollectible arrears.

F. Taxpayer Services Development - US $1.8 million (base cost, including US$ 0.01
million recurrent cost).

Sub-component 1: Concept development for a comprehensive tax education system for
RF citizens - US$ 0.1 million (base cost). This sub-component financed the design of a
national strategy for production and dissemination of educational materials related to
taxation.



                                             11

Sub-component 2: Taxpayer information and consultancy service - US$1.6 million (base
cost). This sub-component helped develop taxpayer information and consultancy services
including the development of service standards for the whole country and explanatory
materials to guide taxpayers in compliance with tax laws. It further assisted in the design
and implementation of portals and web sites of FTS and its regional departments for
disseminating material on current tax legislation issues.

Sub-component 3: Introduction of the self-assessment principle for filing tax returns and
related documents - US$0.1 million (base cost). This sub-component assisted in
simplification and unification of tax forms while ensuring that data necessary for auditing
and reconciliation of tax returns was provided by taxpayers, and developed easily
understandable tax return filing instructions for taxpayers.

G. Largest Taxpayer Units - US $0.7 million (base cost). This component developed
methodologies for effective management of large taxpayers, including an analysis of the
organizational characteristics of these enterprises and the impact of their restructuring on
the tax base and tax revenues, as well as developed and implemented methods and
software for forecasting the revenues and tax burden of these taxpayers.

III. Project Management - US $4.0 million (base cost; no recurrent costs were planned
for this component)

Sub-component 1: Project Management - US$3.7 million (base cost). This sub-
component financed project management and implementation costs.

Sub-component 2: Evaluation system to assess the effectiveness of activities carried out
in the Tax Administration Modernization Project - US$0.4 million (base cost). This sub-
component financed the analysis of implementation progress; periodic surveys of
taxpayers, managers and staff of FTS, and other stakeholders to solicit actual experiences
and perceptions about improvements in tax administration, to identify continuing
problems, and to propose measures to improve agency performance.

1.6 Revised Components
N/A

1.7 Other significant changes
The project was subject to an unanticipated setback which unfortunately detracted from
its otherwise impressive progress and impact. In 2006, following a several-month long
investigation of TAMP II by the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) of the Russian
Federation (during which implementation and disbursements came to a complete halt),
the OPG declared that as the TAMP II Loan Agreement had not been ratified by the
Duma (legislature) it did not have the status of an international treaty, and thus the FTS
had no basis for applying World Bank procurement processes under TAMP II. The OPG
opined that project procurement should have been undertaken in accordance with Russian
Federation procurement legislation, demanded immediate cessation of the application of
World Bank procurement processes, and for immediate application of national


                                             12

procurement processers forthwith. As a result, project procurement and disbursements
remained suspended till almost mid-2007 until the Borrower's authorities (the Prime
Minister's office, the Ministry of Finance, the then Ministry of Economic Development
and Trade, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other entities) with
the Bank team's full and active support reviewed the matter in detail, determined that all
actions taken by the FTS to implement the project were indeed fully legal and that no
violation of any laws had occurred (see paragraph 2.4 below for a full explanation).
However, the halt in procurement and disbursements caused a protracted delay in project
implementation. Moreover, the FTS leadership, shaken by these events, decided to close
the project on schedule and not seek an extension of the closing date (even though some
activities remained unimplemented). The World Bank subsequently agreed with the FTS
proposal not to implement 13 procurement packages from Component I.B, so as to close
the project as originally scheduled. Despite the interruption, the pace of project
implementation ultimately revived and the FTS is committed to implementing these
above activities using resources from the federal budget.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The quality at entry was rated High. TAMP II supported the strengthening of public
sector management, one of three pillars of the June 2002 joint Bank-IFC CAS, and fit
well with overall country objectives. The need to modernize the tax service was
reflected in the 1999 CAS, and subsequently endorsed by the 2001 CAS Progress
Report, as a priority area for Bank support to public sector reforms. The Bank realized
early on that this would be a high risk project but with equally high potential benefits.

The Bank adopted a phased approach to supporting the reforms. The objective of the first
Tax Administration Modernization Project (TAMP I) was to demonstrate the
applicability of key modern tax administration concepts in the Russian environment, by
piloting alternative models of revenue collection in the Volgograd and Nizhny Novgorod
regions (for business taxes) and in Moscow (for personal income taxes), and supported
the introduction of Large Taxpayer Units. The second project, TAMP II, included the
national deployment of institutional development instruments resulting from the first
project; however, it went much further by strengthening the whole institution of tax
administration and its systems. After the fiscal crisis of 1998, the Bank reformulated
its strategic approach to country assistance in Russia. One dimension was to place
more emphasis on developing the institutional basis for effective macroeconomic
stabilization, and within this effort to concentrate on effective implementation of
reform efforts. Tax and customs administrations, on the revenue side, along with the
Treasury system on the expenditure side, were the three key elements for building
government capacity for fiscal management.

TAMP II preparation drew heavily on lessons learned from TAMP I. TAMP I was
basically a regional effort, with little direct project linkage, political or administratively,
to the central headquarters of the then State Tax Service (STS) in Moscow, except for its


                                                13

information technology activities which were fully coordinated. Nevertheless, some
elements of TAMP I had potential system-wide implications. It piloted advanced
computerized revenue collection systems in one region that potentially could be
replicated across the country. It also developed improved auditing software aimed at
large taxpayers, with comprehensive institution-building through a comprehensive
managerial and technical staff training and human resource rationalization plan.

As TAMP II was being prepared, the STS was transformed into the Ministry of Taxes
and Fees (MinTax), in recognition, at the political level, of its pivotal role in the overall
modernization program of the Russia Federation. This also reflected high Government
and Borrower commitment to TAMP II goals and activities at the time of preparation.

Lessons learned and incorporated into the project design:

The project design incorporated lessons learned from TAMP I and tax reform efforts in
other regions of the world, including those in transition economies. These included:

(i) Tax administration reform can succeed only with strong high-level political will and
commitment complemented by sustained technical support from the tax administration.
Both were in evidence during project preparation.

(ii) A medium to long-term strategic vision, owned by the implementing agency, is a pre-
requisite for a sustained tax administration reform and capacity-building. This was
provided by both the government and supported by Russia's development partners.

(iii) Successful tax administration reforms must address institutional constraints to tax
administration performance, and not center reforms exclusively on information
technology and systems solutions. A strong institutional capacity development aspect
was built into all components. Specifically, a change management element was created
through Thematic (component) Groups at the operational level to ensure commitment
and continuity of project objectives and activities.

(iv) Business process re-engineering and related automated applications must be fully
(though gradually) integrated throughout the tax administration, with appropriate
management of the organizational transition-including human resource and training
aspects-as a central part of this process. This was an integral part of project preparation
activities and was reflected in TAMP II project design.

(v) Development of application systems software is often a major bottleneck. Application
systems software should be developed and fully tested early in the project cycle, and
equipment purchases made after the software is successfully piloted. This was
incorporated in project activity sequencing to the extent possible. In spite of the attention
to it, difficulties associated to software development were still a significant source of
implementation delays.




                                              14

(vi) Efforts to control the potential for corrupt behavior by tax officials require a
comprehensive strategy aimed at reducing the motive and opportunity for corruption, and
providing incentives for integrity to take hold. This was addressed by creating greater
transparency in tax procedures and through implementation of electronic systems to
distance tax officials from taxpayers.

(vii) Creation of a sustainable revenue collection system requires both tax policy and tax
administration reform. Tax policy reforms were initiated by the government before and
during the project in parallel with the strengthening the organization and systems of the
tax administration under TAMP II.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation began as expected, with disbursements made as scheduled and
strong commitment from the tax administration from April 2003 through the end of 2004.
Entity restructuring and management changes. On December 29, 2004, MinTax was
restructured into the FTS reporting to the Ministry of Finance. One consequence of the
restructuring was loss of the previous counterparts at the executive level, i.e., the Minister
of Taxes and Fees and deputy minister/head of the project implementation unit, as well as
head of large taxpayer unit to other government bodies, plus the Head of the Thematic
Group. The management change caused a six-month hiatus, affecting primarily new
activities, while the new management carried out a thorough investigation of the use of
funds under the project. Further delays ensued while the new team ramped up its
knowledge of the project intricacies and Bank process and procedures. Despite these
unexpected changes, the organizational capacity and new functional organization
eventually enabled the project to resume implementation at a good pace and
disbursements to be made at an accelerated pace for most components.
Mid-term review. Reflecting the implementation delays due to changes in project and
FTS management, the mid-term review took place November 20-26, 2006--a year and
half later than originally scheduled--after the pace of implementation had been brought
back to normal and the project was nearly two-thirds complete, and over 60 percent of
Loan proceeds disbursed. The review was essentially positive. The project development
objectives were found to be relevant by the Bank team and the new FTS management;
procurement and financial management were deemed satisfactory; and the project
remained in compliance with legal covenants. The amount of loan proceeds disbursed
also generally conformed to Bank expectations. The Bank noted positive trends,
especially in the pilot regions, with data suggesting that the project might meet its overall
project development objectives. The mid-term review noted delays in the project
component related to enhancement of professional integrity and skills.

Risk Status

Risks identified during project development and the results at the ICR stage are
summarized in the table below.




                                              15

Risk                       Risk     Risk Mitigation Measure          Project Results
                           Rating
From Outputs to
Objective
Weakness over time of the      S    Project design included early    This risk proved to be
commitment to implement             participation and commitment     substantial. The
the deep changes sought             of the executive management      initial commitment to
by the project                      of FTS and line managers.        the project was high;
                                    Project implementation design    however, after the
                                    called for assigning             government
                                    responsibility for change        restructuring, in 2004,
                                    management to line managers      two years into the
                                    in charge of the functional area project, top level
                                    being modernized to maintain     commitment was
                                    agency-wide support ad           somewhat reduced for
                                    commitment to the project,       a time as well as the
                                    Stakeholder consultations and    ability to implement
                                    strong public information        fundamental
                                    campaigns were expected to       institutional reforms.
                                    lessen this risk. In addition, a The project was
                                    cross-ministerial Project        sustained by its
                                    Steering Committee was           integrative strategy,
                                    constituted to ensure            i.e., line managers in
                                    sustainability of support.       charge of program
                                    Moreover, the goals and          change in their
                                    objectives of the Federal-       respective areas of
                                    Targeted Program were to be      responsibility.
                                    fully supported by all project
                                    components. Finally, full
                                    access to and interaction with
                                    the project supervision team
                                    helped mitigate this risk, and
                                    allowed the Bank team to
                                    monitor it closely.

High turnover of senior        S    Efforts were made to             With agency
managers and key                    restructure the salary scale of  restructuring, the
professional and technical          FTS using realistic              Head of FTS, the
staff                               comparators as well as to        Project Director, and
                                    broaden the pay bands to         key staff were
                                    account for differences in       reassigned to other
                                    knowledge and skill levels.      government posts.
                                    This was to be carried out in    New counterparts
                                    the context of a joint human     were designated, but
                                    resource development and         the official
                                    training reform in FTS           appointment of
                                    headquarters and local tax       executives lagged and
                                    offices. Performance pay         created doubts for
                                    incentives were considered as    some time about



                                         16

                                 a reform measure.                government
                                                                  commitment. HR
                                                                  reforms were tied to
                                                                  the civil service
                                                                  reform. In the end,
                                                                  the project survived
                                                                  senior management
                                                                  turnover and the
                                                                  adoption of the new
                                                                  Civil Service Law
                                                                  because of strong
                                                                  middle management
                                                                  capacity and
                                                                  commitment through
                                                                  the Thematic Groups
                                                                  implementing each
                                                                  component.

Internal and external        S   System reforms sought by the     The IT reforms were
agents who perceive a loss       project aimed at reducing        successful in
generated from the               contact between the agency       distancing the agency
planned reform efforts           and the taxpaying public.        from the taxpayer.
may try to impede                There was strong internal        Targeted training did
implementation progress          senior and line management       not follow project
through political or other       support for the changes, for the design in some areas,
means.                           implementation of an internal    but was eventually
                                 code of ethics and conduct,      carried out under the
                                 and for more targeted training   Federal Targeted
                                 in areas critical to             Program and by
                                 implementing the new             vendors. Stakeholder
                                 functional organization. There   consultations and
                                 was also a growing political     public
                                 consensus to combat              communications, as
                                 corruption among public          envisaged by the
                                 officials. Continuity of support project took place late
                                 to measures to increase          in the project. A new
                                 integrity of the tax             Code of Conduct and
                                 administration was crucial to    Ethics was
                                 mitigate this risk, and was      implemented by the
                                 monitored by the Bank team.      FTS. 2008
                                 Building-in a communications     Stakeholder Survey
                                 campaign as well as              data indicate a public
                                 stakeholder consultations were   perception of less
                                 also expected to reduce          corruption in the
                                 opposition.                      project regions, which
                                                                  may be partially
                                                                  attributable to
                                                                  promulgation of the
                                                                  new Code.

Taxpayers, both large and    S   The project sought to promote    The Taxpayer Service



                                      17

small, will not be                 further the taxpaying culture   function was created
prepared for the changing          initiated in the pilot regions  at headquarters and all
relationship with the tax          under TAMP I. FTS               offices. A
administration                     strengthened its taxpayer       comprehensive
                                   services operations by          internal and external
                                   initiating a public             survey carried out late
                                   communications campaign at      on the project showed
                                   all levels providing            generally positive
                                   information legislative and     results and provides
                                   procedural changes and          important benchmarks
                                   established help desks to       for future surveys.
                                   facilitate taxpayer compliance
                                   by explaining taxpayer rights
                                   and obligations. An improved
                                   appeals process was put in
                                   place to better deal with
                                   taxpayer grievances.

Heads of regional tax          M   These measures were strongly    Office closures and
offices may resist creation        supported by FTS headquarters   structural
of more efficient Data             management. This risk was       reorganization
Processing Centers                 mitigated through internal      occurred at the
(DPCs) and the closure of          information campaigns to        beginning of the
inefficient, small local tax       demonstrate the efficiency      project. The DPCs
offices                            advantages of the proposed      were successfully
                                   measures.                       implemented and
                                                                   became key to the
                                                                   processing of tax
                                                                   returns and issuance
                                                                   of tax bills such as
                                                                   those for property tax
                                                                   introduced under the
                                                                   project.

The Government may not         S   The project will seek a         This was not an issue
be able to allocate                thorough estimate of recurrent  during
sufficient counterpart             costs and will include          implementation. The
finds to cover all                 covenants to ensure the         Russian Federation
investment, recurrent              availability of funds.          had ample budget
costs, and tax expenses                                            resources and there
related to the project. It                                         were no issues about
may become particularly                                            allocation of
difficult for the                                                  counterpart funds for
Government to cover the                                            the project during the
personal income taxes                                              life of the project.
(PIT) of project
consultants.

Past regional experience       M   This risk was mitigated both    All IT goods packages
demonstrates that the              on the Borrower and the Bank    were successfully bid
Bank and the Government            sides. Project design carefully and implemented,



                                         18

may not be able to carry         considered the difficulties with despite agency
out Technical Assistance         implementation of TA and IT      restructuring, with
(TA) and Information             packages taking into account     reasonable
Technology (IT)                  the lessons from previous        procurement delays.
procurement efficiently          projects in the Russia portfolio Some TA packages,
and with the integrity           and the regional experience      including a few for
required by a project that       with vulnerabilities in large IT software
is fundamentally                 procurements. Procurement        development,
dependent on both TA and         packages and evaluation          however, were not
IT.                              methodology for the critical     implemented as
                                 first year procurement was       expected.
                                 agreed prior to effectiveness.   Procurement capacity
                                 The Bank team continued to       was high and well
                                 use the decentralized            integrated. In 2005, in
                                 procurement capacity in the      spite of finding no
                                 Bank's Moscow office for         procurement
                                 rapid response and advice to     irregularities, the
                                 FTS, which had proved            OGP opined that all
                                 successful for TAMP I. In        procurement under
                                 addition the Bank team also      the project was
                                 used the services of an IT       illegal, as RF
                                 procurement specialist to        procurement laws
                                 intensively review all IT        were not being
                                 packages under the general       applied, bringing
                                 supervision of the Regional      project
                                 Procurement Manager. While       implementation to a
                                 this led to some delays in       halt and eventually
                                 procurement, it resulted,        causing closing of the
                                 importantly, in successful       project with some
                                 maintenance of the integrity of  activities incomplete.
                                 project procurement, as          It is noteworthy that
                                 evidenced by the failure of      repeated audits and
                                 repeated attempts by the Office investigations by the
                                 of the General Prosecutor and    Chamber of Accounts
                                 the Chamber of Accounts (the     and the Office of the
                                 supreme audit entity) to find a  General Prosecutor
                                 single instance of corruption,   did not reveal a single
                                 collusion or fraud in TAMP II    case of corruption,
                                 procurements.                    collusion or fraud in
                                                                  this very high-risk IT-
                                                                  intensive project.
                                                                  Neither did the
                                                                  Bank's own
                                                                  procurement reviews.

From Components to
Outputs
Full implementation of       S   The clear results of the pilot   The new functional
the new functional               projects in Volgograd and        organization was
organization and                 Nizhny Novgorod, the             rolled out as planned,
incremental expansion to         commitment of top                with incremental



                                       19

productive regional tax           management at MinTax, and         expansion to
offices may be                    the full participation of local   productive regional
constrained by the scope          offices to the transition process offices. However, the
of change and process of          were expected to lessen this      Government
transferring experience           risk. In addition, the Gref       restructuring,
and lessons learned.              Report explicitly set out the     commencing in 2004,
                                  Government's strategy and         had a negative impact
                                  commitment to a deep reform       on the pace of
                                  of both tax policy and            decision-making in
                                  administration over the time      MinTax, restructured
                                  horizon of the loan (five to six  into the Federal Tax
                                  years), which went well           Service under the
                                  beyond, but also provided         MOF, causing
                                  substantial support and           occasional
                                  commitment as expressed by        implementation
                                  MinTax.                           delays. A major
                                                                    unexpected positive
                                                                    result was the rollout
                                                                    of the functional
                                                                    organization to all
                                                                    regions--including
                                                                    non-project regions.

Legal changes needed for      S   A satisfactory new Tax Code       The Duma approved a
implementation of some            was approved by the               revised Tax Code.
of the project activities         legislature, and was being        Positive results of the
may not be enacted in             further improved. Efforts were    changes appear in
time.                             made to identify any additional   stakeholder surveys.
                                  legal changes well in advance.    The Government
                                  MinTax, and subsequently the      continues its effort to
                                  FTS, through its regular          maintain and improve
                                  consultations, explained the      the code to support its
                                  rationale for any changes to the development goals.
                                  Duma.

Parallel financing for        S   To the extent possible, a self-   This was not an issue
activities agreed to be           contained set of activities were  as RF counterpart
financed by other                 identified for financing by       funds and
Development partners              other development partners, so    commitment proved
may not be available on           as to minimize the dependence     sufficient to meet
time for related                  of TAMP II activities on the      project objectives
downstream activities to          outputs of donor-financed
be implemented according          activities. Quality control
to the Project                    arrangements were agreed with
Implementation Plan.              the Development partners to
Also the quality of outputs       ensure maintenance of high
financed through parallel         quality standards.
financing may not be
adequate.

Legal changes proposed        M   Improvement of tax policies       There were numerous



                                        20

to improve overall tax                             was one of the Government's           tax policy changes,
legal framework will not                           top priorities, as spelled out in     including substantial
be enacted.                                        the Gref program. The                 reduction of tax rates
                                                   implementation of activities          and gains in total
                                                   related to the legal framework        revenue collected. A
                                                   development was managed by            follow-up taxpayer
                                                   the Ministry of Finance, a            survey showed
                                                   government agency                     positive results from
                                                   responsible for tax policy            the tax policy
                                                   development, with appropriate         changes.
                                                   participation of the Ministry of
                                                   Taxes and Fees, and
                                                   subsequently the FTS. Periodic
                                                   taxpayer surveys included
                                                   questions on legal policy to
                                                   provide necessary information
                                                   for development of the long-
                                                   term tax policy, as well as
                                                   identification and resolution of
                                                   shortcomings and
                                                   inconsistencies in existing
                                                   legislation.
Overall Risk Rating                    S                                                 S
   Risk rating--H (high risk); S (substantial risk); M (modest risk); N (negligible or low risk)



   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

   A Modernization Department, reporting to the then Minister of Taxes and Fees, was
   created at Headquarters comprising 27 staff who concentrated on the day-to-day
   management of modernization activities. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created
   in the Ministry, chaired by the Head of the Modernization Department and comprised of
   heads or deputy heads of other functional departments responsible for implementation of
   their project components, as well as regional representatives and representatives from
   MOF and MOEDT. The PCU was responsible for project monitoring and evaluation and
   quality assurance, and was authorized to execute any administrative actions necessary to
   implement the project. The Department became the focal point for internal and external
   project relations and was also responsible for benchmarking and tracking agreed project
   indicators, tracking day-to-day progress in project implementation, together with the PIU.
   Indicator tracking lagged but eventually produced the needed data covering all years.

   No special implementation arrangements were created in the MOF to manage activities
   related to legal policy development. Instead, the MinTax organizational structures were
   used for this purpose, which coordinated with the MOF as needed.

   The Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF), a Russian foundation, was contracted as
   a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)--but only to execute the back-office project
   functions of procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities (see Table below
   for advantages and disadvantages of this arrangement in Russia). The FCPF reported to


                                                        21

the FTS Project Director and closely coordinated with the FTS Modernization
Department. The FCPF responsibilities included maintenance of the financial
management system, including preparation of periodic financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) and ensuring the annual audit of project accounts, annual reports, the mid-term
review and Borrower input to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

Actual project implementation entailed the execution of a large number of project
activities, about 140, in many functional areas of headquarters, regional offices, and local
tax inspectorates. Accordingly, special project implementation arrangements were created
at all three administrative levels of MinTax's structure--central, regional and Oblast.
Implementation was coordinated through the Project Coordination Unit. The
responsibility of implementing specific actions to modernize headquarters functional
activities was assigned to the relevant functional units. This was done to promote the
internalization and institutionalization of the modernization process. Thematic groups
corresponding to these functional areas were created at headquarters with the
participation of regional staff. The heads of the Thematic Groups belonged to the Project
Coordination Unit.

Similarly, each regional office created a special structure to manage the modernization
process headed a deputy regional director. A Regional Coordination Committee oversaw
the modernization activities in regional offices and tax inspectorates. It also included a
Project Management Unit for logistical and technical support to all modernization
activities in the region, averaging between 10 and 12 staff.

At the local level, each tax inspectorate created a special structure to manage the
modernization process. The head of the local inspectorate was placed in charge of local
modernization activities. The local project modernization management structure
consisted of six staff per local inspectorate. These arrangements worked in a satisfactory
manner throughout project implementation and developed the capacity to sustain
operational inputs and outcomes from the project through coordinating networks built
during project implementation - despite disruptions caused by organizational
restructuring in 2004 and subsequent challenges to the legality of the Loan Agreement
and to the project procurement arrangements by the Office of the Prosecutor General,
which were subsequently satisfactorily, as explained below.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement delays occurred in the early phase of the project, especially IT procurement
because of PIU difficulties in understanding and addressing Bank's procurement
concerns. Compliance with procurement schedules and quality of procurement
administration were rated unsatisfactory beginning in December 2004--although the
project itself was rated satisfactory at the time. Eventually, the PIU recovered the pace of
implementation and most of the delays were eliminated. Also, it was noted in June 2005
that monitoring and evaluation was "unsatisfactory," as the contract for taxpayer services
was significantly delayed and the Bank was not being provided with periodic updates on
Key Performance Indicators.



                                               22

The subsequent supervision mission (2/13/2007) was informed that the Office of the
Prosecutor General (OPG) of the Russian Federation inspected the project and questioned
the legal validity of the Loan Agreement as an international treaty, as it had not been
ratified by the Russian parliament (Duma). The OGP similarly called into question all
procurement using Bank Guidelines (instead of national procurement legislation) and the
legality of the Agency Agreement with the Federal Center for Public Finance (FCPF--
the PIU), as the latter was not a direct budget recipient under the Budget Code. The
Government asked the Ministries of Finance, Economic Development and Trade, Justice
and Foreign Affairs to provide official opinions about the OGP's opinion. The executive
agencies all confirmed World Bank Guidelines were legal and binding but the OPG
refused to change its opinion. Box 2 below highlights the observations of a Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) panel that conducted a learning evaluation of TAMP II in April
2008 (at the request of the Public Sector Governance Board, since the TAMP II had been
rated unsatisfactory due to the halt in implementation because of the OPG issue).

        Box 2. Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Observations on TAMP II (April 22, 2008)

 A QAG panel reviewed TAMP II on April 22, 2008 at the request of the World Bank's Public Sector
 Governance (PSG) Board, as part of a larger review of `problem projects' in the PSG lending portfolio
 across the Bank (the Bank team had rated TAMP II as `unsatisfactory' for Development Outcomes and
 Implementation Progress at this stage due to the ongoing and still-unresolved OGP issue).

 The panel found that the most important factor affecting project implementation, and by extension the
 PDOs, was the unanticipated halt in project implementation arising out of the unexpected 2006 ruling of
 the OPG questioning the legality of the Loan Agreement and the application of World Bank
 procurement processes to TAMP II procurement. The panel noted that in early 2007, the Bank wrote to
 the Ministry of Finance on this issue. Meetings were convened by Government authorities, and support
 was forthcoming from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the
 Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These meetings confirmed that the Loan
 Agreement was in conformity with Russian laws. Project implementation was resumed in late 2007 and
 disbursement arrears were cleared. However, with elections to the Duma in December 2007, followed
 by the forthcoming 2008 Presidential elections, and consequent heightening of uncertainties (including
 the issue of the Russian Federation continuing to borrow from the Bank), the FTS management, still
 under threat of possible prosecution because of the OPG's opinion on the legality of project
 procurement, opted not to seek an extension of the project to complete implementation of some delayed
 procurement packages.

 The QAG panel also commended the implementation of the project by the FTS through this turbulence,
 noting that prolonged audits by the Chamber of Accounts (Russia's supreme audit institution) and
 lengthy investigations by the OGP failed to disclose a single case of corruption, collusion or fraud in the
 implementation of this high-risk IT-focused project. The QAG panel also agreed with the suggestions
 from the Country Unit and the task team on next steps, which have been recorded in the relevant Aide
 Memoire, Implementation Status Report, and the QAG panel's final report.



Implementing agency
In July 2002, the Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF) was appointed as the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) for TAMPII to execute the back-office project functions of
procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities. The FCPF as designed reported
to the Project Working Group (PWG) and discharged its responsibilities in close



                                                    23

cooperation and coordination with the Modernization Department. The FCPF's
responsibilities included maintenance of the financial management system, including
preparation of periodic financial monitoring reports and ensuring the annual audit of
project accounts, annual reports, the mid-term review and the Borrower's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).

Because of the circumstances indicated above, the PIU at times was unable to adhere to
project schedules because of implementation delays in preparing adequate TORs and
technical specifications. Nevertheless, procurement continued to be carried out and
disbursements made on all agreed activities by the project closing date of June 30, 2008.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Budget Message of the President of the Russian Federation to the Federal Assembly
of the Russian Federation for 2009-2011 (June 2008) stated that "special focus shall be
given to raising the quality of tax administration, including removing of administrative
barriers which hinder due fulfillment of tax duties, and efficient use of tools to prevent
tax evasion." TAMP II therefore was - and remains  extremely relevant to current
country and Bank priorities. During implementation, when revenues and oil prices were
high, the project supported greater efficiency in revenue collection. Thereafter, as the
financial and economic crisis hit Russia and deepened, the importance of an effective tax
administration for revenue collection has become even more important for Russia as it
struggles to cope with the impact of the crisis and generate revenues to finance essential
public expenditures. From the Bank's perspective, TAMP II objectives remain highly
relevant, its participatory and comprehensive design remains a model for sequenced
public institutional reform in Russia, and the implementation experience (including the
setbacks) has provided numerous learning opportunities. Overall, at a time of unfolding
financial crisis and consequent downward pressure on state revenues, support for tax
administration modernization remains a high priority for both Bank and country
authorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Project development objectives were basically met by the close of the project. There
were peaks and valleys, however, during project implementation that at times threatened
PDO realization and the project itself. However the thematic groups created and the
networks established, along with the improvement in tax administration performance
during the project life, proved strong enough to sustain the achievement of the PDOs.
Specifically, the IT aspects of the project, especially the regional DPC rollout, were
successful and an agency priority from the beginning. In this regard, the second and third
PDOs, increasing administrative efficiency (through IT interventions) and strengthening
enforcement capacity, respectively, were MinTax and FTS priorities and essentially
realized. The fourth PDO, enhancing professional integrity and skills was basically
realized and thus yielded and a moderately satisfactory result. It should be noted that
many of these activities were carried out in parallel under the Federal Tax Program. The
final PDO, improving tax legislation and fairness in the implementation of tax laws was


                                              24

partially satisfactory. The taxpayer or stakeholder survey data show an improved public
and internal perception of fairness both in the pilot regions and at the central level,
suggesting institutional capacity building and strides to achieve more transparency and
integrity in the agency.

3.3 Efficiency

This has been discussed in Annex xx.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The relevance of and commitment to the TAMP II
project for the Russian Federation was attested to in the Gref report at project
identification, as well as by the very positive post-closing review of the project at the
level of the Government in early 2009. The high-level Gref report singled out tax
administration reform as a government priority. The project was designed to be
comprehensive to reflect the content of the Gref report and to meet the expectations of
the Borrower. The restructuring of the Government somewhat impeded realization of the
PDO at the time.

However, the successful resolution of the OPG issue, and the subsequent resumption
(indeed acceleration) of the pace of implementation demonstrated the continuing
importance of TAMP II to government priorities.

The rating of moderately satisfactory is based on the deep and successful implementation
of IT technical and infrastructure inputs, which do have a bearing on administrative
efficiency and which have had important positive consequences on client service, as
attested to by stakeholder surveys. End-project targets were largely met for various
components, having tangible economic and financial benefits. A key achievement was
the advanced roll out of the pilots based on early success. All of these contributed to the
overall rating of `moderately satisfactory'.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project did not specifically target poverty impacts or social development, but the
modernization of the FTS under TAMP II involved assistance to manage a revenue
collection environment that included the new responsibility of collecting social tax
contributions. The ultimate result was expected to be a much more efficient collection of
social contributions, which would benefit directly from improvements in the tax-paying
culture and compliance sought by the project. Indirectly, this was expected to lead to
improvements in social benefits available to the population; therefore, the project, by
promoting a stronger relationship between taxpayers and the tax administration, would
instill more confidence in government, lead to greater social inclusion, and increase
equity and transparency.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                              25

The project was expected to provide a more sustainable basis for revenue flows to the
Treasury and would directly contribute to macroeconomic stability. The project was
conceived as part of a public sector reform program for the Russian Federation aimed
at reducing the overall tax burden, fostering incentives for private sector development and
economic growth, and providing significantly improved taxpayer services throughout the
Russian Federation, while combating corruption.

A key project objective was to transform the administrative mindset and institutional
culture of the tax administration from a command-and-control approach to a modern
service-oriented culture able to master and fully enforce tax laws under a voluntary
compliance-based system of tax collection. The pilot experiments carried out during
the second half of TAMP I demonstrated the feasibility of achieving a reasonable
level of transformation and obtaining demonstrable results within the timeframe of
the proposed project, with strong management support and a sound project
management structure in place. A key goal under TAMP II was to introduce effective
compliance management by a two-pronged strategy: a much improved taxpayer service
culture and better enforcement.


Another key institutional development objective was to achieve equal treatment of
taxpayers throughout the territory by instituting measures to ensure consistent application
of tax laws and developing administrative procedures to enforce them. The project was
specifically oriented to support capacity-building, institution-building and integrity by
improving the human resource management and a rationalized training strategy and
related capacity-building activities, increasing the motivation and technical knowledge
of staff, and reducing motives and opportunities for corruption.

 In particular, organizationally TAMP II supported:

   Improvements in the organizational structure of the tax administration to increase
    the efficiency and integrity of revenue collection. The MinTax structure was
    successfully reorganized. The efficiency was measured empirically; however, the
    integrity dimension was not gauged by surveys. The FTS, MinTax's successor
    agency, adopted the same principles.

   Improvements in taxpayer advisory services to create the necessary conditions to
    introduce voluntary compliance-based declaration of tax liabilities. E-filing increased
    and some activities were undertaken to increase voluntary compliance; however, the
    extent to which taxpayers found these measures helpful through feedback mechanisms
    was not gauged, as intended by the project.

   Strengthened institutional accountability mechanisms, increased administrative
    integrity, and improved appeals and dispute resolution environment to promote an
    honest, fair, and equitable relationship between the tax administration and society.
    Taxpayer and internal surveys showed generally positive results in this area over the
    life of the project.




                                             26

   Improvements in tax policy and tax legislation to ensure predictability and
    consistency of tax laws and regulations and contribute to improvement of the
    business climate. Tax legislative changes were made in consonance with project
    objectives; business climate surveys taken by the FTS confirmed improved perception
    of tax administration efficiency among the business community.

   Strengthened institutional capacity to carry out the key functional tasks of taxpayer
    audit and arrears collection as part of a compliance management strategy. The
    MinTax and the FTS were functionally reorganized at central and local levels. The
    agency stressed audit and enforcement outcomes.

   Improved exchange of information and dialogue with other stakeholders in the public
    and private sector to reduce the opportunities for tax evasion and improve both
    feedback mechanisms and the ability to respond to taxpayer concerns. A stakeholder
    survey found that lines of communication with the FTS improved over the life of the
    project.

   Improved ability of MinTax headquarters, regional and local managers to ensure a
    more effective, results-oriented operation of the tax administration. This was
    successfully accomplished as shown in longitudinal KPI data over the project life
    provided by the FTS at project close.

   Introduction of more efficient tax payment processing, which will be supplemented
    by the country-wide automation of government financial transactions to be
    implemented under the Treasury Modernization project. This was successfully
    accomplished.

Long term capacity-building and institutional development--to be implemented in the
first stage of implementation--were negatively affected by project delays. These included
technical assistance for strengthening the HR function and professional training activities.
Most of these activities had to be dropped from the project as there was no time to
implement them, given the multi-year delay. They were however moved to, and continue
to be addressed, under the federally targeted program of tax reforms, bearing witness to a
commitment on the part of the government to the development objectives of the project
and their sustainability.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


The most salient positive unanticipated outcome was that most of the project
outcomes for all project components were implemented countrywide rather than
just in the project regions, under budget funds made available by the Government.
This represents not only recognition that project outcomes were perceived as highly
relevant by country authorities but also that the project design was appropriate and
relevant to the implementing agency.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops



                                              27

Key stakeholders comprised the Russian taxpaying public, the Ministry of Taxes and
Fees (subsequently the Federal Tax Service), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economic Development and Trade, and the Government of the Russian Federation.
Special attention was given to the international and local chambers of commerce, which
were key to private business development, and with whom stakeholder meetings were
held.

During project preparation, the project team consulted with the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, as well as the Financial Police, and
coordinated activities with the Bank-financed Treasury Project, then recently approved
by the Board. A cooperation agreement also was signed between MinTax and the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade to ensure
better coordination of intergovernmental issues and concerns.

During project preparation consultations also were carried out with regional and local
taxpayer associations, chambers of commerce, as well as tax accountants and private
consultants, to better understand the problems taxpayers face in their interactions with tax
authorities. These consultations provided the project team and MinTax (FTS) with a
better understanding of the issues and enabled a project design that better reflects these
concerns. For example, the lack of easily accessible and relevant taxpayer information
was identified as a major problem faced by taxpayers, which was being addressed by the
taxpayer services development component. Under this component MinTax (FTS) actively
sought to improve its interaction with taxpayers through the development of a public
communications strategy that would alert the public about changes in their rights and
obligations. It also promoted the implementation of taxpayer service centers to serve
taxpayers in their localities and develop and implement phone and website services.

To measure progress and to facilitate continuous improvements of the reforms,
consultations with different stakeholders were continuous throughout project
implementation. The project team discussed with MinTax--and subsequently the FTS--
how best to establish regular consultations with different taxpayer associations and other
professional organizations, such as tax consultants, tax accountants, and chambers of
commerce. MinTax and the FTS understood the importance of these issues and fully
committed to improving taxpayer services. However, changing the internal culture in the
Ministry and the FTS to a more service oriented culture that listens and consults with
taxpayers was understood and became an incremental process. Ultimately results were
achieved in this regard as attested to in client surveys carried out late in the project.

In addition to taxpayer consultations, the project surveyed taxpayers, managers and staff
of FTS, and other stakeholders to obtain their perceptions of the effectiveness of
improvements made in the functioning of the tax administration, continuing problems and
measures to improve program performance. The project promoted the development of
viable tax accountant and tax lawyer professions to help the private sector and businesses
to meet their tax obligations, which was considered a key to successful self-assessment of
business taxes.



                                              28

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
Project sustainability was understood to depend largely on the capacity of the Ministry of
Taxes and Fees to institutionalize the full agenda of reforms in a way that enabled the
ultimate expansion of all project results to all regions of the Russian Federation equally.
This depended in large measure on the incremental expansion of reforms building on the
results of the first two to three project years, when organizational, managerial, technical
and systems reforms would have taken place in the six to eight most revenue-productive
tax offices (except for the Moscow and St. Petersburg regions). Although the FTS
leadership has internalized the reform and modernization agenda, there remains a
potential risk to development outcomes: pressure on the FTS, during this time of crisis, to
boost revenue collection by any means possible, leading to the risk of perverse incentives
and undesirable behaviors by FTS collection staff, again threatening the positive but still-
fragile project results and impact.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank was proactive in meeting tax administration reform priorities mutually agreed
with the government, the Ministry of Taxes and Fees, stakeholders, and international
development partners. TAMP II essentially broadened the reform approach taken under
TAMP I into a comprehensive tax administration reform to address organization,
management, and operational weaknesses at the federal, regional, and local levels. The
institutional reforms of the project were understood as affecting the tax administration
countrywide, while the implementation of modernized systems, in 12 regions,
represented approximately 75 percent of total tax revenues collected. At the federal level,
DPCs are being created in all federal Okrugs (an okrug is an administrative unit which
encompasses several regions or oblasts).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

There were two supervision missions each project year, and three in 2007, the year before
project close. Between formal supervision missions the FTS and Bank teams remained in
contact through emails and videoconferences. A key aspect of the successful and
intensive coordination between the Bank, the FTS and the PIU was the presence of
experienced Bank staff in the Moscow office, who remained in almost daily contact with
interlocutors in the FTS and the PIU. In addition, Bank missions were staffed with
technical specialists until shortly after MinTax restructuring, after which fiduciary issues
took precedence and the team composition changed to reflect this priority shift. The
Bank team continuously identified problem issues as they arose, especially on slippage in
meeting PDOs and filing regular reports on key performance indicators. Procurement


                                                29

delays were also dealt with candidly and the PIU attempted to move activities forward
more rapidly.

Project implementation was for a time negatively influenced by the OGP finding that
procurement under the Loan was illegal, as it applied World Bank procurement
procedures and not national procurement legislation. This issue was completely outside
the anticipation or control of the Bank or the implementing agency. However, the pursuit
of project performance data could have been more forceful, although some of this delay
was attributable to the OGP issue which halted implementation for a prolonged period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

In the wake of compelling external factors (i.e. the issues and timing of the OGP
intervention) that impeded project implementation for a year at a crucial stage, the
performance of the Bank reflected both its concerns as well as a commitment to assist the
Borrower to meet the PDOs by project close. The Bank attempted to meet the challenges
imposed by this external development, and  as the QAG panel also recognized  the task
team supported by Country Unit and Sector Unit managements and the Legal VPU dealt
with this challenging issue (which arose during the run-up to the parliament and
thereafter the presidential elections in 2007-2008) with tact and sensitivity under difficult
circumstances. Following resolution of the OGP issue, the Bank team worked closely
with the FTS, the PIU and the MOF to bring the project to close more successfully than
had been anticipated.

The Borrower, in turn, and within an increasingly centrally controlled institutional
environment, sought to meet Bank requests to meet the requirements under the Loan.
Because of the stated importance of the loan by the Government during all stages of
implementation, and because of its considerable investment and achievements in most
PDOs, Bank performance was rated satisfactory in a volatile domestic political scenario,
a changing FTS leadership team, and a sometimes uncertain internal organizational
environment in the FTS, in maintaining an experienced task team which paid due
attention to substantive and fiduciary issues while reporting implementation challenges
candidly in Implementation Status Reports, and for continuous positive support from the
Country Unit for this strategically important project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the Government provided strong support for the project. Transforming the State
Tax Service into the Ministry of Taxes and Fees indicated an elevation of status and
autonomy that was needed to carry out the reforms as envisaged by the Government and
the Bank under the TAMP II project. However, the reversion into a Federal Tax Service
under the MOF, and the subsequent reassignment of all key MinTax executive staff
compromised for a while any momentum for results the project had achieved till that time
and caused a breach in Bank interaction with the agency at all levels. The subsequent



                                             30

finding by the OGP that all project procurement was illegal to the extent it did not
comply with national procurement legislation was puzzling. Procurement was allowed to
resume but this unanticipated shock led to the FTS management's decision to close the
project as scheduled instead of seeking approval through internal governmental
procedures for an extension to complete the activities that had been delayed.

There has been continuous and strong support and ownership from the MinTax and then
the FTS for the project objectives and activities. Importantly, strong technical support
through the Working Groups in the FTS ensured gradual introduction of changes in the
institutional culture and business processes, and maintained support for the project
through changes in organizational form, structure and leadership. This was a major
factor in the achievement of results: as indicated in the Results Framework Analysis
section, as many as 8 PDOS were clearly achieved, one was partially achieved, two were
not achieved and the two survey-based indicators clearly show where further
improvements are needed over time. This is a high achievement given the challenges
encountered by the FTS during implementation, the fact that the project dealt with an
extremely sensitive and strategically important entity of the federal government, all
within the prevailing broader uncertainty during this period about the nature of the
Russian Federation's evolving relationship with the World Bank. Hence the commitment
of the FTS and the MOF to complete all project activities continued throughout the
project and even beyond the closing date. This is noteworthy. In addition, the assessment
of the FTS on TAMP II implementation performance and impact was presented to the
Government in early 2009  the first World Bank-financed project for which this was
done in several years. This indicates the importance attached by the authorities to the
modernization of the tax administration function and the strategic relevance of the
project. The positive assessment of the FTS of the project results and impact was
endorsed by the Government and this endorsement has been shared with the Bank.

In view of the above, this rating would have been Satisfactory were it not for the
temporary dislocations caused by the reorganizations/restructurings (outside the control
of the FTS or the PIU) and the time taken by the authorities to coordinate between
different executive entities (the then Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the
Government) to resolve the issues arising from the unanticipated OGP intervention
(again, clearly outside the control of the FTS or the PIU).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agency was the Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF). It was
contracted as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to execute the back-office project
functions of procurement, accounting, and project reporting activities. The PIU reported
to the Project Director in MinTax (subsequently FTS) and coordinated with the
Modernization Department. The PIU's responsibilities were to maintain the financial
management system, including preparation of periodic financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) and ensure the annual audit of project accounts, annual reports, the mid-term
review and the Implementation Completion and Results Report.


                                             31

In this regard, the PIU provided routine FMRs on time and prepared annual progress
reports on procurement packages and disbursements satisfactorily. Processing of
technical assistance TORs was at times protracted and the relationship within the
thematic group was often adversarial. In should be said that FTS staff were not used to
decision making by discussion, interaction, and consensus. Use of top management
orders in a command-and-control style of management was common; hence, after
MinTax restructuring, the relationship between the PIU and the FTS was described in
supervision reports as "tense." The PIU was focused on moving procurement packages
ahead but in an institutional environment where communication lines were ambiguous
and accountabilities sometimes uncertain. Following the ruling by the Office of the
General Prosecutor about the legality of procurement, the possibility of carrying out
intended functions was further compromised. The PIU resumed exercising its functions
in an exemplary manner once the "legality" issue was no longer a concern.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Implementing Agency was split between two differently run institutions: MinTax
and the FTS. The first phase of the project found open communication and enthusiasm
for the project and its activities and proactive engagement from the Minister down
through the rank and file. When the restructuring took place, essentially a new
Implementing Agency profile emerged, one initially less inclined to open communication
and less focused on PDOs though fully recognizing the value of the project for the
institution. Over time, strong support from the FTS re-emerged, with continuous
ownership on the part of the thematic Working Groups within the FTS. Reasonable
working arrangements enabled continuity of project ownership and activities, and the
possibility of meeting all PDOs and sustaining outcomes became more likely, with the
strong and continuous support of the MOF and the FTS management even beyond project
close. The positive endorsement of the Government of the project results and impact
enhances the likelihood of sustainability of project outcomes.

However, the overall Borrower performance (as distinct from FTS performance) is rated
Moderately Satisfactory for two main reasons: (a) when the OGP issue emerged (i.e.
when the two main revenue collection entities of the state  the FTS and the Federal
Customs Service  were more or less simultaneously subjected to unanticipated and very
intensive investigative attention by the OGP for reasons still difficult to explain) it would
have been reasonable to perhaps expect the government ministries concerned (the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry
of Economic Development and Trade) to coordinate more rapidly and resolve the issue
sooner than happened in practice; and (b) when the issue was indeed finally resolved, it
was too late to complete the remaining activities (which were nevertheless small in
monetary terms) but a decision by the authorities to seek an extension of the project by
several months could have enabled completion of the remaining activities.

6. Lessons Learned




                                              32

Key lessons learnt comprise:
  1. The importance of ownership, change management and incremental reforms in
      public sector institutional modernization. High-level Government and FTS
      ownership of the project and tax administration reforms remained consistently
      high. Importantly, technical-level ownership and change management within the
      FTS was embedded through thematic Working Groups in MinTax and then the
      FTS. These Working Groups penetrated very deep into the operating levels of the
      tax administration and provided strong continuity even through wrenching
      organizational restructurings and changes in MinTax/FTS leadership. The
      Working Groups also functioned  contrary to conventional wisdom which
      sometimes doubts the efficacy of such change agents internal to an organization 
      as key channels to introduce and sustain incremental institutional change,
      modernized business processes and related automation. It appears that the high
      organizational pride and esprit de corps so manifest across the entire FTS
      contributed significantly to this achievement. The importance of the thematic
      Working Groups in keeping the banners of ownership, change management and
      incremental reforms flying through difficult times cannot be over-estimated.
  2. Participatory design is key to reinforcing and sustaining ownership and
      commitment. The positive experience and lessons from TAMP I enabled the
      participatory design of a comprehensive yet viable TAMP II.
  3. Embedding World Bank-financed public sector institutional reform projects
      within broader medium-term sector-wide modernization programs can improve
      project results and impact. The design of TAMP II contemporaneously with that
      of the Federal Targeted Program (FTP) for tax administration enabled some of the
      key TAMP II institutional reform aspects to be applied system-wide through FTP
      financing. The FTP provided a country-wide platform for modernization of
      business processes and incremental institutional reforms, and its high profile and
      financing ensured high-level attention from the authorities, from which the TAMP
      II benefited. And the early development and adoption of a strategic short-,
      medium-, and long-term vision through the preparation process for the FTP and
      TAMP II was key to the positive synergy between the FTP and TAMP II. This
      lesson is applicable also to other public sector institutional reform exercises (e.g.
      in Russia, this applied also to the still-ongoing treasury modernization, Customs
      modernization and the modernization of the judiciary).
  4. It remains very difficult to measure the full extent of achievements of institutional
      reform projects through quantitative indicators, especially for demand-side issues
      such as transparency and ease of user access to agency services. TAMP II
      achievements in terms of greater taxpayer access to information and overall
      transparency of FTS operations cannot be captured in quantitative terms alone, or
      only through KPIs. A good example of such as aspect of institutional change is
      the FTS web-portal, which has been greatly improved and consistently rated
      among the best web-sites of federal executive bodies in the Russian Federation.
      Besides, PDOs may not be able to capture the full extent of project
      accomplishments. The TAMP II PDOs, in the opinion of the Borrower, did not
      adequately capture the accomplishments of the agency. The Bank and clients




                                             33

        need to continue efforts to refine the measurement and evaluation of institutional
        reform programs.

In addition, two observations from the April 2008 review of TAMP II by the World Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) are relevant:
       TAMP II procurement and financial transactions were subjected to a detailed
    transaction-by-transaction review by two outside government agencies with a view to
    uncover any wrong-doing including waste, fraud and corruption. It is significant that
    they did not find a single instance of wrong doing. What went right? This project
    may offer lessons for use in Russia and elsewhere. One set of answers perhaps lies in
    the design of the project, which built commitment and capacity in the implementation
    structure. This structure penetrated deep into the operating levels of the tax
    administration. This enabled consistency in project vision and a partnership between
    the Borrower and Bank teams that maintained the integrity of the project's fiduciary
    transactions.
       The case for measuring results as projects are implemented is unassailable in
    theory but often difficult in practice. TAMP II implementation took place over
    several years during which the Bank team made judgments about the Borrower's
    capacity to implement the project as designed. The Bank team over time took the
    approach that the professionalism of the counterparts and the evidence of concrete
    achievements would eventually nullify any risks that PDOs would not be achieved
    and KPIs would not be forthcoming. In the end the design of the project and the
    inherent commitment of the counterparts to deliver the project provided the Bank
    team with the confidence to press forward. The ultimate delivery of KPI values and
    realization of PDOs suggests that the risk was understood and worth taking.

Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The FTS prepared a detailed ICR of more than 100 pages for TAMP II - outstanding in
its scope and attention to detail. It also contains the results of a 2008 survey of users of
FTS services which depicts different aspects of TAMP II implementation and impact.
This is the first time such a detailed ICR has been prepared for a World Bank-financed
project in the Russian Federation, and is a further indication of the professionalism with
this project has been designed and implemented by the Russian authorities. Also
unusually for a World Bank-financed project, the entire Borrower's ICR was submitted to
the Government for consideration, which fully agreed with the positive endorsement of
the project and its results. The full ICR has been translated and filed in the Bank's
institutional repository and can be accessed through IRIS.

The Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Finance both rated the
project's impact and results as positive in their 2009 post-closing TAMP II assessment to
the Office of the Government of the Russian Federation. For example, the Ministry of
Finance's assessment conveyed through its letter no. 01-02 01/03-317 of February 19,
2009 stated, inter alia, that "The most important results of Project implementation include
proposals for improvement of tax administration and tax legislation. For example,
proposals have been made to improve such taxes as the value added tax, the corporate


                                               34

profit tax, the personal income tax, the mineral extraction tax, the single social tax, excise
taxation, property taxation and special tax regimes. Analytical materials and draft
amendments to Russian tax legislation that have been prepared on the basis of review of
the Russian taxation experience and positive international experience contain materials
that were used in preparation of a number of draft laws and development of tax policies.
For example, such proposals were incorporated in Federal Law No. 137-FZ, dated July
27, 2006, On Making Changes in the First Part and the Second Part of the Tax Code of
the Russian Federation and in some legislative acts of the Russian Federation in
connection with the measures undertaken to improve tax administration. This occurred
as well as in a number of other federal laws adopted in 2006-2008, and Key Areas of Tax
Policy in the Russian Federation for 2008 and for the period up to 2010, and for 2009 and
the planned period of 2010 and 2011."

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
The Bank's comparative international experience was expected to assist the Russian
Federation and the FTS in particular, to benefit from the Bank's increasing institutional
knowledge in the development of successful tax administration projects, both in countries
with transitional economies as well as in countries in other regions of the world. The
momentum for reform engendered by TAMP I was expected to be sustained and to
provide further impetus to mount a much more comprehensive reform than otherwise
would have been possible without this experience. The coordination of the Bank with the
IMF and other donor agencies was expected to provide a solid foundation of support and
cooperation, thus adding significant value to the Bank's role in the ongoing process of tax
administration reform in the Russian Federation. A special Development Partners'
Conference was held in Moscow in April 2002 with development partners from the
French and Swedish governments, EU-TACIS, UNDP, OECD, and the US Treasury,
which provided the basis for on-going support, coordination, and cooperation in respect
of TAMP II.




                                             35

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)
1. ORGANIZATION AND
                                          2.97                3.60            121
MANAGEMENT
2. HUMAN RESOURCES AND
                                         10.63              11.95             112
TRAINING
3. INFRASTRUCTURE                        63.88             111.01             174
4. LEGAL, REGULATORY,
                                          2.73                3.45            126
AND APPEALS FRAMEWORK
5. UNIFIED STATE REGISTER
                                          0.86                1.12            130
OF TAXPAYERS
6. DEVELOPMENT OF E-
FILING AND TAX PAYMENT                    4.99                6.69            134
AND ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS
7. AUDIT AND
                                          5.75                7.91            138
INVESTIGATION
8. ARREARS MANAGEMENT                     0.89                1.13            127
9. TAXPAYER SERVICES
                                          1.42                1.75            123
DEVELOPMENT
10. LARGE TAXPAYER UNITS                  0.14                0.66            471
11. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                    3.40                4.05            119
Unallocated                               2.35                                 -


            Total Baseline Cost         100.00             153.32

Physical Contingencies
                                          0.00                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies
                                          0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs          0.00             153.32
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required             0.00             153.32



(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          58.00        73.72        127.00
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                  99.62        89.65        90.00
and Development



                                            36

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Organization and Management
The component was implemented well and achieved or exceeded its output indicators.
The processes of re-organization of tax authorities and consolidation of small tax
inspectorates into inter-rayon tax inspectorates were completed. Functional
organizational structure of tax authorities has been implemented throughout the country.
The activities on streamlining administrative regulations (as a part of administrative
reform) further contributed to improving effectiveness and transparency of the business
processes. The project assisted this effort by re-engineering business processes at all
levels of tax administration. Activities related to designing uniform principles of
processing, registration, and storage of documents in tax authorities (package #73) and
implementation of electronic document turnover were completed and further improved
the efficiency of administrative procedures in the tax bodies.

A methodology for tax base and revenue forecasting was developed and it was
subsequently applied during the preparation of the federal budget for 2006 and 2007.
Overall, the quality of forecasting based on the new methodology improved (for example,
the range of error for excise taxes was about 5 percent). Software based on this
methodology was prepared and included a training component for both the FTS HQ and
the largest regional tax directorates. It was demonstrated and shared with the Ministry of
Finance of the Russian Federation and Ministries of Finance of the Subjects of the
Russian Federation so that these bodies could use the advanced methodology for revenue
forecasting for budget planning.

Component 2: Human Resource Management and Training
Output indicators have generally been met in parallel with the Federal Targeted Program
of tax reforms. This included developing programs for professional training, retraining,
and upgrading of tax administration staff skills and developing a concept for human
resources policy, including revising 59 existing training programs and developing 7 new
training programs, reviewing HR technologies and analyzing staff turnover issues. Major
training packages were delivered before the project closing date. A Code of Ethics and
Conduct was completed and promulgated.

Component 3: Infrastructure
The component achieved its planned outputs. Investment in infrastructure resulted in
significant gains: more effective taxpayer services, faster processing of taxpayer
documents, reduction in staffing needs, decentralized data storage, improved workflows
due to greater use of e-documents, video-communication capability (which also
facilitates document distribution), automated data, and document and software exchange.
An innovative approach to the architecture for infrastructure resulted from the
elimination of 82 regional-level databases (only federal and local databases) with no loss
of functionality, reduction of disk space requirements, decreased technical support
requirements and increased system reliability. According to the FTS, the project allowed



                                              37

the FTS to pilot innovative technologies and architecture designs in support of the rapid
FTS modernization needs.

Federal Data Processing Center (DPC) equipment was acquired, installed and has been
operational since 2005. The quality of staff and equipment at the DPC are quite
impressive and demonstrate the FTS drive towards personnel and technical excellence.
In addition, a monitoring and control system was developed as well as a system for
reserving data at the level of regional tax directorates. Introduction of these systems have
enhanced the overall security of IT in tax administration and improved disaster
management for IT systems. Telephone equipment initially bought for the Moscow
regional DPC was reallocated to the regional directorates throughout the country.

Component 4: Legal, Regulatory and Appeals Framework
This component achieved all its planned outputs. The consultancy provided on tax policy
to the Ministry of Finance supports about over 75% of tax policy development areas that
the Ministry works on. Project inputs were used for developing a number of draft legal
acts, including amendments to the Tax Code aimed at improving VAT system, prevent
transfer pricing application for tax evasion, improving the policy on personal income tax,
tax administration (including restriction of tax audits and removing associated
administrative barriers). A legal database of court decisions was implemented through
federal budget financing and is available countrywide. In addition, the FTS has
introduced an internal administrative appeals resolution system throughout the country (at
the level of local inspectorates as well as regional tax directorates and the HQ). As a part
of this component, advertising campaigns promoting administrative pre-court appeals
system and legalization of wages were conducted.

Component 5: Unified State Taxpayer Register
This component was successfully implemented. Under the direct contract with GNIVTS
(G1), software for linking unified taxpayer register with unified register of legal persons
and unified register of individual entrepreneurs was developed and tested in the Federal
DPC, Nizhny Novgorod oblast, and Chuvashya Republic. Testing results demonstrated
that the software helped eliminate about 90 percent of duplicative information in the
registers and increased operational efficiency of the tax administration. The software was
rolled out country-wide.

Component 6: Development of Electronic Filing and Tax Payment Accounting
System. Payment documents sent to taxpayers contain special codes to facilitate bank
operations with software for such interaction developed. A pilot on reconciling assessed
taxes against taxpayers' calculations was completed. The billing technology suggested by
consultants was adopted by the FTS. On the local government side, collection reporting is
now more effective for their budget planning and revenue forecasting needs. Changes to
the budget legislation necessitated distribution of collected revenues between newly
created municipalities. Instead of directly sending these revenues to specific
municipalities, the FTS now sends these to the respective regions for distribution and
onward transmission to the relevant municipalities.




                                              38

Changes were introduced into the Tax Code as of January 1, 2007, whereby taxpayers
employing more than 250 persons file tax declarations electronically. This practice was
extended to taxpayers employing more than 100 persons effective January 1, 2008.
However, small and medium enterprises employing less than 100 persons will continue to
provide paper-based data. The FTS developed ways for electronic interaction with
taxpayers, e.g. using cell phone technology. Public information campaigns for increasing
e-filing were conducted as well.

Component 7: Audit and Investigation
The component met all output targets. The desk audit system was improved and
methodologies, algorithms and criteria designed aimed at detecting tax evasion schemes,
including developing technical requirements for field office software for tax auditors.
Criteria used for selection of taxpayers for field audits were developed by GNIVTs and
used for implementing the automated field audit selection system through the contract
with GNIVTs. Finally, a concept for external interaction with third parties to create an
automated data bank for FTS was prepared and subsequently implemented by the tax
administration.

Component 8: Arrears Management
Methodological instruments for reviewing the results of activity aimed at enforcement of
arrears recovery and allowing for evaluating the background evidence of tax concealment
schemes, with indicators of concealment of property developed. Software for arrears
management system was also developed. The software was piloted in Stavropol krai and
rolled out to other Russian regions. The FTS also developed amendments to the legal
base on agricultural lands turnover and communal services, to address obstacles to arrears
management.

Component 9: Developing Taxpayer Services
The component achieved its output targets by the end of project implementation. The
strategy for interaction with taxpayers was used as a guiding line for other taxpayer
services related activities. Based on proposals for telephone consultation lines, a pilot call
center was designed for the DPC. The FTS web-portal was been improved and is rated
among the best web-sites of the federal executive bodies. Simplified instructions for PIT,
imputed income tax, and simplified taxation system were drafted and implemented. The
number of information fields in tax declarations has been reduced and questions and
answers on transport, property tax (for physical persons), and unified social tax
developed. In the framework of administrative reform, the FTS introduced taxpayer
services standards. Sixty tax inspectorates are equipped with special operational rooms
(for visitors), and significant work is undertaken to further improve taxpayer services.

Component 10: Large Taxpayer Units
Planned outputs were completed. The introduction of LTUs resulted in increased
revenues from the largest taxpayers and improved fiscal discipline. Methodologies for
effective management of the largest taxpayers are being applied based on international
experience and practice in LTU management. A standard program for the largest
taxpayers audit was also developed.



                                              39

Component 11: Project Management
Overall, project management was moderately unsatisfactory. The use of an automated
project implementation monitoring system to track progress and to react quickly to delays
was underscored and utilized. KPIs were supplied that covered all project years.




                                         40

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary of Benefits and Costs
Benefits
Benefits of the project were expected to accrue to both the public (Government) and
private sectors. For the purpose of cost-benefit analysis the following benefits were
quantified: (a) additional revenues for the consolidated budget from recovery of tax
arrears; (b) additional revenues for the consolidated budget from widening the tax base at
the expense of the 'shadow'sector; (c) savings for the consolidated budget from earlier
receipt of tax arrears as a result of transferring funds from delinquent taxpayers'accounts;
and (d) savings for the private sector due to less time needed to file tax returns in tax
administration offices.

In addition, the project envisaged a number of benefits that were not been quantified.
Benefits for the government include, among others, extra tax collections from better
selection and quality of field audits, widening the base as a result of the application of
modern analytical tools to identify unreported and underreported business activity;
smaller losses for the budget from court disputes lost to taxpayers; higher citizen
confidence in the tax administration and the Government; and reduced corruption inside
the tax administration. Prudent tax inspectors will benefit from better salaries, a
performance-oriented bonus system, better career and training opportunities, and
increased prestige. Private sector nonquantified benefits include, among others, time
savings from electronic filing of tax declarations, more transparent, uniform, and clear
tax procedures, less disruption by the tax administration of businesses of compliant
taxpayers, and better opportunities for them to compete with the 'shadow'economy and to
increase their market share and profits.

Costs
Project costs for the Government consist of tax co-financing of an IBRD loan, direct
budget financing of selected project activities, payment of interest and repayment of
principal of the loan and financing recurrent costs.

Main Assumptions:
Basic assumptions are that activities undertaken during TAMP I in Volgograd Oblast will
be replicated in 12 more regions  Krasnodarsky krai, Stavropolsky krai, Rostov oblast,
Perm oblast, Sverdlov oblast, Bashkortostan, Samara oblast, Khanty-Mansiysky okrug,
Yamalo-Nenets okrug, Novosibirsk oblast, Kemerovo oblast and Khabarovsky krai  and
generate identical results in terms of changes in key performance indicators. (In March
2002, in a final assessment of regional coverage under TAMP II, the Ministry of Taxes
and Fees decided to substitute Moscow Oblast, the city of St. Petersburg, and Omsk
Oblast for Sverdlov and Novosibirsk Oblasts and Khabarovsky krai based on selection
criteria. While the change in regions has an effect on the analysis, the basic premises and
conclusions, mutatis mutandis, remain valid.)

For simplicity, real GDP and real exchange rates have been considered constant
throughout the project life-cycle. The average salary of an accountant visiting the tax



                                                41

inspectorate was taken as 80 percent of the level found in the January 2001 regional
salary survey for that profession. Recurrent costs are assumed at 80 percent of
expenditures to be made during the project from all sources with a five-year time lag. A
10 percent discount rate was used in Present Value calculations.

The methodology for cost-benefit analysis extrapolates financial and economic benefits,
adjusted for region-specific parameters, achieved under TAMP I for another 12 regions
involved in TAMP II. The annual financial benefit was evaluated as an increase in
collected tax revenues as a percent of regional domestic product in project regions
relative to the Russian average. In the course of TAMP I, Volgograd Oblast achieved
fiscal improvements not only compared to the Russian average but also in comparison
with neighboring regions that have similar economic structures. This attests to the
robustness of the pilot results. This is done to avoid non-project-related improvements
that may occur countrywide. The following formula was used to calculate annual
financial benefits after project completion:

F = (ATv - ATrus) * E Yi, where
ATv  change in tax collection rate in percent of gross regional product in Volgograd
Oblast between 1997 and 2000
ATrus  change in tax collection rate in percent of a sum of gross regional products of 88
regions between 1997 and 2000
Yi  gross regional product in i-the region of TAMP II

The benefit captures both broadening the tax base following inclusion of a part of
unreported business activities (about 55 percent) and improvements in recovery of past
tax arrears (about 45 percent). It is assumed that it will take six years until this benefit
will be fully realized. Flows of annual financial benefits were discounted to calculate
their present value.

It is expected that tax administration staff released as a result of changes in business
processes, the switch to a functional organization, consolidation of local tax
inspectorates, introduction of the self-assessment principle, creation of DPCs, etc., will be
largely retrained and accommodated in new positions within the FTS. Thus, it is assumed
that there will be no significant administrative cost savings generated.

Annual economic benefits include financial benefits and benefits attributable to the
private sector from savings on the time accounting staff of legal entities spend while
filing tax returns in local tax offices. Time savings are transformed into cash savings by
multiplying them by the average hourly salary of accountants using the following
formula: Ecc = E NI * N2 * 12 * Ts * N3i * Kcom * Wh, where

NI  average amount of visits a corporate accountant makes to tax inspectorates per
month;




                                              42

N2  average number of corporate accountants visiting tax inspectorates per month; Ts 
reduction of average time spent by a corporate accountant undergoing tax inspections;
N3i  number of registered corporate taxpayers in in-the region;

Kcom  share of registered corporate taxpayers filing tax returns;

Wh  average hourly salary of a corporate tax accountant.

Most likely legal entities would use these benefits to increase the efficiency of their
accounting staff (in the form of a larger contribution to corporate budget planning and
execution), which eventually will be transformed into higher overall corporate efficiency,
as measured by sales, profits, market share, and competitiveness. Other types of
economic benefits stem from reduction of the time needed for tax inspectors to prepare
and send a payment order to a bank serving a delinquent taxpayer's account as a method
of recovering tax arrears. The benefit comes from earlier recovery of tax arrears,
measured as savings on the interest rate applicable for CBR deposits of this maturity.
Similarly .to financial benefits, annual economic benefits to be achieved during the
project cycle are discounted to calculate their present value.

The table below presents project cash flows for the seventeen years during which the
Loan will be disbursed and repaid. These cash flows were used to calculate Present
Values.

Table 1. Cash Flows Summary. US$ million
Project Year              1        2        3         4         5         6
Fiscal revenues           0.0                                             2185.9
Economic benefits         0.0      262.2    524.5     1311.2    1835.6    2360.1
Total government expenses 7.0      10.6     11.7      12.8      16.9      27.1
o/w: project financing    7.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      13.0      13.6
interest on loan          0.0      0.6      1.7       2.8       3.9       5.5
loan repayment            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       8.0
IBRD expenses             10.0     20.0     20.0      20.0      30.0      0.0
IBRD exposure             10.0     30.0     50.0      70.0      100.0     92.0
Project financing (incl.  17.0     30.0     30.0      30.0      43.0      13.6
recurrent cost)
Present value of fiscal   0.0      220.8    401.5     912.4     1161.2    1357.3
revenues
Present value of economic 0.0      238.4    433.4     985.1     1379.1    1465.4
benefits
Present value of total    7.0                         9.6       11.5      16.8
government expenses
Present value of project  17.0     27.3     24.8      22.5      29.4      8.4
financing


Project Year              7        8        9        10        11         12
Fiscal revenues           2428.8   2428.8   2428.8   2428.8    2428.      2428.8
Economic benefits         2622.3                               2622.3     .
Total government expenses 37.1     36.6     36.2               24.9       34.9
o/w: project financing    24.0     24.0     24.0     34.4      13.6       24.0
interest on loan                   4.6      4.2      3.7       3.3        2.9
loan repayment            8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0        8.0
IBRD expenses             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0



                                             43

IBRD exposure             84.0     76.0       68.0     60.0    52.0      44.0
Project financing (incl.  24.0     24.0       24.0     34.4    13.6      24.0
recurrent cost)
Present value of fiscal   1371.0   1246.4     1133.1   1030.0  936.4     851.3
revenues
Present value of economic 1480.2   1345.7     1223.3           1011.0    919.1
benefits
Present value of total    20.9     18.8       16.9     19.6    9.6       12.2
government expenses
Present value of project  13.5     12.3       11.2     14.6    5.2       8.4
financing


Project Year              13       14        15        16     17
Fiscal revenues           2428.8   2428.8    2428.8    2428.8 2428.8
Economic benefits         2622.3   2622.3    2622.3    2622.3 2622.3
Total government expenses 34.4     35.0      44.9      23.6   33.5
o/w: project financing    24.0     24.0      34.4      13.6   24.0
interest on loan          2.4      2.0       1.5       1.0    0.5
loan repayment            8.0      9.0       9.0       9.0    9.0
IBRD expenses             0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0
IBRD exposure             36.0     27.0      18.0      9.0    0.0
Project financing (incl.  24.0     24.0      34.4      13.6   24.0
recurrent cost)
Present value of fiscal   773.9    703.5     639.6     581.4  528.6
revenues
Present value of economic 835.6    759.6     690.5     627.8  570.7
benefits
Present value of total    11.0     10.1      11.8      5.6    7.3
government expenses
Present value of project  7.6      7.0       9.1       3.3    5.2
financing

1. Economic:
Cost benefit      NPV=US$14869.2 million
The project rationale was based on the gains the enlarged government and law-abiding
private sector would obtain as a result of development of capacities of MinTax and
application of modern tax administration techniques, which were expected to
significantly reduce the taxpayer compliance burden.

The most significant economic benefits of the project would be reaped from widening the
tax base, improving voluntary tax compliance rates, reducing taxpayer compliance costs,
and leveling the playing field for all taxpayers.

The quantifiable benefits include: (a) additional revenues generated by improvements in
tax compliance rates; (b) tax revenues from reduction of the shadow (gray) economy; (c)
interest rate savings from early payment of tax arrears; and (d) private savings from
reducing time spent by accounting staff of private companies to comply with tax
legislation.

Other positive outcomes of the project may not be possible to quantify. Among them are:
(i) increase of legal business activity resulting from improvements in the business and
investment climate stemming from lower risks due to inconsistent interpretation of tax
regulations and procedures by tax inspectors and to putting 'shadow'competitors out of



                                               44


                                                  -22-

business; (ii) improvement in the reputation of the tax administration and reduction of
corruption; (iii) economic growth and growth of competitiveness, which will take place
after possible reduction of statutory tax rates, generating higher overall tax revenues; (iv)
FTS efficiency increase from re-engineering business processes, better organization of
internal and external information flows, and (v) improved professionalism and
performance incentive structure.

On the negative side, implementation of the project required intra and interregional
reallocation of MinTax/FTS staff, its retraining and partial dismissal, especially in rural
and less advanced regions. These factors have not been quantified but are not believed to
be significant.

The following table summarizes the expected annual economic benefits of the project for
the Borrower and the private sector.

Annual economic benefits under TAMP II
                                             Benefits,
                                             $ million
  Total benefits                             2622.3
  Including:
  Tax revenues (government)                  2428.8
  Interest rate savings (government)         0.5
  Savings on compliance costs (taxpayers) 193.0

If the above is correct, the annual economic benefits exceed project costs, attesting to a
very high public and private return on investment. The table below presents results of the
cost-benefit analysis, which supported this conclusion.

Costs, benefits and NPV of TAMP H
                                S million
  Costs, present value (PV)     208.0
  Public benefits, PV           13851.3
  Private benefits, PV          1225.8
  NPV                           14869.2
  ERR                           66.5

2. Financial NPV=US$ 13640.3 million;

Based on available data, the project's financial impact was evaluated for the consolidated
budget only. Improvements in tax collection rates and broadening tax base in the
Volgograd region under the TAMP I project were used as a benchmark for the TAMP II
financial impact assessment. The Table below presents key results of the financial
analysis, highlighting high fiscal returns of the proposed TAMP II project--even if it did
not go beyond the accomplishments of TAMP I.

Financial benefits and NPV of TAMP II
                              $ million



                                              45


                                                 -23-

   Fiscal benefits (annual)     2428.8
   Fiscal benefits, PV          13848.3
   NPV                          13640.3
   FRR                          61.0

It is likely that factors not represented--i.e., positive GDP growth, real appreciation of
national currency--could contribute to higher fiscal benefits of TAMP II. Taking into
account the government commitment to prevent public expenditures from increasing
relative to GDP, fiscal savings expected under the project are expected to have been
shared with the law-abiding private sector through reduction of statutory tax rates. This
would also increase project financial benefits of the project while further increasing the
economic benefits.




                                                46

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                             Responsibility/
Names                  Title                           Unit
                                                             Specialty
Lending
Alexander Balakov      Procurement Spec.               ECSPS Procurement
                                                             Project
                                                             Administrative
Natalia Balashova      Program Assistant               ECCU1
                                                             Assistant
                                                             (Moscow)
                                                             Project
Yelena Dobrolyubova    Consultant                      ECSPE Coordination
                                                             (Moscow)
                                                             Tax
Michael Engelschalk    Sr Public Sector Spec.          PRMPS Administration
                                                             Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov    Loan Officer                    LOA   Disbursement
Nikolai Soubbotin      Senior Counsel                  LEGEC Country Lawyer
Carlos D. C. Ferreira  Manager                         ECSPE Task Manager
                                                             Organization and
William V. Mayville    Consultant                      ECSPE
                                                             Management
Alexander Morozov      Senior Economist                ECSPE Project Economist


Supervision/ICR
Alexander Balakov      Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement
Nikolai Soubbotin      Senior Counsel                  LEGEC Country Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov    Senior Loan Officer             LOA   Disbursement
                                                             Administrative
Natalia Balashova      Program Assistant               ECCU1 Assistant
                                                             (Moscow)
Anita Correa           Program Assistant               ECSPE
                                                             Project
Yelena Dobrolyubova    Public Sector Specialist        ECSPE Coordination
                                                             (Moscow)
                                                             Tax
Michael Engelschalk    Senior Public Sector Specialist PRMPS Administration
                                                             Specialist
                                                             Tax
Carlos D. C. Ferreira  Consultant                      ECSHD Administration,
                                                             IT
Yoko Kagawa            E T Consultant                  ECSPE M&E
                                                             Administrative
Elena Lukyanchikova    Program Assistant               ECCU1
                                                             Support



                                      47

                                                                 Financial
Aziz Mamatov             E T Consultant                 ECSPS
                                                                 Management
                                                                 Organization and
William V. Mayville      Consultant                     ECSPE
                                                                 Management
Alexander Morozov        Senior Economist               ECSPE Project Economist
                                                                 Project
Ljudmilla V. Poznanskaya Senior Projects Officer        ECSPF Coordination
                                                                 (Moscow)
                                                                 Procurement
Jesus Renzoli            Senior Procurement Specialist  ECSPS
                                                                 Specialist
                                                                 Task Team
Amitabha Mukherjee       Lead Public Sector Specialist  ECSPE Leader; HR and
                                                                 Governance

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                              No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY00                                                    39.89
FY01                                                    173.64
FY02                                                    277.96
FY03                                                    121.40
FY04                                                    3.01
FY05                                                    -0.46
FY06                                                    0.00
FY07                                                    0.04
FY08                                                    0.22


Total:                                                  615.70
Supervision/ICR
FY00                                                    0.00
FY01                                                    0.00
FY02                                                    0.00
FY03                                                    39.70
FY04                                                    180.85
FY05                                                    132.40
FY06                                                    74.23
FY07                                                    81.77
FY08                                                    60.12


Total:                                                  569.07




                                        48

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Share of Taxpayers who Assess the Quality of Services Rendered by Tax Bodies as
        Satisfactory

74.5% of small and medium-sized business and sole proprietors and 68% of individuals
have applied to tax bodies during the last 3 years.

A large share of respondent taxpayers applying to tax bodies and a wide range of services
they have been looking for evidence an intensive interaction between the tax bodies and
taxpayers. The surveys of individuals show the prevailing positive attitude towards the
tax inspectorates' activities.

In the pilot regions, taxpaying individuals who think that the tax bodies are able to
efficiently render services almost 2.5 times exceed taxpayers who think that the tax
bodies are unable to render efficient service to taxpayers. The same proportion among
legal entities is not that big, however, it is also significant  positive attitudes are time
and a half greater than negative ones.

Moscow Region shows the largest number of taxpaying individuals who believe that the
tax bodies can render efficient services (71.7%), and Bashkortostan shows the largest
number of legal entities and private proprietors which think the same way (68.9%). The
largest number of legal entities which believe that the tax bodies are not able to render
efficient services is in Saint-Petersburg (50.0%) and Perm Region (43.1%)  legal entities
and private proprietors.

Project performance may be assessed in comparison with the non-pilot regions. This
comparison is fully in favor of the pilot regions. In the non-pilot regions, the number of
individuals who think that the tax bodies are unable to render quality services is 11.7%
less than in the pilot regions, and the number of taxpayers dissatisfied with the quality of
services exceeds that of the pilot regions by 6.6%. The number of legal entities
dissatisfied with the services in the non-pilot regions exceeds the same number in the
pilot regions by 2.5%. The only strange thing in this comparison is that the number of
taxpaying legal entities which think that the tax bodies are able to render efficient
services is larger in the non-pilot regions than in the pilot ones, although only by 2.6%.
Therefore, the effect from the Project's measures may be considered positive
(Development and implementation of web-portals, web-pages for Russian FTS and its
territorial departments in order to place materials related to current issues of tax
legislation", "Development/perfection of tax bodies' work with population" and
"Development of explanatory materials related to tax legislation helping taxpayers").

An additional effect from the Project may be expected after June 2008 upon completion
of measures to enhance taxpayer service standards to taxpayers, including mandatory and




                                             49

possible procedures of services, forms and methods of services with regard to
international experience in performing similar work.

The development of standards for rendering services to taxpayers is especially important
when the majority of taxpayers, both individuals and legal entities, have given a
"satisfactory" estimate of such tax services criteria as timeframes for rendering services,
quality of services (accuracy and correctness), schedule convenience, duration and
convenience of waiting for reception, services cost, and officers' politeness.

The main quality problems of services rendered to taxpayers in the pilot regions include:

                Long queues. In the pilot regions the share of individuals annoyed with
                long queues is 58.5% and legal entities and private proprietors  57.2%;
                Complicated completing of official forms. This challenge is faced by
                46.9% of individuals and 44.3% of legal entities and private proprietors.
                The need to visit may offices/institutions. This problem is stated by 43.4%
                of individuals and 49.7% of legal entities.

The non-pilot regions face the same challenges. The share of respondents dissatisfied
with services is even larger in the regions not involved in the Project. The share of legal
entities and private proprietors annoyed with long queues is 72.2%, which is by 26.2%
larger than in the pilot regions.

This estimate of the quality of services is not least of all related to the fact that there are
always taxpayers who would be dissatisfied with the work of tax bodies, because tax
bodies take money for the benefit of the state even as ideal service providers. In this
context, the share of taxpayers dissatisfied with the service quality includes not only
actually dissatisfied persons, but also those who are dissatisfied with the fact that they
have to pay taxes.

Hence, regardless of the overall positive attitude towards the work of tax bodies, the
survey shows significant reserves for improvement the efficiency of tax administration.

Table 22. Share of taxpayers broken down by their estimate of the tax bodies' ability to
efficiently provide services

                                         Share of taxpayers assessing whether the tax bodies
                                                    can efficiently render services, %
   No                 Region               Mainly yes             Mainly no            No answer
                                                    LE &                 LE &                 LE &
                                         IND*                   IND                  IND
                                                    SP**                   SP                  SP
    1      Moscow Region                  71.7      41.5        5.6       32.5       22.7      26.0
    2      Saint-Petersburg               32.8      45.3        50.0      29.9       17.3      24.8
    3      Stavropol Region               53.1      51.7        20.0      33.9       26.9      14.4
    4      Rostov Region                  59.2      53.4        21.8      38.2       18.9      8.4
    5      Republic of                    53.2      68.9        28.2      11.3       18.6      19.8



                                            50

           Bashkortostan
    6      Perm Region                      41.6     32.1       36.7     43.1      21.6     24.8
    7      Samara Region                    43.0     45.5       28.3     26.9      28.7     27.6
    8      Sverdlovsk Region                63.6     56.5       23.8     33.0      12.6     10.5
           Khanty-Mansijsk
    9      Autonomous District -            61.5     53.3       20.9     21.7      17.6     25.0
           Yugra
   10      Kemerovo Region                  39.6     47.2       29.0     40.3      31.3     12.5
   11      Omsk Region                      64.1     53.1       9.6      28.1      26.3     18.8
   12      Yaroslavl Region                 40.1     63.6       35.2     18.2      24.7     18.2
   13      Novosibirsk Region               46.8     44.7       24.4     39.1      28.9     16.2
           Average value by pilot
                                            55.3     48.6       22.9     31.3      21.8     20.1
           regions
           Average value by regions
           that did not participate in      43.6     49.4       29.5     33.8      26.9     16.8
           the Project

Note - * Hereinafter, taxpaying individuals;
       ** - Legal entities and sole proprietors

Share of Taxpayers Who Positively Assess: the Effect of Tax Policy on Business
       Environment; Predictability of Tax Policy; Unity and Consistency of
       Applying the Tax Law; Fairness and Justice of Appealing Decisions and the
       Ability of Tax bodies to React to Taxpayers' Complaints

Most taxpayers (over 66% of individuals and 87% of business entities) are proactively
looking for information on the tax system existing in Russia. This a very favorable
circumstance to set up a proactive dialogue between different layers of society and
government authorities, and establish efficient direct and feedback contacts of the tax
bodies with citizens and legal entities; both factors are indispensable for effective and
consistent tax policy.

Most individuals in the pilot regions (40.3%) positively assess the effect of the tax policy
on the business environment. Most positive opinions come from Moscow Region
(61.4%). The balance of respondents satisfied and dissatisfied with the tax policy is
almost equal among legal entities  38.0% vs. 38.6% respectively. An additional effect
may be expected from the first half year of 2008, as package No. 8/TAMP/IIA,IIB/QCBS
with regard to "Improving the tax policy in the medium-term and long-term prospect"
was completed in 2008.

The analysis of high indicators of those dissatisfied with the effect of tax policy on the
country's business climate (in particular, among legal entities and sole proprietors)
should take into account such subjective factor that most respondents perceive the tax
policy not only as the system of government efforts in tax collection and taxation, but
also on the so-called "household level", i.e. when the tax bodies fail to provide timely and
quality services, taxpayers interpret it as a negative tax policy.



                                              51

The comparison with non-pilot regions shows that the share of taxpayers who negatively
assess the effect of tax policy on business environment is even larger there  by 6%
among legal entities and by 10.2% among individuals. Hence, the situation in question
relates to non-pilot regions as well. And the fact that the indicators in the pilot regions are
lower than those in non-pilot regions evidences Project's efficiency.

The relative share of taxpayers dissatisfied with the effect of tax policy on the country's
business environment is expected to remain rather high. Legal entities and private
proprietors may tend to think that taxes should be decreased for boosting business
activity. This is a natural standpoint of business. It is however quite evident that a tax
policy is impossible to support with only tax cuts. Hence, there has always been a large
share of those who think the tax policy to be inefficient in terms of its effect on business
environment, even if the economic growth is maintained at 7-8% as during the last years
in Russia.

Table 23. Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment of tax policy effect on the
country's business environment

                                        Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment
                                             of tax policy effect on the country's business
                                                              environment, %
   No                Region
                                         Fairly positive      Rather negative         No answer
                                                    LE &                 LE &                 LE &
                                          IND                  IND                   IND
                                                     SP                    SP                  SP
    1      Moscow Region                  61.4       40.5       14.5      43.7       24.1      15.8
    2      Saint-Petersburg               37.5       44.5       34.8      40.7       27.7      14.8
    3      Stavropol Region               30.8       39.8       26.9      33.9       42.3      26.3
    4      Rostov Region                  34.5       25.8       28.2      55.1       37.3      19.1
           Republic of
    5                                     43.0       46.2       26.8      20.8       30.2      33.0
           Bashkortostan
    6      Perm Region                    25.3       20.2       37.1      47.7       37.6      32.1
    7      Samara Region                  29.4       37.3       38.5      26.1       32.1      36.6
    8      Sverdlovsk Region              40.5       45.0       24.9      27.3       34.6      27.7
           Khanty-Mansijsk
    9      Autonomous District -          44.0       40.0       31.9      26.7       24.1      33.3
           Yugra
   10      Kemerovo Region                21.2       40.3       32.7      27.8       46.1      31.9
   11      Omsk Region                    16.7       19.8       42.3      56.2       41.0      24.0
   12      Yaroslavl Region               41.8       40.9       45.6      43.9       12.6      15.2
   13      Novosibirsk Region             42.8       38.1       24.9      41.1       32.3      20.8
           Average value by pilot
                                          40.3       38.0       27.4      38.6       32.3      23.4
           regions
           Average value by regions
           that did not participate in    42.3       38.8       34.7      41.8       23.0      19.4
           the Project



                                            52

The integral indicator of subjective attitude of respondents to the socio-economic effects
of the current tax policy is their answer to the question whether or not this policy is fair
(see Table 24).

In the pilot regions, 52.6% of legal entities and 47.1% of individuals consider the
country's tax policy unfair. This number by 18.1% and 10.6% respectively exceeds the
number of taxpayers who consider the country's tax policy fair.

However, the comparison shows that the situation with regard to assessing fairness is
even worse in the non-pilot regions. 57.4% of legal entities and 51.2% of individuals
there consider the tax policy unjust and unfair.

Thus, the Project has efficiently affected the view of tax policy as fair in the pilot regions.
Although the predominant negative answers argue that the work in this area should be
enhanced.

Table 24. Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment of tax policy fairness

                                         Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment
                                                         of tax policy fairness, %
   No                Region                Basically fair    Basically unfair          No answer
                                                   LE &                  LE &                 LE &
                                          IND                  IND                  IND
                                                     SP                    SP                  SP
    1      Moscow Region                   60.4     24.8       27.6       62.1      12.0       13.2
    2      Saint-Petersburg                30.8     41.8       54.2       46.6      15.0       11.6
    3      Stavropol Region                22.3     28.0       63.1       61.0      14.6       11.0
    4      Rostov Region                   34.0     34.3       43.7       56.2      22.3       9.6
           Republic of
    5                                      32.9     31.1       46.3       53.8      20.8       15.1
           Bashkortostan
    6      Perm Region                     23.7     30.3       61.6       57.8      14.7       11.9
    7      Samara Region                   19.6     43.3       57.0       41.0      23.4       15.7
    8      Sverdlovsk Region               32.7     45.9       50.6       38.3      16.7       15.8
           Khanty-Mansijsk
    9      Autonomous District -           46.2     43.3       44.0       43.3       9.9       13.3
           Yugra
   10      Kemerovo Region                 22.6     31.9       62.2       50.0      15.2       18.1
   11      Omsk Region                     20.5     14.6       62.2       75.0      17.3       10.4
   12      Yaroslavl Region                29.7     28.8       56.6       54.5      13.7       16.7
   13      Novosibirsk Region              31.3     27.4       46.3       58.4      22.4       14.2
           Average value by pilot
                                           36.5     34.5       47.1       52.6      16.4       12.9
           regions
           Average value by regions
           that did not participate in     30.5     27.8       51.2       57.4      18.3       14.8
           the Project




                                             53

Most respondent taxpaying individuals in the pilot regions (34.0%) have positively
assessed the predictability of tax policy. The situation is less favorable with regard to
legal entities: most legal entities and sole proprietors (40.0%) negatively assess the
predictability of tax policy. However, the comparison shows a worse situation in the non-
pilot regions: most legal entities (46.0%) and individuals (24.0%) there have given a
negative estimate of the tax policy predictability.

Table 25. Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment of the tax policy
predictability

                                        Share of taxpayers broken down by their assessment
                                                   of the tax policy predictability,%
   No                Region              Rather positive    Rather negative       No answer
                                                   LE &               LE &              LE &
                                         IND                 IND                IND
                                                    SP                 SP                SP
    1      Moscow Region                  60.4     26.0      11.0      42.8      28.6    31.2
    2      Saint-Petersburg               30.8     29.9      35.2      39.4      34.0    30.7
    3      Stavropol Region               21.5     28.0      32.7      40.7      45.8    31.4
    4      Rostov Region                  33.5     26.4      27.2      52.2      39.3    21.3
           Republic of
    5                                     28.2     19.8      26.3      35.8      45.5    44.3
           Bashkortostan
    6      Perm Region                    20.0     19.3      36.3      56.0      43.7    24.8
    7      Samara Region                  18.2     32.8      33.2      28.4      48.6    38.8
    8      Sverdlovsk Region              32.3     40.2      21.2      24.4      46.5    35.4
           Khanty-Mansijsk
    9      Autonomous District -          34.1     28.3      22.0      40.0      44.0    31.7
           Yugra
   10      Kemerovo Region                12.9     15.3      34.6      47.2      52.5    37.5
   11      Omsk Region                    7.1      12.5      35.3      40.6      57.7    46.9
   12      Yaroslavl Region               30.2     28.8      42.3      33.3      27.5    37.9
   13      Novosibirsk Region             27.4     22.3      29.9      50.3      42.8    27.4
           Average value by pilot
                                          34.0     27.3      25.6      40.0      40.4    32.7
           regions
           Average value by regions
           that did not participate in    28.7     24.0      35.8      46.0      35.5    30.0
           the Project

To summarize, pilot regions show a more favorable situation than the regions not
involved in the Project.




                                            54

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Several stakeholder activities took place before and during the implementation of TAMP
II. They included: an initial project Identification Workshop, held November 13-17,
2000, at a conference center outside Moscow, under the auspices of the Ministry of
Taxation of the Russian Federation; and several stakeholder meetings during the project
with large taxpayers and other business groups. The goal of the identification workshop
was to identify areas of activity to be included in the TAMP II project (scope of work), to
identify priorities among the activities, and to determine the geographic coverage,
implementation strategy and management structure of the proposed project. The project
was based on lessons learned from TAMP I and thus the workshop began with a
recapitulation of what had occurred during TAMP I. The workshop agenda explicitly
noted that its purpose was not intended to determine how MinTax would operate in future
but only to identify areas of activity to be included in TAMP II in the interest of
assigning mutually agreed priorities. It was also not a forum for MinTax to present a pre-
determined program of TAMP II but rather was conceived as an open forum to discuss
ideas and to determine areas of activity that could be included in TAMP II.

Several stakeholder activities took place before and during the implementation of the
TAMP II Project. They included: an initial project Identification Workshop, held
November 13-17, 2000, at a conference center outside Moscow, under the auspices of the
Ministry of Taxation of the Russian Federation; and several stakeholder meetings during
the project with large taxpayers and other business groups.

The goal of the identification workshop was to identify areas of activity to be included in
the TAMP II project (scope of work), to identify priorities among the activities, and to
determine the geographic coverage, implementation strategy and management structure
of the proposed project. The project was based on lessons learned from TAMP I and thus
the workshop began with a recapitulation of what had occurred during TAMP I.

The workshop agenda explicitly noted that its purpose was not intended to determine how
MinTax would operate in future but only to identify areas of activity to be included in
TAMP II in the interest of assigning mutually agreed priorities. It was also not a forum
for MinTax to present a pre-determined program of activities for TAMP II but rather was
conceived as an open forum to discuss ideas and to determine areas of activity that could
be included in TAMP II. Last, the workshop was to be a context where international
experts from donor agencies, representatives from advanced revenue administrations, and
consulting firms, and other stakeholders, would interact in open discussion with staff of
MinTax to identify areas of interest and challenge that might constitute the ingredients of
a comprehensive revenue reform. Areas discussed in mixed groups of experts included:
organization and management; human resources and training; taxpayer interface;
registration/tax accounts/payments; declaration processing; arrears, sanctions, appeals,
and large taxpayer unit; information systems; legal framework; and audit. Groups were
coordinated by participants from the Canadian and Danish revenue administrations, the
US Treasury (Moscow), and the World Bank.



                                              55

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Achievement of Objectives

The Role and Place of "Tax Bodies Modernization-Project in the Development of the
Russian Tax System

Regardless of the improved performance of the Russian financial system in 1999-2003,
its serious institutional defects and financial risks required the relevant system measures.
In this light, tax system reform is a key measure, as it facilitates the strengthening of
macroeconomic stability.

In 2008  at completion of the TAMP-2 project  Project measures have become
increasingly important. The Budget Message of the President of the Russian Federation
to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation for 2009-2011 (June 2008) states that
"special focus shall be given to raise of quality of tax administration, including removing
of administrative barriers which hinder due fulfillment of tax duties, and efficient use of
tools to prevent tax evasion."

The project was introduced in conditions when the existing organizational structure,
management system and approaches to tax bodies' work were not used to their full extent
for efficient tax collection and, thus, created favorable environment for tax evasion. The
work of tax bodies was negatively viewed by the public. Moreover, many Russian
taxpayers viewed particular ways of tax evasion as acceptable. Today, it is too early to
say that all negative aspects have been overcome. But still, we can recognize that the
situation is increasingly changing for the better.

The above factors necessitated considerable changes in the tax policy and tax
administration, including tax system simplification and elimination of the elements which
create obstacles for the development of economy. It was necessary to develop the
principle of justice and neutrality of the tax system further, and reduce the tax burden on
law-abiding taxpayers.

Project's key objective is to alter the administrative thinking and existing institutional
culture of tax service, as well as to change over from the authoritarian control work style
of tax bodies to an up-to-date style based on provision of any possible assistance to
taxpayers in performing their obligations related to payment of taxes and any related
duties. The Project is aimed at introduction of tax law and its full and efficient application
within the system of tax collection.

Project's goal is to conduct the systematic reform and modernization of tax bodies of the
Russian Federation, which is aimed at:

           Extension of such principle as voluntary execution of obligations by the
            taxpayers;

           Increase of tax administration efficiency;

           Strengthening of enforced tax collection mechanisms;
           Increase professionalism and corporate ethics level;




                                             56

           Strengthening of the principle of justice and equality at the execution of tax
            law.

        Researches made by the Public Opinion Foundation (POF) show:

"Russian citizens still do not feel themselves valid taxpayers; however, they understand
the essence of paying taxes. 65% of respondents consider themselves as taxpayers, and
30% do not. 15% of respondents pay their taxes personally and not through their
accounting departments. A large number of respondents  24% - consider themselves
exempt from taxes. Total 39% of respondents do not know the answer, have difficulty in
answering or give a wrong answer to the question about the income tax rate (37% of
respondents give a correct answer). 37% of respondents are critical of those who do not
pay taxes, and 77% think that there are many citizens who evade taxes. Generally, most
respondents think that tax payment is a good and right thing to do, even if the system is
not quite fair. But 14% associate the word "taxpayer" with injustice imposed by the state.
73% have never seen their tax officer, but admittedly consider such people dishonest
(from 42% of respondents)."

With a view to the public opinion trends specified by POF, the imposed measures on
modernization and reforming the tax bodies should directly facilitate harmonization of
tax relation, strengthening the positive tendencies and overcoming the negative trends in
this sector.

Project Structure (Components) Analysis

The analysis of Project's components showed that the plan activities within the Project
was developed in line with the current demands of the Russian Ministry of Taxation as of
conclusion of loan agreement. During its implementation, the plan of Project measures
was adjusted in accordance with the changes in the Ministry's activities under the current
administrative reform. The following adjustments have been made:

  1. Some measures were excluded from the original plan as they became irrelevant,
      because the projected works were either completed or planned to be performed as
      the current activity of the FTS of Russia or they were transferred to the Russian
      Ministry of Finances. The measures taken under this Project require a complex
      procedure of approval. Therefore, some measures have been performed as the
      current operations of the FTS of Russia at the start of Project implementation. For
      example, the following large-scale packages were excluded from the original plan:
      10/TAMP/IBB/QCBS "Development of training programs and training of FTS
      officers on various subjects and types of activity" (the cost exceeding $11.5 mln)
      and 35/TAMP/IICA/ICB "Developing and introducing software to file reports in
      electronic form" ($1mln). The above packages included measures under
      subcomponent 5, "Change management" of component 1A "Organization and
      management"; subcomponent 2 "Training and further training" of component 2B
      "Human resources management and training"; subcomponent 1 "The system of
      electronic filing of tax documents" of component 6C "Development of electronic
      document circulation". Package 10 was eliminated because additional training of
      government officials had to be performed under the state decree subject to Federal
      Law of the Russian Federation No 79-FZ of July 27, 2004 On the Government
      Service of the Russian Federation. The federal budget allocated almost RUR


                                            57

380mln for the above purposes in 2006-2007. According to the report submitted to
the Coordinating Board, this amount is enough to satisfy the training needs of the
tax bodies in 2006-2007. Package 35 was eliminated because most of the works
included in its implementation had been either completed, or fulfilled by the FTS of
Russia under "The basic areas of development of information cooperation between
the tax bodies and the taxpayers (2005-2010)" when the decision to eliminate them
was made.

However, the purchase of works involving the organizational development of the
tax bodies was to a great extent excluded from the original plan due to the
administrative reform of federal agencies of the executive branch conducted in
2004. For example, the following measures were excluded from the original
purchase plan: package 29/TAMP/IA/QCBS "The analysis of organizational
structure of the Ministry of Taxation" which included works under subcomponents
1 "Organizational structure" and 2 "Management systems" of component 1A
"Organization and management". A part of works was completed under the Federal
Target Program "Tax bodies' development (2002-2004)".

The original measures plan approved by the decision of the Coordination Board of
December 18, 2007, eliminated 30 packages on measures and most of training
programs included in the original plan approved by the decision of the Coordination
Board of June 17, 2003:

 1/TAMP/ST "Organization of training programs" (in part);

 6/TAMP/IIIA/IC "Project advisor";

 10/TAMP/IBB/QCBS "Development of training programs and training of FTS
 officers on various subjects and types of activity";
 21/TAMP/IICA/IC "Development of requirements for the system of filing reporting
 documents in electronic form";
 22/TAMP/IIDB/IC "Development of information system to improve the methods of
 revealing the cases of unjustified demands for VAT compensation and reduction of
 their number";
 23/TAMP/IICB/ICB "Development of software to collect and review information
 provided by the third parties";
 26/TAMP/IICB/ICB "Purchase of software, hardware and other services";

 27/TAMP/IA/QCBS "Development and introduction of modeling and forecasting
 system for tax revenues";
 28/TAMP/IIDE/SBCQ "Development of concept of electronic accounting of
 invoices";
 29/TAMP/IA/QCBS "Analysis of organizational structure of the Ministry of
 Taxation";
 32/TAMP/IICB/SBCQ         "Development of Architecture for data exchange,
 specifications of software, hardware and telecommunication equipment for the
 system of tax payments accounting";
 34/TAMP/IIAB/NCB        "Development of information system (software) for
 assessment of settled legal proceedings";


                                       58

 35/TAMP/IICA/ICB "Development and introduction of software for filing
 reporting documents in electronic form";
 38/TAMP/IIDB/NCB "Development of information system to Improve the methods
 of revealing the cases of unjustified demands for VAT compensation and reducing
 their number";
 39/TAMP/IIDD/QCBS "Development of requirements to field tax inspections"
 relative to the development/adjustment and introduction of software (field office
 system);
 42/TAMP/IC/ICB       "Designing,     development    and   introduction of modern
 information technologies software providing support for all aspects of tax
 management";
 44/TAMP/IC/NCB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment of
 information system for tax management";
 45/TAMP/IICA/ICB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment for
 filing reporting documents in electronic form";
 47/TAMP/IC/NCB "Designing, development and introduction of information
 management system software for tax bodies of all levels";
 51/TAMP/IIDG/NCB "Development of software for submission of information on
 income and property of citizens to social safety authorities to obtain social
 benefits";
 54/TAMP/IBC/QCBS "Development and introduction of strategy to prevent
 potential misconduct by some tax officers, methods for assessment of tax officers'
 honesty and their fair treatment of taxpayers";
 55/TAMP/IC/ICB "Development and introduction of software for information
 system of HR management";
 56/TAMP/IC/ICB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment for tax
 bodies' operations";
 57/TAMP/IIDD/QCBS "Development and introduction of software (field office
 system)";
 59/TAMP/IIFB/NCB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment for
 monitoring of taxpayers' servicing in the largest inspectorates";
 63/TAMP/IIE/QCBS "Development and introduction of software for automated
 system of debt management";
 64/TAMP/IIDD/ICB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment for
 inspectors involved in field inspections";
 65/TAMP/IIE/ICB "Purchase of software, hardware and other equipment for
 automated system of debt management";
 67/TAMP/IBB/SSS "Conduct of joint seminars with judicial authorities".

 The above packages provided for 104 measures (of 189 originally planned),
 including 9 measures to purchase goods (of 24), 33 measures to provide
 consultations and technical maintenance (of 83) and 62 training measures (of 75).
 Thus, over half of the originally planned measures were eliminated during the
 Project implementation. The most affected were training programs: only 9 training


                                        59

     programs had been completed during the whole period of project implementation,
     and 3 of them were conducted by the FTS of Russia. Most probably, this situation
     was related to legislative changes involving government officials' training
     introduced in summer of 2004. Certainly, it was hardly possible to foresee such
     changes at the development stage, therefore, such considerable deviation from the
     original plan may be attributed to force-majeure circumstances.

     It was later decided to conduct many of eliminated measures at the federal budget
     expense. "Modified list of works on informatization of FTS of Russia for 2008"
     approved on April 30, 2008 was developed in accordance with the decree of the
     Head of the Federal Tax Service of November 20, 2007 No MM-22-13/0001138.
     List of works related to informatization of the Russian FTS for 2008 included many
     of packages that had been eliminated earlier. Most works are planned for the 3 and
     the 4th quarters of 2008.

2.   The measures plan included 10 new packages and one new measure added to the
     existing package 40/TAMP/IIE/QCBS, thus, the plan includes 11 new measures.
     For     example,    the   plan    includes    consulting  services    on   package
     79/TAMP/IIFC/QCBS "Creation and introduction of the unified information
     resource of questions and answers related to different aspects of the tax law to
     develop instructions on completing tax returns understandable to taxpayers". The
     new package results from the need to increase the quality of work of tax bodies'
     information referral departments, advance answers to most of the taxpayers'
     questions, and expand the development of taxpayer-friendly instructions on
     completing tax returns. In general, new measures included in the purchase plan
     were driven by their relevance or new functional responsibilities of the FTS of
     Russia.

     Some measures included into new packages were originally planned, for example,
     training under package 88/TAMP/IBB/QCBS "Training of Russian FTS officers at
     electronic data processing systems (EDP)". This measure was included in package
     10 which had been eliminated. Besides, 3 measures were singled out into separate
     packages (like "Development of instructions on completing tax returns
     understandable to taxpayers" which was transferred from package 52 to a separate
     package 70.) 8 measures were included into and excluded from the plan during
     Project     implementation.     For    example,     consulting     services  under
     80/TAMP/IICA/QCBS "Development of recommendations to improve indicators
     set in tax returns based on the experience of developed countries". The package was
     included into the purchase plan due to the need to increase the efficiency of tax
     bodies performance by reducing labor hours spent on transferring hard copies
     information into electronic form by cutting down the number of indicators in
     returns. The package was eliminated because its measures are duplicated by the
     measures of FTS Russia taken in accordance with the List of Works on
     Informatization of FTS Russia for 2007 which are funded by the federal budget.

To summarize, we can conclude that inclusion and exclusion of into/from the original
plan resulted from:




                                            60

          Completion of the planned measures as the current operations of the FTS
           Russia;

          Changes in the legislation in line with current reforms; and
          Conduct of federal targeted programs and increased funding from the federal
           budget.

Exclusion of several measures does not mean they are completely eliminated, quite the
opposite, many of such measures have been stipulated by law. This fact may be
recognized as a positive effect of the Project on the FTS's activity. Inclusion of new
measures proves that modernization of the tax service goes so deep that this may result in
increased efficiency of Project implementation.

3.    Deadlines for package implementation, their cost or purchase methods have been
      changing (sometimes simultaneously), and some packages have been put together.
      Such changes were aimed at:

         Optimization of loan funds expenses by minimizing costs at purchase of large
           lots of single-type equipment; consolidation of work performed by
           consultants;
         Coordination of terms for implementation of related measures;

         Avoiding the duplication of measures planned under the Project and work
           completed as the current operations of FTS of Russia.

      Thus, the following packages were put together: 30/TAMP/IIFB/QCBS
      "Development of strategy for provision of consulting services to taxpayers",
      50/TAMP/IICA/QCBS "Development of strategy of information cooperation
      between tax bodies and taxpayers by means of telecommunication" and
      71/TAMP/IIFB/IC "Defining the standards of services provided to taxpayers". The
      packages were put together to avoid inconsistent results on closely related works
      from different contractors. Another example: funding and deadlines for
      implementation of 12/TAMP/IIG/QCBS "Development of methods of efficient
      management of work with the largest taxpayers" were increased due to extended
      Technical Specification, which according to the rules and procedures of the
      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development automatically results in the
      change of purchase method from the qualification of bidders to price and quality
      selection.


In line with the Technical Specification, we have analyzed the Project structure
(components) to define measures implemented under the Project. The analysis showed
that the decisions were made to eliminate several measures on all components, except 5,
during Project implementation. Besides, additional measures were taken and planned on
the same components. The planned measures remained unchanged by component 5
"Unified state register of taxpayers". Measure 61 was included both in the original and
the final purchase plans (including 3 training programs supervised by the FTS of Russia).
In total, 46 measures were implemented under the Project, including training programs
supervised by the FTS of Russia and two direct contracts with the Main Scientific and
Research Computer Center (MSRCC). The above measures include 12 training, 12


                                            61

product and 24 consulting measures and measures on technical maintenance. As of
January 1, 2008, 33 measures were at the stage of development, including two direct
contracts with MSRCC, audit and 4 measures to assess the Project supervised by the FTS
of Russia. Among them are 26 consulting measures and measures of technical
maintenance, 1 training measure. Three product packages are at the stage of conclusion
of contracts. FTS of Russia supervises 26 measures, including 3 completed training
programs.

The Project's purpose was the modernization of Russian tax bodies aimed at:
            Wider dissemination of such principle as voluntary execution of taxpayer's
             obligations;
            Increase of tax administration efficiency;
            Increase of mechanisms for enforced collection of tax payments;
            Increase in professional level of tax officers and corporate ethics;
            Increase of fairness and equality at execution of tax legislation.

1. The principle of voluntary execution of taxpayer's obligations is characterized by two
indicators: "Share of returns received in due time" and "Share of voluntary tax revenues".

              Positive influence of the Project on such indicator as "Share of returns
               received in due time" consists in the fact that in spite of its initially high
               level such indicator is still more "increased" and reached the average rate
               of 96.3% in the 1st quarter of 2008 (for reference, the regions not involved
               in the Project show 94.8%). Besides, a number of measures have not been
               completed yet, and we can wait for additional results in what concerns
               timely delivery of tax returns only upon completion of the Project.

              Lack of pronounced increase for such indicator as "Share of voluntary tax
               revenues" in pilot regions is connected with the fact that a number of
               measures under Component 9 were completed only in the 1st quarter of
               the year 2007, and some measures are still at the stage of completion.
               Thus, we can wait for effect of such measures no sooner than in the
               middle of 2008.

              Polling of managers showed that 61.5% of respondents think that the
               purpose of the Project under consideration has been achieved.

Thus, we can say that the purpose  wider distribution of such principle as voluntary
execution of taxpayers' obligations  has been mostly achieved.

2. For the purposes of the given Contract, Increase of tax administration efficiency is
characterized by such indicators as "Average number of days required to notify registered
taxpayers in tax default", "Share of tax returns filed by post or electronically", "Share of
taxpaying organizations submitting reporting documents via telecommunication channels
in the total number of taxpaying organizations actually reporting and conducting
business", "Relative variation of taxes payable", "Degree of computer application by the
tax service officers", "Average time for completing returns by different categories of
taxpayers".


                                             62

             Average number of days required to notify registered taxpayers in tax
              default in pilot regions is lower than in regions that did not participate in
              the Project. Thus we can make a conclusion that the Project had
              significant positive influence on efficiency of work of tax officers, which
              shows its high effectiveness in this aspect.

             Measures taken under the Project had positive effect on submitting of
              reports in electronic format. Thus, since 2004, after implementation of the
              said measures in pilot regions was begun, we could observe uniform
              progressive growth of the indicator under consideration by 10% per year.
              At the end of 2005, all the measures related to purchase of the equipment
              were completed, and since 2006 the indicator has started to grow even
              more quickly  20% per year.

             No distinct positive influence of Project implementation on such indicator
              as "Share of taxpaying organizations submitting reporting documents via
              telecommunication channels" was observed.

             Positive influence of realization of Project measures on the whole shall be
              confirmed by dynamics of such indicator as relative change of tax burden.
              As significant part of measures under this Component was completed only
              in October 2007, one shall wait for additional positive results starting from
              the year 2008.

             Exceeding of indicator "Degree of computerization" in pilot regions
              compared with regions that did not participate in the Project, shows
              efficiency of Project implementation in what concerns effectiveness of its
              implementation with regard to provision of FTS officers with personal
              computers. Prior to commencement of the Project implementation, there
              was not even 1 computer per officer in some regions. Upon completion of
              the Project, in all the pilot regions this indicator exceeded one, which also
              testifies to positive influence of the Project on provision of FTS officers
              with PCs.

             Conduct of such activity as "Development of instructions for filling of tax
              returns clear for the taxpayer " for individuals can be considered effective.
              It is especially relevant, taking into account that according to the polling
              results, almost half of population in Samara Region cannot understand the
              form of income return and development of corresponding instructions in
              this case is the necessary step. However, in terms of development of
              instruction for legal entities this issue shall be studied more carefully.

             Inquiry among managers demonstrated that 92.3% of respondents consider
              that the Project purpose under consideration has been achieved.

Thus, the purpose  increase of efficiency of tax administration  has been achieved.

3. Strengthening of mechanisms for enforced collection of tax payments for the purposes
of this Contract shall be characterized by the following indicators: "Growth of additional



                                             63

tax assessments resulting from field tax inspections" and "Average sum of additional tax
assessments resulting from field tax inspections".

       By the year 2008, in all the pilot regions the volume of additional tax assessments
        resulting from field tax inspections increased rather significantly. Besides, as of
        April 1, 2008, the considered indicator in pilot regions exceeds both the indicator
        for non-pilot region and the indicator for the Russian Federation on the whole.
        There is no doubt that these indicators demonstrate positive effect of Project
        implementation.

       If comparing pilot regions with the regions, in which the Project was not
        implemented, one can notice that such indicator as "Average sum of additional tax
        assessments resulting from field tax inspection" is a little bit higher in non-pilot
        regions. However, it would not be correct to talk about inefficiency of the Project
        based only on this factor. Basic measures, which could influence efficiency of
        field inspections, were completed only in November 2007, and effect of their
        realization should be awaited no sooner than in 2008. At the same time it is
        possible to notice that in the 1-st quarter of 2008 the indicator in pilot regions
        became 2.6 times as much compared with the similar period of the previous year,
        while in non-pilot regions it became only 1.5 times as much.

       Interviews with managers demonstrated that 57.7% of respondents consider that
        the Project purpose has been achieved.

Thus, the purpose consisting in strengthening of mechanisms for enforced collection of
tax payments has been most likely achieved.

4. Increase in professional level of tax officers for the purposes of this Contract shall be
characterized by the following indicators: "Average time necessary for newly established
entities for registration with tax bodies", "Tax officers' labor productivity", "Share of
officers who negatively assess the quality and quantity of measures aimed at advanced
professional training in the total number of responding tax officers", "Share of taxpayers
who assess the quality of services rendered by tax bodies as satisfactory in the total
number of interviewed".

       Based on the results of the survey conducted in non-pilot regions, average time
        required for registration with tax bodies is somewhat less  10.8 days; besides, the
        rate of legal entities and sole proprietors, who spend up to 5 days for registration
        in regions not participating in the Project is higher  30.8%. Nevertheless, it is
        difficult to talk about inefficiency of the Project in this case, as completion of
        basic measures under this indicator has been planned only for the first half of the
        year 2008.

       In 2002-2007, tax officers' labor productivity in pilot regions increased and
        became 2.7 times more, while in non-pilot regions it became 2.3 more. Therefore,
        the Project has undoubtedly proved to be efficient in terms of this indicator.

       In pilot regions the share of officers who do not think that they have received
        knowledge they need for work in the course of professional retraining was on



                                              64

        average 17.8%, which is by 1.8% lower than in regions not participating in the
        Project. It testifies to more efficient professional training in pilot regions, which
        proves successfulness of training events conducted within the framework of the
        Project.

       Based on the results of the survey, things are worse with the number of measures
        aimed at improvement of tax officers' qualification in pilot regions. Nevertheless,
        it would not be correct to interpret this result of the survey as a clear evidence of
        worse situation with professional training in pilot regions compared with non-
        pilot ones, as more active professional training stimulates for its further
        enlargement and extension.

       The results of survey conducted among individuals show that public opinion on
        the whole can be characterized by positive attitude to tax officers' activity. It is
        possible to judge about efficiency of the Project if comparing the results with the
        results received in non-pilot regions. Such comparison is almost completely in
        favor of pilot regions. Thus, one can say that positive effect of the measures
        conducted within the framework of the Project may be observed. One shall expect
        additional effect of the Project during the first half of the year 2008.

       Survey conducted among managers showed that 65.4% of respondents consider
        that the purpose of the Project under consideration has been achieved.

Thus, the purpose consisting of increase of tax officers' professionalism has been most
likely achieved.

5. Increase of fairness and equality at execution of tax legislation for the purposes of this
Contract is characterized by the following indicators: "Share of taxpayers who positively
assess: the effect of tax policy on business environment; predictability of tax policy; unity
and consistency of applying the tax law; fairness and justice of appealing decisions and
the ability of tax bodies to react to taxpayers' complaints", "Share of taxpayers and other
interested parties who consider tax officers absolutely honest in the total number of
respondents", "The proportion of the number of complaints resolved in non-judicial
procedure (by the superior tax bodies) to the number of claims to tax bodies considered in
courts".

       The results of the survey revealed rather high number of those who are
        dissatisfied with influence of tax policy on business environment in the country,
        justice or tax policy and its predictability. However, that still cannot prove
        inefficiency of the Project. Comparison with non-pilot regions shows that the
        share of dissatisfied taxpayers in those regions is even higher. Thus, we can
        observe more favorable picture in pilot regions than in regions, where the Project
        was not implemented. That testifies to the Project efficiency. However, prevailing
        number of negative replies according to the results of survey means that one shall
        not be satisfied with what has already been achieved.




                                              65

   On the whole, both individuals and legal entities as well as sole proprietors
    consider that the major part of tax officers are honest people. It is a good result
    taking into account today's low trust of citizens to officials.

   Fast growth of ratio between the number of appeals considered during non-
    judicial procedure and the number of applications filed against tax bodies that are
    considered by courts in pilot regions results from the influence of several factors.
    This also includes effect from Project implementation, as measures under
    Component 4 started exactly in the end of the year 2006. Complete result of
    Project implementation may be awaited after completion of the measure  after
    May 2008. However, one can notice than according to the results of the 1st
    quarter 2008 the ratio between the number of appeals considered in non-judicial
    procedure and the number of claims filed to tax bodies and considered by courts
    was already 88.2%, and exceeded the same indicator for non-pilot regions by over
    30%.

   The survey conducted among managers showed that 53.8% of respondents
    consider that the purpose of the Project under consideration has been achieved.

Thus, the purpose consisting in strengthening of fairness and equality at execution of
tax legislation has been most likely achieved.




                                         66

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    67

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Chushkin, D.A. Deputy Head, Federal Tax Service (RF), correspondence to Amit
Mukherjee, Acting Sector Director. "Justification for excluding 15 packages from being
executed under the TAMP II Project. No. 13-0-07/000226, November 7, 2007.

Ibid., Annual Report based on TAMP-2 Project Performance Indicators for 2006.
Moscow, RF: Federal; Tax Service 2007..

Conrad, Robert. Trip Report Russia Memorandum, March 2008. A review of four
proposals for tax changes, with references to the current status of tax reforms..

Correspondence from the Bank Russia Country Director to the General Director of the
Federal Center for Project Finance (Russia): Change of Rating of the Second Tax
Administration Modernization Project (TAMP 2), April 30, 2008. .

Desai, Raj M. "Enhancing Russia's Competitiveness and Innovative Capacity," BEEPS
2005 Report, Chapter 5. Washington, D.C.: World Bank Group, 2005.

Doing Business 2008--Russia. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank Group, 2008.

Energy Information Administration, Major Non-OPEC Countries' Oil Revenues, June
2005.

Federal Center for Project Finance (PIU), Description of Project Status and
Implementation Progress, April 1, 2008.

Gorodnichenko, Yuriy, Jorge Martinez-Vazquez, and Klara Sabirianova Peter. (February
19, 2008). "Russia's economic and fiscal successes since adopting a flat tax in 2001...."
VOX.

Ibid., Myth and Reality of Flat Tax Reform: Microestimates of Tax Evasion Response
and Welfare Effects in Russia, Forschungsinstitut zur Zukunft der Arbeit (Institute for the
Study of Labor) , December 2007.

Hellevig, Jon, Artem Usov, Tauno Tiusnaen, "The Russian Tax Reform Paving Way for
Investments, Publication 21, NORDI Series, Lappeenranta, Finland 2005.

"Implementation of World Bank-Financed Projects: A Note on the ECA Experience with
Project Implementation Units, Part I." Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Unit, ECA. March 2001.

Indem, Diagnostics of Russian Corruption, July 19, 2006.

ISRs from 2003 to 2008.




                                            68

Ivanova, Anna, Micheal Keen, and Alexander Klemm. The Russia Flat Tax Reform.
IMF Working Paper 05/16.. Washington, D.C.: IMF, January 2005.

Library of Congress, Federal Research Service, Country Profile Russia: Russia, October
2006.
Ministry of Taxation of the Russian Federation, Identification Workshop: Tax
Administration Modernization Project, November 13-17, 2000, Moscow, Russia.

Oxford Analytica "Russia: Fiscal Transparency, December 2006, pp 428-444.

"Paying Taxes 2008: The Global Picture." Results of Doing Business Project.
Washington and London: The World Bank and PriceWaterhouseCoopers [2008].

"Russia's tax reform improves the investment climate," Jerusalem Post, July 11, 2007.

Sester, Brad. Oil and Global Adjustment. Roubini Global Economics and the Global
Economics Governance Center, Oxford University, 2007.

Supervision Mission Aide-memoires.

TAMP II Project Appraisal Document

Tax Administration in OECD Countries; Comparative Information Series (2004). Paris:
Centre for Tax Policy and Information, October 2004.

Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index 2005

World Bank Group Webpage, Russian Federation, Data and Statistics, November 2007.

Ibid., "Old Tax Habits Die Hard in Russia," 2001.




                                          69

         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of 