FiLE COPY                          RESTRICTED
RepoA No. PU-69a
Thb report is for official us only by the Ba Goup aod secificay authorized orpaizations
or peson& It maY not be publieked, quoted or cited without Bak Group authoriztion. The
Bank Group does not accept tespondility for the accurcy or completenes of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A TRANSMISSION PROJECT
OF THE
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
TURKEY
May 28, 1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  - Lira (LT)
1 LT           =  100 Kurus (krs)
US$1           =  LT 15
LT 1           = US$0.07
LT 1,000,000   =  Us$67,000
Weights and Measures
kW                       Kilowatt
MW                    -  1,000 kW
kWh                   =  Kilowatt hour
GWh = Gigawatt hour  =  1,000,000 kWh
One meter (m)         =  3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)   =  0.624 mile
List of Initials and Acronyms
TEK   -  Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
DSI   -  Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
EIEI  -  Elektrik Isleri Etut Idaresi (Electric Planning and
Statistical Agency)
IETT  - Istanbul Elektrik Tramway & Tunnel (Istanbul
Municipal Agency)
SWOCI - Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants, Inc.



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSMISSION PROJECT OF THE
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSTONS ....... ............................
1.   INTRODUCTION ........          .................................1
2.   THE ECONOMY ..........................................                      2
3.    TRE SECTOR        .................................. .                     3
Organization ........ ................ .                                 3
The Development Program .....        ...............                     5
4.    THE PROJECT       ....................................                     6
Components of the Project ..... ..............                           6
Estimated Cost of the Project ..... ............                         6
Engineering and Procurenment ..... .............                         7
Disbursement   ....................................                      8
Administration of the Project ..... ............                         8
5.   JUSTIFICATION    ...................................                        8
The Market       ...................................                     8
Sales Forecast ....... ................ .                                9
Least Cost Solution ...... .................                             9
Internal Financial Rate of Return ......... .........                   10
6.   THE BORROWER         ...................... ...................            10
Organization ........         ...............................           11
Important Issues Facing TEK .....           ...................         11
Management and Staff               ..............................       12
Technical Assistance - Accounting ......... .........                   13
Audit      ......................... .....................              13
7. FINANCES   ..14
Asset Revaluation    ..14
Present Financial Condition and Past Earnings                           15
Tariffs       ........................ ....................             16
Performance Under Loan 568-TU ...........        .. .........           16
Financing Plan .................... .................                   17
Future Earnings  .......         .............................          18
Proposed Rate of Return Covenant .................          ..          19
Future Financial Position .....           .....................         20
8.    RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................                    20
This Report was prepared by Messrs. J. Fish, R. H. Rollet and I. Mathai.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Principal Generating Stations in Service and under Construction
on TEK Interconnected Systems, at the end of 1970
2.   Interconnected System Capability and Maximum Demand
3.   TEK Development Program 1971-1977
4.   Estimated Cost of the Project
5.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
6.   Growth of Electricity Sales and Consumption in Turkey
7.   Calculation of Internal Financial Rate of Return
*             8.   Organization Chart
9.   Indices for Revaluation of Assets
10.   Revaluation of Etibank Assets
11.   Revaluation of Etibank and DSI Assets
12.   Balance Sheets of Etibank Power Group and TEK 1968-1977
13.   Income Statements of Etibank Power Group and TEK 1968-1977
14.   Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970-1977
15.   Main Assumptions Underlying Income Forecasts of TEK for 1970-1977
MAP






TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSMISSION PROJECT OF THE
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.   This report appraises a Project for expanding the power system of the
Turkish Electricity Authority (Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu, or TEK, the govern-
mental agency responsible for power development in Turkey). The Project
includes transmission lines, substations, and special construction equip-
ment. Its estimated cost is Turkish Lira (LT) 1,058.5 million (US$70.6
million), the foreign exchange component of which would be LT 418.5 mil-
lion (US$27.9 million). A Bank loan of US$24 million equivalent has been
requested to cover most of the foreign exchange component including interest
during construction. The borrower would be TEK.
ii. Demand for elecrical energy in Turkey has been increasing at an annual
rate of about 11% for the past ten years, and about the same average rate
of growth is expected for the next ten years. Expansion of the electricity
supply industry has involved, on the one hand, changes in organization
(initiated partly by the Bank) culminating in the emergence of TEK this
year, and on the other, physical development characterized by the estab-
lishment of a national grid for power transmission and exploitation of the
country's hydroelectric resources. An earlier Bank loan (568-TU) is help-
ing to finance the most important line of the new system from the 900-MW
Keban hydroelectric plant to Ankara and Istanbul. The Project now under
consideration carries the development of the national grid a stage further
by the construction of various links and additions which unite or strengthen
existing installations. The works in this Project are substantially TEK's
electricity transmission construction program for the period 1971 - 1974.
Mii.      Since 1952, the Bank has made three loans (total US$61.7 million)
and IDA has extended two credits (total US$25.7 million) to the Government
of Turkey for developments in the power sector. Also, in 1965, the Bank
approved a technical assistance grant of US$1.95 million to cover the foreign
exchange costs of studies of the reorganization of the power sector in Turkey.
Of this amount, about $1.0 million has been spent or committed. The first stage
of the work -- a study defining the needs of the electric power sector with
emphasis on accounting and engineering training -- has been completed. The
second phase, comprising technical assistance to TEK in accounting and
management, is now under way.
iv.       Law No. 1312 of July 1970, creating TEK, became effective on
October 25, 1970. The Power Group of Etibank, a State Economic Enterprise
with holdings in mining and banking as well as power, was transferred to
TEK as the nucleus of the new organization. TEK's organization will re-
require modification to cope with the increased autonomy and new respon-
sibilities granted by Law 1312. TEK is now negotiating with Electricite
de France (EdF) to provide advice on these matters, including village
electrification, as part of the third (and final) phase of the technical
assistance program covered by the Bank grant referred to in iii above.



- ii -
v.        Procurement of materials and equipment to be financed by the pro-
posed loan would be by international competitive bidding, and participation
of local manufacturers (principally for electrical conductor and small trans-
formers) is anticipated and would be permitted with a 15% preference. The
Bank loan would be used to finance the full cost to TEK of the materials
whether procured locally or offshore; therefore in the event local manufac-
turers win all contracts for which they are eligible to bid, up to $1.5
million in local costs may be financed from the proposed loan.
vi.       The proposed loan would finance 85% of the foreign exchange cost
of the Project; the remaining 15% is for equipment, principally transformer-
financed through Romanian credits, for which financing has already been
arranged. However, the Project accounts for only 20% of TEK's development
program through 1974, and 12% of the program to 1977 which is the limit of
TEKts current planning. TEK's internal cash generation would finance at
least 27% of the proposed capital investment program for 1971-1974.
vii.      Loan 568-TU requires Etibank (and by succession, TEK) to earn
a return of 8% on realistically valued net fixed assets. During negotia-
tions for the proposed loan, agreement was reached extending this under-
taking to the proposed loan and providing for a semi-annual review of the
earnings position and some automaticity in adjusting tariffs to deal with
changes in fuel costs. A tariff increase equivalent to 60% from June 1, 1971,
is needed to meet these requirements. During negotiations TEK and Government
agreed to raise tariffs to the requisite extent.
viii.     The TEK law provides that the hydroelectric assets of the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) will be transferred to TEK free of debt; Government
retains the liabilities. TEK has interpreted the law as permitting payment
to Government of a portion of TEK's operating surpluses which may be con-
sidered a form of return on Govertment equity. This is satisfactory.
ix.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$24 million to TEK
for a term of 25 years with a grace period of about 4 years. Implementa-
tion of the tariff increase would be a condition of effectiveness.



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSMISSION PROJECT OF THE
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a Project comprising most of the new trans-
mission and substation works which are to be constructed between mid-1971
and 1974 by the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK). TEK and the Govern-
ment have asked the Bank to make a loan of US$24 million equivalent towards
the cost of the Project which would meet most of the foreign exchange cost
of the Project, including interest on the proposed loan during the construc-
tion period. The estimated cost of the Project is LT 1,058.5 million (US$70.6
million). TEK would be the borrower and the Government of Turkey the guar-
0       antor.
1.02      The Project is part of TEK's development program covering trans-
mission and generation for the Turkish grid during the seven years 1971
through 1977, which is estimated to cost about LT 20,000 million (US$1,300
million). Distribution work by municipalities, and generation and trans-
mission facilities costing LT 1,395 million (US$93 million) undertaken
by the Cukurova Electric Company (Cukurova) in the same period, are the
remaining major works in the sector program.
1.03      The construction of a national interconnected system of power
transmission comprising a 380-kV extra high voltage (EHV) grid supplement-
ing a 154-kV system is being undertaken by TEK. The first stage of the
EHV system, consisting of transmission lines and related substations to
connect the Keban and Gokcekaya hydro projects with Ankara and Istanbul,
is now under construction, and is being financed partly by the Bank (Loan
568-TU of $25 million, par. 1.05). TEK's 1971-1977 program includes con-
struction of the second stage of the EHV system, and additions to the 154-
_       kV system (lines and substations) principally in the central and eastern
regions of the country.  When the program has been completed, all major
distribution systems and power stations in Turkey will have been inter-
connected.
1.04      The Government, with the Bank's encouragement, has long envisaged
the setting up of an autonomous power authority to be responsible for elec-
tric energy development and operations throughout Turkey. Accordingly, the
"Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu" (TEK), a new state economic enterprise, was estab-
*         lished on October 25, 1970, by Law No. 1312, known as the TEK law.  TEK com-
menced operations by taking over the power group of Etibank, a state economic
enterprise with holdings in mining and banking as well as the greater part
of the power sector in Turkey.
1.05      The Bank has made three loans and IDA has made two credits to the
Government of Turkey for the power sector:



- 2 -
(i)  Loan 63-TU of US$25.2 million, for the multi-purpose
Seyhan Dam, 36-MW power plant and associated irrigation
and transmission works;
(ii) Credit 34-TU of US$1.7 million for a third unit of 18
MW at the Seyhan hydroelectric station;
(iii) Credit 59-TU of US$24.0 million, for a 100-MW thermal
station at Mersin, a 70-MW hydroelectric station at
Kadincik and associated transmission works; and
(iv) Loan 623-TU of US$11.5 million, for a second hydroelectric
plant at Kadincik (50 MW).
These four loans/credits were for works in the service area of the
Cukurova Electric Company (the four southern provinces on the
Mediterranean) and were re-lent in whole or part to Cukurova.
(v) Loan 568-TU of US$25 million which was re-lent to Etibank
for the 380-kV transmission lines from Keban to Istanbul
with associated sub-stations.
The Seyhan and Mersin projects have been completed and progress on the others
is satisfactory. In addition to this assistance, Turkey has received sub-
stantial aid from other multilateral and bilateral sources for power sector
development, notably from the European Investment Bank, France, Italy, Ger-
many, the USA, as well as some assistance from eastern bloc countries.
1.06      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting
of Messrs. R. H. Rollet and I. Mathai, who visited Turkey between September
20 and October 18, 1970, an updating mission in March 1971, and on a feasi-
bility study carried out by Etibank based on previous studies by Ebasco
Services, Stone & Webster, and Commonwealth Associates Inc., (USA).
2. THE ECONOMY
2.01      The republic of Turkey, about 780,000 km  in area, has a popula-
tion of about 35 million and a high population growth rate of about 2.6
percent per annum. About 65 percent of the population live in rural areas
and agriculture continues to dominate the economy though industrial produc-
tion is growing fast (10% in 1967 and 1968, and 9% in 1969 to 16.5% of GDP).
During the 1960s the country enjoyed rapid economic growth mainly as a re-
sult of this expansion of industrial production and increased construction
activity, but GNP per head is still only US$230 (1970) and per capita con-
sumption of electric energy, at 210 kWh/year, is only one fourth that of
neighboring Greece and barely one ninth that of Bulgaria. Inflation has
been a continuing problem for two decadea and on August 10, 1970, the Gov-
ernment again devalued the lira (from 1 US$ - 9 LT to 1 US$ - 15 LT). Ex-
ports consist predominantly of non-processed agricultural commodities like



-3-
cotton (21%), hazel nuts (20%), tobacco (15%) and fruits and vegetables
(10%) with industrial products forming 18%.
2.02      Having broadened the industrial structure to cover steel and
copper, heavy production equipment, consumer durable goods, phosphate and
nitrogen fertilizers, synthetic fibers, newsprint, etc., Turkey is now
planning the production of aluminum, major chemicals and plastics. There
is strong potential for mineral development and consumer products (e.g.
light electrical products).
2.03      Consumption of electric power has been growing at an average rate
of 11% per year and is expected to continue to grow at the same average
rate in future. At present industry accounts for about 72.5% of total
power consumption and is expected to stay at about that figure despite
the emphasis on connection of villages and other domestic and commercial
loads.
3. THlE SECTOR
Organization
3.01      The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources controls the power
sector. At the time of the formation of TEK in October, 1970, four state
organizations, a half-dozen or so private companies, a large number of
private industrial firms and more than 600 municipalities and villages
were involved with generating, transmitting and distributing electricity.
3.02      The state organizations include:
(i) Electrik Isleri Etut Idaresi (EIEI), the official planning
and statistical organization for the electrical supply
industry in Turkey other than those installations operated
by Etibank;
(ii) Etibank, a state economic enterprise, whose power group
(before TEK) planned, constructed and operated all major
thermal production plants and transmission lines throughout
Turkey, selling energy to the distribution agencies and
large industries;
(iii)  Iller Bank (the Provincial Bank), another state economic
enterprise which, in cooperation with the Ministry of
Village Affairs assists provincial governments, municipalities
and villages by financing and constructing public services,
including electricity; and
(iv) Devlet Su Isleri (DSI), the State Hydraulic Works, whose
duties include development of multipurpose hydro projects.



- 4 -
3.03      Amongst the private utility companies, by far the largest is the
Cukurova Electric Company which operates in the Adana area. The largest
municipal authorities are in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. These municipal-
ities are principally distributors who buy most of their energy from TEK.
Other municipal authorities are similarly organized and buy energy from
private producers or from TEK, Cukurova, or other suppliers. These munic-
ipal authorities and villages form 2/3 of TEK's customers and account for
half of TEK's total sales (40% to the three largest); the remainder of TEK's
1500 customers are largely industrial.
3.04      Law 1312 charges TEK with the responsibility to plan the general
electrification of Turkey including management of a village electrification
fund; to construct thermal electric plants and transmission and distribu-
tion lines; to operate the national transmission system and all the Inter-
connected power stations except those privately licensed (e.g. captive
industrial plants), and to sell energy to consumers in bulk or individual-
ly. DSI still plans and builds hydroelectric projects though it may now
only do so in cooperation with TEK. TEK has taken over operation of all
the power stations previously owned by Etibank and DSI, together with the
staff, and will take over those owned by Iller Bank and the municipalities
in due course. Cukurova and the other private utility companies are not
affected by the creation of TEK. The distribution networks may continue
to be owned and managed by the municipalities; however, TEK may take over
municipal undertakings by mutual agreement with the municipalities or if
they fail to pay their bills promptly. Development programs for distribu-
tion are initiated and implemented by each municipality. TEK has the re-
sponsibility for coordinating the various programs and from 1972 onward
TEK will review these programs. Village electrification will be carried
out by a special organization within TEK, financed by the separate fund,
to build distribution works within the village boundaries. The systems
are to be operated by the villages themselves under TEK's technical super-
vision.
3.05      The installed capacity of public generating plant in Turkey at
the end of 1970 was 1985 NW, consisting of 1718 MW (87%) in systems operated
by TEK, 154 MW (8%) in Cukurova's system and 113 MW (5%) in small, isolated
installations. In addition, private self-generation, mostly industrial,
totals about 300 MW.
3.06      At present TEK owns and operates several separate systems.  The
most important one, known as the interconnected system, supplies the west-
ern and central parts of the country from which over 90% of Turkey's elec-
trical demand originates; this system comprises 1,640 MW of generating plant
and about 5,300 km of 154-kV transmission lines and includes the first stage
of the EHV transmission system which will transmit power from the Keban and
Gokcekaya hydroelectric plants to Ankara and Istanbul, connect the new
thermal plant now being built at Seyitomer and extend to Izmir and the alum-
inum mill at Seydisehir (see Map). Other systems at Hazar, Kiti, and CagCag,
are very small, with installed capacities of under 20 MW each. When the
takeover from DSI and Etibank is complete, TEK will own 583 MW of hydro-
electric generating plants (190 MW Etibank and 393 MW DSI) and 753 MW of



-5-
modern thermal plant (from Etibank) burning coal, lignite and fuel oil. It
will own and operate most of the 382 MW of generating plant on consumers'
(mostly municipalities) networks forming part of the interconnected system.
Most of these plants are old and relatively inefficient, and will gradually
be replaced by larger and more efficient stations built and operated by TEK.
Details of the principal power stations in service and under construction
are shown in Annex 1.
3.07      The Government has negotiated an agreement with Bulgaria to im-
port power into the Istanbul area; a 220-kV transmission line interconnect-
ing with the Bulgarian system is to be completed early in 1972 for this
purpose. Power transfer will be limited to about 50 MW initially and the
tie will be operated as a "mutual support" link. Other international con-
nections (U.S.S.R., Syria, Iran) have been explored but found unfeasible.
The Development Program
3.08      The planned investment in generation and transmission during the
period 1971-1977 is LT 20,500 millions (US$1,367 millions). Investment
requirements for distribution and village electrification have not been
determined but may require an additional LT 3-4 billion. TEK is scheduled
to carry out itself or through DSI and others, works amounting to LT 19,105
millions (US$1,274 millions), 93% of the total, or most of the power sta-
tions and all the major transmission works in the plan; the balance consists
of extensions to the Cukurova system.
3.09      Annex 2 shows graphically the growth of maximum demand for the
whole country and the programmed additions to generating capacity. The
planned generating capacity includes a reserve of 20%. This is higher than
would normally be expected, but is an acceptable reserve position in view
of the rapid growth of the system and previously experienced delays in
commissioning of new plant.
3.10      The program includes the addition of about 1,654 MW of hydroelec-
tric plant (principally Keban, 900 MW, and Gokcekaya, 300 MW) and 1,790 MW
of thermal power stations (net of retirements) of which 320 MW is nuclear
(para. 5.04). About 2,500 km of 380-kV transmission lines are also included
as the second stage of the EHV system, as well as about 4,000 km of exten-
sions to the 154-kV network and about 2,000 km of lower voltage lines. When
the 154-kV program is completed, the remaining separate systems will be in-
tegrated into the TEK interconnected system. Interconnection of these sys-
tems with the main grid is a principal feature of the proposed Project.
Details of TEK's 1971-1977 development program are shown in Annex 3.
3.11      In addition to the proposed Project, TEK has also requested the
-        Bank to consider financing the 600-MW Elbistan thermal'plant.  This plant
would exploit a major lignite deposit near Keban, and is the next major
item in TEK's present investment program. Before agreeing to consider this
Project, the Bank has requested that Government review its energy policy,
and TEK undertake additional preliminary engineering and technical feasi-
bility studies.



- 6 -
4. THE PROJECT
Components of the Project
4.01      The Project consists essentially of TEK's transmission construction
program for 1971-1974.  The main components of the Project are:
(i) a new substation and more capacitors at Kayseri, a new
substation at Adapazari and additions at Umraniye (both
near Istanbul) to enable the 380-kV system to handle the
output of the 5th and 6th generating units at Keban;
(ii)  154-kV transmission lines with a total length of about
2,800 km, 154-kV underground cables and related works
in the Istanbul area to provide power to two new sub-
stations, and about 40 154-kV transformers totaling
1,300 MVA in existing and new substations;
(iii)  30-kV lines with a total length of about 1,000 km, 100
MVAR of distribution capacitors and 30 MVA of new trans-
formers in existing or new substations;
(iv)  the procurement of about 100 MVAR of low-voltage capacitors
to be installed on the distribution system in Istanbul; and
(v)  special vehicles and testing equipment for TEK's construc-
tion and operating departments, and training services in-
cluding computer software.
As is generally true of power system development, it is likely that the
specific requirements for individual project elements may change during
the execution of the works, particularly for subtransmission and primary
distribution equipment. Therefore, TEK would be allowed, with the Bank's
agreement, to modify the details of the Project to suit such developments.
4.02      The capacitors for the Istanbul system (item iv above) are needed
to improve service quality and transmission capability in the area. Arrange-
ments for their application are being discussed by the municipal power au-
thority of Istanbul (IETT) and TEK. During negotiations agreement was ob-
tained that TEK will, prior to awarding contracts for this equipment, enter
into an agreement with IETT satisfactory to the Bank providing for installa-
tion of the units on the IETT system. It is anticipated that the equipment
would remain the property of TEK.
Estimated Cost of the Project
4.03      The following is a summary of the estimated cost of the Project.
A more detailed estimate is given in Annex 4. The estimates are based on
the results of recent bidding on international markets and are reasonable.



- 7-
LT                      US$
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
--------------------million------------------
380-kV and
154-kV Sub-
stations            140.4   120.1   260.6      9.4    8.0    17.4
154-kV Trans-
mission lines       277.2   166.9   444.1    18.5   11.1    29.6
30-kV Works
and Miscel-
laneous              79.3    52.3   131.6      5.3    3.5      8.8
Equipment and
Staff Training       32.7    32.1    64.8      2.2    2.1      4.3
Price Contingencies 57.4    17.0    74.4        3.8    1.2     5.0
Total Construc-
tion Cost         587.0   388.5   975.5    39.2   25.9    65.1
Interest on
Bank Loan during
Construction          -      30.0      -       -       2.0     -
Total Foreign
Exchange Cost         -     418.5      -       -      27.9
Escalation has been estimated at about 5% for foreign costs and 10% for
local costs. These allowances are considered sufficient in view of the
early date by which orders should be placed and TEK's recent experience
with costs for similar works.  An allowance for physical contingencies is
unnecessary because of the nature of the Project.
Engineering and Procurement
4.04      Engineering for the Project is in progress by the staff of TEK's
Network Construction Department. This staff is well trained in 154-kV line
and substation engineering. TEK has obtained the assistance of the
Italian Electrical Research Center to advise on 380-kV system design, which
is satisfactory, and during negotiations TEK agreed to continue the associa-
tion with the Research Center or make other arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for expert engineering assistance in the design and construction
supervision of the 380-kV works.
4.05      All imported materials required for the Project would be financed
from the Bank loan with the exception of steel for transmission towers,
which would be imported under a Japanese commodity credit to the extent
local production is not sufficient, and about half of the medium-voltage



- 8 -
transformers for the Project for which financing has already been arranged
from Romania. The estimated cost of these materials is US$3.9 million
equivalent; the proposed Bank loan of US$24 million would finance the
remainder of the foreign exchange costs.
4.06      Materials and equipment financed from the proposed loan would be
purchased through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Local manufacturers, principally of conductors and small
transformers, would be allowed to compete, and TEK and the Government have
requested preferential treatment for these local suppliers. The Bank has
agreed to allow a 15% preference for these suppliers. Import duties on ma'e-
rials and components are high (e.g. 63% on aluminum and aluminum products).
A recent administrative decision permits waiver of these duties on a cas  by
case basis for large power projects but the waiver would not be applied
where protection of local industry is involved. The cost estimate for the
Project was prepared on the assumption that items purchased through inter-
national bidding would be awarded to foreign suppliers. In order to permit
full utilization of the loan, the full amount of such contracts including
those awarded to local suppliers would be financed from the loan. There-
fore, if local suppliers win all contracts for which they are expected to
bid, up to $1.5 million equivalent in local costs may be financed from the
loan.
Disbursement
4.07      Disbursements from the loan would be made only for the c.i.f. cost
(ex-factory for local suppliers) of equipment and materials imported for the
Project and the foreign exchange cost of services. Savings resulting from
favorable prices, which could not be applied to extension of the Project
works, would be cancelled.
Administration of the Project
4.08      The Project will be administered by the staff of TEK's Network
Construction Department. Steel towers will be erected by contractors
but the stringing of conductors, and the erection of substations, will be
carried out by TEK's crews. TEK's staff is well trained and has ex-
perience in this work and the arrangement is satisfactory. All work on
the Project is expected to be completed by the end of 1974.
5. JUSTIFICATION
The Market
5.01      Annex 6 shows electricity consumption in Turkey for various
classes of consumers over a number of years. As shown, total consumption
has grown at a nearly constant rate of 11% for the past 15 years. The
table shows the percentage of the total used by the various classes of
consumers in 1959 and 1969, and forecasts similar percentages for 1974
and 1979.



- 9-
1959     1969      1974      1979
Domestic and Commercial/i           20.6     20.6      23.5      23.6
Govermnent Offices                   2.8      3.9       3.0       2.7
Street Lighting                      3.2       2.8      1.9       1.6
Industry                            73.4     72.7      71.6      72.1
Total                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
/1   Includes traction, irrigation and villages.
Sales Forecast
5.02      Annex 6 also shows graphically TEK's sales forecast for 1970-1980.
TEK's forecast of sales and demand is based on a substation by substation
analysis of each class of consumer according to the past annual rates of
growth adjusted for addition of new industrial consumers. The percentage
increases in sales from the interconnected system (Etibank/TEK) from year
to year are also given in Annex 6. The high growth rates (18% to 29% in
1970-73 are due to the expected addition of isolated plants or systems to
the interconnected system, and the addition of specific new industries such
as the new USSR-financed aluminum plant to be commissioned in 1972 and to
be operating at full capacity in 1973. The new plant will have a demand of
220 J and require 1500GWh annually. Thereafter the rate of growth is
expected to taper off to 7% in 1976 but rise to 9% in 1977. The forecast
is based on a reasonable methodology, but may be conservative to the extent
tnat after 1976 the forecast growth rate is less than the long-term trend.
No correlation with the growth of GDP or its components has been attempted
due to uncertainties of data accuracy. The long-term system load factor is
expected to remain fairly constant except for a temporary rise due to
commissioning the aluminum plant.
Least Cost Solution
5.03      Only 10 years ago, electricity supply in Turkey consisted of a
large number of relatively small plants dispersed throughout the country
serving isolated systems. When Etibank started development on a large
scale, a review of hydroelectric and thermal energy resources was carried
out and seven alternative strategies for system development were investi-
gated and compared economically. TEK has continued to update this study
frequently in response to revised project data and guidelines. The pre-
sent development program (Annex 3) is the result of this study process,
although it is expected that it, too, will require modification as dic-
tated by continuing project feasibility studies and changing circumstances.
This program, and where necessary segments of the program, is the result
of least-cost studies using reasonable test rates of discount. When sys-
tem extensions are proposed, it is TEK's practice to first establish that
the extension will earn a reasonable financial return. Most components
of the Project represent the only reasonable technical solution (e.g. -



- 10 -
substation extensions), but where options exist these have been evaluated
by the planning procedures mentioned above so that the Project is in fact
part of the least-cost alternative for meeting the forecast demands.
5.04      The Bank presently is developing a computer model for determining
optimum investment programs in electric power. TEK agreed to assist the
Bank in testing this model on their system and a Bank mission visited Ankara
in December, 1970, for this purpose. The preliminary results of this test
differ with the program proposed by TEK in that early exploitation of
several small hydroelectric sites is indicated in the optimum test program.
TEK is currently reassessing the input data and reviewing its own program
in this light. Also, later (but more) nuclear power is indicated, rather
than the proposed 320 MW plant (para 3.10). The Turkish Atomic Energy
Commission (TAEC) has proposed this plant as the first step in a long-
range nuclear program to be based on local uranium; the selection of a
natural-uranium fuelled plant is a consequence of this criterion. The
Turks acknowledge the economic inferiority of a single such plant and rec-
ognize the pitfalls in such a program, but have engaged consultants for pre-
liminary engineering and site selection. However, the proposed completion
date (1977), and in fact the whole nuclear program, seems open to question
at this time.
Internal Financial Rate of Return
5.05      Because of the diverse nature of the items which make up the
Project, it has not been found possible to calculate the internal finan-
cial rate of return for the Project as a whole. The Project, however, forms
an integral part of an investment program which is the least-cost solution
for meeting the forecast demand (para. 5.03). The internal financial rate
of return on the whole "time slice" of TEK's investment program for 1971-
1974 (covering the construction period of the proposed Project) is expected
to be about 13.4%. Details of the calculation are given in Annex 7.
6. THE BORROWER
6.01      TEK, with headquarters in Ankara, is a state economic enterprise
with an authorized capital of LT 20,000 million (US$1,333 million) consist-
ing of:
-    net capital transfers to TEK from Etibank's Power Group,
DSI, Iller Bank and municipalities;
-    payments from the Turkish general budget;
-    TEK's net profits.
It may borrow on its own name with the Ministry of Finance as guarantor.
Under the TEK law, TEK must earn a return of not less than 8% on net
fixed assets, and fix tariffs accordingly.



- 1 1 -
6.02      State enterprises such as TEK are required to run on commercial
lines alongside private enterprises as part of a mixed economy.  They are
subject to taxation and treated in other respects as though they were pri-
vate joint stock companies, but they operate under the provisions of Law
440 (passed in 1964), the purpose of which is to create more resources for
investments by enabling the State economic enterprises to be run autonomously,
profitably and productively. However, contrary to the intention of the Law,
State economic enterprises are in fact still subject to very close Govern-
mental supervision.
Organization
6.03      TEK's present organization (see chart in Annex 8) retains most of
the features of that of the old Etibank Power Group, and some modification
will be necessary to permit TEK to cope with the widened responsibilities
imposed by the TEK law. TEK has approached Electricite de France (EdF) for
assistance in this regard and tentative agreement has been reached on financing
these additional services from the Bank's technical assistance grant (para.
6.11). The work would also include assistance in planning the village
electrification program, in accordance with the original objectives of the
grant.
Important Issues Facing TEK
6.04      The TEK law leaves a number of points unresolved.  Among these are:
(a)  Planning and construction of hydro projects:
6.05      Article 3 of the TEK law excludes the survey, planning and con-
struction of hydroelectric projects from TEK's activities, although Article
22 requires DSI (which will be responsible for the construction of hydro-
electric projects) to take TEK's demands into account before including any
project in its construction program; it also requires DSI and TEK to col-
laborate continuously in planning, constructing and operating such schemes,
with Government coordinating their activities. Under an Etibank-DSI Pro-
tocol of November 1967, however, Etibank had specific responsibility for
the operation and development-planning of power systems and DSI had to
secure Etibank's agreement before including hydroelectric generation in-
stallations in its investment program. Draft regulations augmenting the
TEK law and defining TEK's responsibilities in these matters were reviewed
during negotiations and are satisfactory. Government will continue to be
responsible for financing of hydroelectric projects.
6.06      The precise role of EIEI, which has been responsible for the
identification and exploitation of hydroelectric resources in the past,
was not clear with the coming into force of the TEK law since TEK and DSI
assumed EIEI's responsibilities for the planning of hydroelectric schemes.
Under a new law, just proposed, EIEI will become an engineering organiza-
tion which will serve Government in the manner of a consulting firm. Its
duties will not overlap those of TEK or DSI.



- 12 -
(b) Village electrification:
6.07      Law 1312 requires TEK to carry out village electrification through
a special organization financed by a separate fund built up from various
sources which include an annual allowance from Government and a levy of 1
krs per kWh on power sales in the country. TEK's expenses in preparing
surveys and projects for village electrification are to be recovered by
appropriating for this purpose 7% of Government's annual contribution to the
fund. In the event of Government providing an inadequate contribution, or
none at all, in any year for any reason (e.g. financial stringency, more-
than-adequate accumulations in the fund, etc.), TEK would have been unable
to recover its costs. During negotiations Government confirmed that TEK
would be provided annually with funds sufficient to meet all expenses in-
curred for administering the village electrification program.
Management and Staff
6.08      TEK has a Board of four Directors comprising the General Manager
(ex-officio Chairman), nominated by the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources and appointed by the Council of Ministers, one of the Assistant
General Managers (also nominated by the Minister of Energy and Natural
Resources) and a member each nominated by the Minister of Energy and Natu-
ral Resources and Minister of Finance and appointed by the Council of Min-
isters. It is managed by the General Manager, assisted by five Assistant
General Managers (appointed by the Council of Ministers on the recommenda-
tions of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources) acting under his
instructions. Mr. Ibrahim Deriner, once Minister of Power and later Direc-
tor of the Turkish Atomic Energy Commission, has been appointed as TEK's
first General Manager. Three of the five Assistant General Managers (in-
cluding the one appointed as a Director of TEK) have been appointed from
the former staff of the Etibank power group. It is as yet too soon to
judge the competence and autonomy of action of this management team.
6.09      On its formation on October 25, 1970, TEK took over the Etibank
Power Group's personnel. At the end of 1970 TEK's total staff consisted of
about 6,800 employees (690 technical, 900 administrative and other monthly-
rated categories and 5,210 daily rated labor). Other agencies whose faci-
lities are to be transferred to TEK will also similarly transfer their staff.
At present certain municipal plants which will be transferred to TEK are
overstaffed. The TEK law provides that, when taking over such facilities,
the staff to be transferred shall be agreed jointly by TEK and the related
agency.  TEK and Government have agreed that, in such instances, only those
employees required for efficient operation of the facility will be trans-
ferred to TEK.
6.10      TEK's personnel policies conform to the general personnel policy
prescribed by the Government for all state economic enterprises. Labor is
organized in trade unions and collective bargaining agreements are in force
for daily-rated labor, valid for two-year periods. Government is consider-
ing revisions to the personnel law which may hamper classification and re-
tention of professional staff, but TEK is aware of the problems, and with



- 13 -
other state economic enterprises, is actively seeking solutions. Within
these limitations, TEK enjoys sufficient autonomy in labor relations and
staffing to permit efficient utilization of manpower and to attract compe-
tent employees.
Technical Assistance - Accounting
6.11      In 1965, the Bank made a technical assistance grant of up to
US$1.95 million to cover the foreign exchange costs of studies and the
implementation of recommendations for the reorganization of the Turkish
power sector. So far about US$1.0 million has been spent or committed from
the grant and additional allocations will be made available as required to
*          assist TEK in the proposed reorganization (para 6.03).  The Bank selected
Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants (SWOCI) to devise a new system of ac-
counts, budgeting and reporting and purchasing and stores procedures and to
prepare engineering standards and training recommendations. Reports on these
subjects were completed in 1969.
6.12      As Phase II of the technical assistance program, Arthur Young and
Company (USA) have been appointed as consultants inter alia to introduce a
comprehensive system of accounts, budgeting and reporting retaining all the
essential elements of the SWOCI system, with suitable changes where neces-
sary, and to assist TEK in implementing it, and also to recommend princi-
ples and procedures for revaluation of assets, within a period of two years
from November 15, 1970. The firm has drawn up a work plan which is accept-
able to TEK and the Bank, and the work is in progress. TEK is now using
the basic elements of the new accounting system.
Audit
6.13      Within four months of the end of each year, each state economic
enterprise must prepare a balance sheet and income statement, and a report
on the year's activities comparing actual results with the budget, and
submit them to the Government's Supreme Board of Control for examination
from the administrative, technical and financial standpoints. The agreement
under Loan 568-TU provides that financial statements audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank should be submitted to the Bank within
seven months after the end of each financial year. During the negotiations
under that loan the Bank agreed that for the time being it would consider
the Government's Supreme Board of Control "independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank". For the present this may continue for several reasons: (i)
the Supreme Board of Control, working directly under the Prime Minister,
enjoys a certain measure of independence; (ii) despite existing internal
checks of a substantial order over cash, stores, etc., TEK proposes to
establish a strong Internal Audit Unit in order to make internal audit more
comprehensive than now; (iii) many additional checks are exercised by the
Treasury and Taxation authorities for their own purposes, and (iv) the
Supreme Board's audit superimposed on these checks ensures reasonable
reliability of the financial statements. This view is also supported by
Arthur Young & Co. However the Bank should reserve the right to arrange
for an independent review of the efficacy of the Supreme Board's audit, in



- 14
order to determine whether a change in the audit arrangements is necessary.
During negotiations TEK and Government agreed to such a review being con-
ducted any time during the period of the loan.
6.14      The period for submission of audited financial statements to the
Bank should be reduced in view of the expected improvements in TEK's ac-
counting work.  During negotiations TEK agreed that its audited financial
statements for FY 1971 and thereafter will be sent to the Bank not later
than five months after the end of each year.
7. FINANCES
7.01      The highlights of TEK's financial position may be summarized as
follows:
(a)  The guidelines in the TEK law for setting the level of
TEK's revenues are imprecise. The law prescribes a return
of 8% on revalued net fixed assets but does not spell out
in detail (i) the method of computing it, (ii) the basis
for revaluing assets as they are taken over and periodically
in future to maintain their value as prices change, and (iii)
how TEK should adjust tariffs from time to time in line with
increases in operating expenses such as wages, fuel costs,
etc. Pending definition of these guidelines, it is proposed
to continue the earnings covenant agreed under Loan 568-TU
with suitable modification (para 7.16).
(b) An immediate and substantial tariff increase is essential for
TEK as Etibank failed to introduce tariff adjustments in line
with increases in costs due to inflation as was agreed under
Loan 568-TU (para 7.09).
(c) Despite the satisfactory level of cash generation that would
be obtained when tariffs are set so as to secure the 8%
return on realistically valued net fixed assets, there would
remain a gap in the financing plan for the 1971-74 capital
expansion program of TEK. This substantial program (LT 5,230
million) consists of thermal generation and transmission
facilities which have a high foreign exchange content. At
the present time, firm arrangements have been made for only
46% of the foreign exchange requirement, including the proposed
Bank loan. TEK expects to obtain the balance through foreign
borrowings at the time the decision has to be made to carry
out the specific future projects in this program (para 7.13).
Asset Revaluation
7.02      TEK's assets which have been built up from 1948 onwards are greatly
undervalued because of substantial increases in Turkish prices in the last
two decades, as reflected in two devaluations of the Turkish lira, one in



- 15 -
1958 to about a third of its exchange value (from LT 2.8 to about LT 9 to
the US dollar) and another in August 1970 by about 40% (from LT 9 to LT 15
to the US dollar). Law 440 provides for revaluation, as does the TEK law
for Etibank and DSI properties transferred to TEK. Arthur Young & Co. is
also considering this issue but pending the consultants' study a basis has
been agreed for computing rate of return, as described below.
7.03      The ad hoc basis of revaluation agreed under Loan 568-TU, which
would increase gross assets as of January 1, 1970 by LT 1120 million and
net book value by LT 610 million, is no longer appropriate since it was
established before the 1970 devaluation and did not cover the DSI assets.
In 1966 the Coimmission for Reorganization of State Economic Enterprises
*          recommended certain coefficients for revaluation of assets of the period
1938 through 1966 based on a study of price changes over the period 1938-
1965. TEK has updated these coefficients by reference to the wholesale
price indices for the period 1966-1970 in order to take account of price
changes since 1966 and the recent devaluation. These coefficients, adjusted
for certain price changes not considered by the Commission, (given in Annex
9) have been used for preparing the forecasts in this report. Annex 10
shows the application of these coefficients to the ex-Etibank assets. It
will be seen from Annex 11 that as of January 1970 the original cost of TEK's
assets increases by LT 2,397 million and the net book value of LT 1,464 mil-
lion. The expenditure through 1969 on DSI plant brought into service after
January 1, 1970 has also been revalued to the 1970 level of prices; the
related revaluation surplus of LT 554 million is reflected in the state-
ments as and when the plant is brought into service. Thus the total effect
of revaluation is to increase the asset base by LT 2,018 million. Agree-
ment has been reached with TEK and the Government on this method for re-
valuing assets, and the results of this method being used for determining
performance under the earnings covenant. If Arthur Young & Co advises any
changes in the above method, it would be suitably modified in agreement with
the Bank.  TEK will have to revise its books to incorporate the agreed changes
in asset values. It will also have to keep asset values current to reflect
future price level changes, using coefficients or any other method agreed
by Government and TEK in consultation with the Bank. During negotiations
confirmation of this was obtained.
Present Financial Condition and Past Earnings
7.04      Annex 12 contains balance sheets of the Etibank Power Group for
the years ended December 31, 1968-69. The debt equity ratio of 78/22 for
1968 and 77/23 for 1969 shows long-term debt to have been the dominant source
of finance. The loans at 1969-end were obtained from the State Investment
Bank (40%). foreign sources (24%), and credits from Etibank's other opera-
tions.
7.05      Etibank has had a poor record of collection of its receivables
partly because of consistent default on the part of Istanbul and Izmir
municipalities dating from 1963. Ultimately the Government assumed their
liability together with interest to be discharged over an extended period
(LT 194 million at 1967-end and estimated at LT 170 million at 1970-end).



- 16 -
Other consumers have also been slow in paying their bills, in spite of a
15% discount for payment within one month and a penalty of 1% per month
for payments thereafter. The slow pace of collection is apparent from the
1969-end receivables of LT 214 million (LT 27 million over one year old)
representing 29% of annual revenues. Receivables are not analyzed accord-
ing to age. Disconnection and legal actions are rare. Of late, however,
there has been some improvement in collections and TEK is introducing de-
centralized billing and other measures to improve the pace of collection
of receivables.
7.06      Annex 13 contains income statements of Etibank Power Group for
the years 1968-69. The rate of return (net operating income before in-
terest to average net fixed assets in service) of 14.2% in 1968 and 13.8%
in 1969 has been computed without adjusting assets values to reflect current
costs.  If computed on a pro-forma basis as if Etibank owned the Govermnent
hydroelectric projects and with asset values adjusted as agreed under Loan
568-TU, the rate of return would have been only 6.6% in 1968 and 6.7% in
1969.
Tariffs
7.07      State economic enterprises like TEK are generally free to deter-
mine the prices of their goods and services except that by Decree No. 6/0954
of October 14, 1967, prices of basic goods and services such as electrical
power, coal, cement, steel, rail transport, etc. are subject to the approval
of the Council of Ministers. Any loss to the enterprise resulting from a
price change ordered by the Council must be subsidized by the Government.
M;ost of TEK's sales are under a uniform bulk sales contract with a two-part
tariff and having a fuel-adjustment clause whereby increases in fuel costs
could automatically be recovered from consumers from month to month without
a general revision of tariffs. During negotiations, TEK agreed to ienforce
this provision in their contracts. In addition, Government confirmed the
provision of the 1967 decree requiring Government to take action on requests
for tariff changes within one month.
7.08      TEK's present tariffs, averaging 15.26 krs (US4 1.0) per kWh,
have been in force from March 1, 1967, when the previous tariff was raised
by about 45%. Subsequent increases in operating costs, notably in wages
and fuel-oil costs, were not passed on to consumers.
Performance Under Loan 568-TU
7.09      The covenant under Loan 568-TU requires a minimum rate of return
of 8% from 1970 onwards, any shortfall in a year being made up in the next
year, except that in the year of commissioning of the Keban pro4ect and in
the following two years the minimum rate of return may be 7%. The appraisal
of Loan 568-TU assumed a 10% tariff increase early in 1970 which would have
raised earnings to a satisfactory level, but this was not effected. The
devaluation of August 1970 resulting in a 45% increase in fuel oil c3Bts
and higher construction expenditures and depreciation charges aggravated
the position especially because of Government's reluctance to permit



- 17 -
tariff increases in the wake of devaluation, causing the return for 1970 to
drop to 5.4% (on the basis agreed under Loan 568-TU) versus the requisite
8%. Without devaluation it would have been 7.1%. TEK has now not only to
earn the requisite 8% return for 1971 but also to make up the 1970 shortfall,
as required under Loan 568-TU. Meanwhile an increase in TEK's wage bill
from January 1971 with the promulgation of a new personnel law (e.g. a 40%
increase to monthly-rated staff), further fuel oil price increase (following
rise in international prices) and inadequate rainfall reducing hydro genera-
tion have pushed up expenses still further. A tariff increase equivalent
to 60% effective June 1, 1971 is imperative for placing TEK's finances on
a satisfactory footing but recent political problems have contributed to a
postponement of a decision on this. Implementation of the increase would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Financing Plan
7.10      A forecast of the sources and applications of funds of TEK for
the years 1970 through 1977 is given as Annex 14. A condensed version for
the period 1971-74 is given below:
1971-74
Amount         % of Capital
(millions of LT)   Expenditure
Capital Expenditure Requirements
TEK Transmission Project                   1,059               20
Other TEK Projects                         4,171               80
5,230              100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash  Generation                  5,149
Less:  Debt Service                     (1,921)
3,228               62
Less:  Working Capital Increase           (619)             (12)
Profit Transferred to
Government (para. 7.12)         (1,203)             (23)
Net Internal Cash Generation   1,406                  27
Borrowings:  Local Borrowings                942               18
Proposed Bank Loan             360                7
Other Foreign Loans          2,192               42
Total Borrowings           3,494               67
Other Sources, Net of Other
Requirements                               330                6
5,230              100



- 18 -
7.11      The proposed Bank loan of $24 million, which has been assumed to
bear interest at 7.25% and have a term of 25 years, including four years'
grace, will meet about 7% of the total 1971-74 construction requirements.
Other foreign credits are expected to meet about 42% of that total. Firm
arrangements have been made for only about 46% of the total foreign exchange
requirement (LT 1185 million out of LT 2552 million) including the proposed
loan.
7.12      In the discussions leading to the establishment of TEK, it was
envisaged that TEK would assume all liabilities associated with the assets
transferred from DSI to help insure realism and objectivity in power sector
planning. However the TEK law, as finally enacted, provides for transfer of
DSI's hydroelectric installations free of debt, treating the cost of instal-
lations as part of TEK's equity capital.  In the case of Etibank's assets,
the law provides for transfer of liabilities along with the assets. The
law also requires TEK to transfer to Government the balance of TEK's annual
profits after appropriating roughly 15% to reserves. This has a two-fold
effect. On the one hand, it substantially reduces TEK's debt service lia-
bility and thereby raises its net cash generation after debt service to a
high level (62% of capital program in 1971-1974). On the other hand, it
siphons off to Government about one-third of this amount making it neces-
sary for TEK to borrow more locally in the early years of the forecast
period, and to carry the burden of local loans longer than if it had full
use of its surplus funds. This arrangement somewhat blurs the picture of
TEK's cash generation in the context of its debt service and the capital
expansion requirements of the sector, and does not fully meet the objec-
tive the Bank had in mind. However, coupled with adherence to the earnings
guidelines, the arrangement provides a satisfactory degree of financial
discipline in TEK's operations.
7.13      TEK's net cash generation available for investment amounts to
27% of capital expenditure, which is adequate. The missing elements in
the financing plan consist entirely of foreign exchange credits required
for new projects (TEK assumes that all foreign exchange required for the
program will be borrowed through aid arrangements). If these credits are
not forthcoming TEK must look to Government for foreign exchange, or cur-
tail the program. This would not affect TEK's ability to carry out the
Project.
Financial Forecasts
Future Earnings
7.14      Estimated income statements of TEK for 1970-1977 are given in
Annex 13.  The statement for 1970 has been prepared as if TEK came into
being on January 1, 1970 (and not as actually on October 25, 1970) and
took over DSI assets on that date, because the operations of the Etibank
Power Group on a proforma basis as if it owned DSI assets would closely
approximate those of TEK. The main assumptions underlying the income



- 19 -
statements are given in Annex 15. A five-fold increase in revenues from
LT 888 million in 1970 to LT 4417 million in 1977 is estimated without a
parallel increase in operating expenses, resulting in an almost steady
decrease in operating ratio from 84% in 1970 to 64% in 1977. The rate of
return is estimated to be 3.40% in 1970 on an asset base revalued as now
estimated (5.4% on the basis agreed under Loan 568-TU), and rises to 8.2%
in 1971 (assuming a 48% tariff increase from April 1, 1971) and 10.2% in
1972. It drops to 9.6% in 1973 and 8.9% in 1974 with the commissioning of
the Cokcekaya (1973) and Keban (1974) projects and the resultant increase
in asset base and continues thereafter at well over the statutory 8%.
7.15      Increases in wages and fuel costs could raise operating costs
and reduce operating income substantially.  A wage increase of 40% to
monthly-rated personnel effective from January 1971 is included in the
operating costs, similar wage increases in future cannot be ruled out
especially with the present collective bargaining agreements for daily-
rated labor, valid for two-year periods. Fuels are costed at current
prices in this report in view of the difficulty of forecasting price in-
creases. A substantial increase in coal prices is, however, likely in 1971
since the state economic enterprise mining coal and lignite has been operat-
ing at a deficit for some time. Similarly, lignite prices may not remain
stationary with the all-round rise in prices. Such increase in costs will
be taken care of through tariff adjustments.
Proposed Rate of Return Covenant
7.16      The regulations defining the method of calculating the 8% return
on revalued net fixed assets required by the TEK law are being drawn up. To
the extent that these regulations are acceptable to the Bank, the procedure
prescribed in Loan 568-TU for measuring rate of return would be modified.
The rate-of-return covenant of Loan 568-TU may be extended to the proposed
loan subject to three further changes: (i) the shortfall of 1970 (2.6% on
the 1970 asset base) may be made up during the period from 1971 through
1974 instead of in 1971 as required under the covenant and (ii) any future
shortfall in any year may be made up within the next two years - these two
provisions have been added to allow adequate time to identify, request and
implement tariff changes - (iii) since the reason for accepting the lower
return of 7% in the year of commissioning Keban and the two following years
i.e. in 1974-76 no longer exists - Keban's capacity is absorbed almost im-
mediately contrary to earlier expectations - the minimum return may be a
uniform 8% which will also satisfy the requirements of the TEK law.  During
negotiations agreement was reached on this.
7.17      In the forecast income statements depreciation is provided at
rates roughly corresponding to those actually charged in the 1969 accounts
which are those permitted for tax purpose, but are substantially higher
than those agreed to by the Bank as minimum rates under Loan 568-TU. The
Bank should have no objection to TEK's adopting either of these rates, or
any reasonable alternatives having regard to the useful lives of the assets,
the tax law and other relevant factors. During negotiations it was agreed
that TEK would continue to use the rates permitted for tax purposes until
Arthur Young's recommendations on depreciation are received and reviewed
in consultation with the Bank.



- 20 -
Future Financial Position
7.18      Estimated balance sheets of TEK as of the end of 1970-1977 are
given in Annex 12. As in the case of income statements, the balance sheet
as of the end of 1970 has been drawn up as if TEK's operations commenced on
January 1, 1970 instead of on October 25, 1970. Existing DSI power plants
are assumed to have been transferred to TEK on January 1, 1970 and revalued
to reflect current values. Further additions to plant are shown as and
when they are brought into service. Plant in service would thus increase
from LT 6,807 million in 1970 to LT 27,457 million in 1977, and the equity
capital from LT 1,745 million to LT 11,406 million in the same period.
Because of this large increase in equity capital, mainly by transfer of
DSI assets, the 1970 position of parity of debt and equity capital changes
sharply in 1977 to one of predominance of equity in relation to debt
(debt/equity ratio of 31/69).  The low current ratio (never more than 0.71)
is acceptable in view of TEK's retention of large surpluses each year for
a few months until payment to Government becomes due next year (para 7.12).
7.19      The debt limitation convenant under Loan 568-TU stipulates the
Bank's prior concurrence for fresh borrowing of long-term debt effective
from January 1, 1973, unless the net revenues of the Etibank Power Group
before depreciation for the fiscal year next preceding such borrowing or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such borrowing, shall be
at least 1.5 times the maximum debt including the debt to be incurred.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on extending this covenant
to TEK and the proposed loan.
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a) The regulations covering TEK and DSI coordination in planning
and constructing hydro plants were reviewed and found satis-
factory (para 6.05), and the status of EIEI was clarified
(para 6.06).
(b) TEK would apply the fuel-cost adjustment clause in its con-
tracts and Government confirmed the decree provision providing
for action on tariff changes within one month of requesting
such changes (para 7.07).
(c) With some modifications, the rate-of-return covenant of Loan
568-TU requiring an 8% return on net fixed assets was extended
to TEK (para 7.16).



- 21 -
8.02      A tariff increase would be placed into effect as a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (para. 7.09).
8.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$24 million, for a term of 25 years including a 4-year grace period.
May 28, 1971






TURKEY
ANNEX 1
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AIXCEIITY - (TEK)
Principal Generating Stations in Service and Under Construction
on TEK Interconnected System
at the end of 1970
A.  Existing Plant owned by Etibank's (TEK's) Consusers
Station                                               INW                Type
Silhatar (Istanbul)                                                        120               Thermal
Eshot (Izmir)                                                               40
E?, (Ankara)                                                                27
Eregli (Steel)                                                              20
Karabuk (Steel)                                                             21
Goska - Kerkopru                                                            11                Hydro
SEKA (Izmit paper mill)                                                     11               Thermal
Sizir                                                                        7                Hydro
Karakoy (Iller Bank)                                                         4
Bursa                                                                        6              Thermal
Denizli                                                                     11                4ydrc
"unyan                                                                       1
Almus                                                                       27
Durucasu                                                                     1
Kovada I                                                                     o
Kepez                                                                       27
Dinar                                                                        1
Seyhan (Cuikurova Co.)                                                      54
;Mersin (Cukurova Co.)                                                     100              Thermal
lag Cag                                                                     15               Hydro
Hazar                                                                       20                  "
liscellaneous Diesel                                                        38              Thermal
liosoellaneous Hydro                                                        6o                Sydre
Total A;             630    (247 Hydro)
S.  Exist-ng Plart oeaTed sy Etibank (THE) or leased from DSI
Station                                                fid               Type
SariYar                                                                    160                 Hyydr
Pirfanli (DST)                                                              96 
Catalagi (coal f- red)                                                     120                Thermal
Tanctilek (lignite fired)                                                  124
Ambarli (oil fired) sets 1,2,3,5.                                          485
Soma (lignite fired)                                                        44
Kemer (SDST)                                                                48                Hydro
Demikopru (DSI)                                                             69
Kesikoppru (DSI)                                                            76
Dogankent (1S!)                                                             20
rotal B;           1,242    (4b9 Hydro)
C.  Additions to the System Capacity Th.ough Conrection of the Existing Systems or by Completion of New Plants
Same                                                 MW                 Type
1971            Anbarli Set 4                                              150               Thermal
Govada II                                                   51                Eydro
6 Gas Turbi nes                                           11                 Thermal
1972            Kadincik I (Sukurova)                                       70                 Hydro
Tortim !I                                                  13 S
Hopa (oil fired)                                            50               Thermal
Seyitomer (linnite fired) Sets 1,2                        300
batmaan                                                      5                Hydro
1973            Cildi-                                                      15
.okcekaya                                                 300
Seyitomer, Set 3                                           150               Thermal
Gas Turbines                                               110
Keban, set 1                                              150                 Kydro
1974            Keban sets 2,3,4                                           450
Kadircik IS (lukurova)                                      50
1975            Xeban, sets 5,o                                            300
Thermal Tinit                                             150                 Thermal
1976            Elbistan  (lignate fired)                                  600
1977            Ayvacik                                                    250                   Hydro
taclear Plant                                             320                  Thermal
Retirement of obsolete units                              (150)
Total C:           3,444    (1,654 Hydro)
By 1977, total plant installed will be:
Hydro                                                   2,370
Thermal                                                  2,9946
Total (interconnected)              5,316
.-,h.hs                        50
Grand Total (WIhole Turkey)         5,366
MarcL 23, 1971






TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM CAPABILITY AND MAXIMUM DEMAND
7,000  -                                              D      C
6,000  -
5,000                                                                                                                                       4946_________
8000                                                                 Z              3080~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~Z
3,500
500                                                     Z m i
900
INSTALLED CAPACITY
700                                    -        ----DECEMBER CAPACITY
--     FIRMO CAPACITY (I-.IoII I.- 15% R-.e)
500 S.,-O8Ij 51
1969             1970             1971             1972              1973            1974              1975             1976             1977              1978             1979              1980             1981           Z
YEARS R8
IBRD-537710R ,..






TURKEY                                        ANNEX 3
TURKISE ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY - (TEK)
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 1971-1977
Total Cost            Foreign Expenditures
LT             US$             LT          U05
--------------------in Million-------------------
A) WORK UNDERTAKEN BY ETIBANK
(i)   Generating Projects Already Started
Ambarli, 300 MW Steam, Units  and 5 (final cost 640)                                      70            4.7             56            3.7
Seyitomer, 300 14W Steam, Units 1 and 2 (final cost 894)                                411           27.4             255           17.0
Hopa, 5C Ml Steam (final cost 151)                                                        38            2.5             14            1.0
Subtotal:                  519                            325           21.7
(ii)  New Generating Projects
Gas Turbine, 110 MW 6 Units (final cost 214)                                            196            13.0            151           10.0
Seyitomer, 150 MX, Unit 3 (final cost 435)                                              398           26.6             219           14.6
Gas Tarbine, 110 MW, 6 Units                                                            214           14.3             166           11.1
Elbistan, 600 MW Steam (Lignite)                                                      1,916          127.7           1,286           85.5
New Thermal Unit, 150 MW                                                                 340           22.7            250           16.7
Nuclear Plant, 320 MW                                                                 1,911           127.4          1,420           95.0
Subtotal:                4,975          331.7         -3232.9
(iii) 380 KI' Transmission Lines and Substations
Keban Line and Substations (final cost 452)                                             202            13.5            112            7.5
Other Projects in progress (final cost 606)                                             426            28.4            241           16.0
New Projects (final cost 933)                                                           897            59.8            591           39.4
Subtotal:                1,525          101.7             9i            7i
(iv)  154 KV (and above) Transmission Lines and Substations
Work in progress (final cost 3,906)                                                   2,520          168.0           1,307           87.1
New 154 KV Projects (final cost 234)                                                    214            14.3             82            5.5
Others                                                                                  540            36.0            380           25.3
Subto-al:                3,27           213            1,769           117.9
Total Work Undertaken by Etibank:                                                    10,293          686.3           6,530          435.4
B) WORK UNDERTAKEN BY DSI
(i)   Generating Projects Already Started
Keban, 9W  MW, Hydro (final cost 6,073)                                               2,651          176.7           1,226           81.7
Gokcekaya, 300 MW, Hydro (final cost 1,825)                                             753            50.2            248           16.5
Cildir, 15 MW, Hydro (final cost -28)                                                     27            1.8
Kovada II, 48 MW, Hydro (final cost 198)                                                 14             0.9
Dogankent, 20 MW, Hydro (final cost 261)                                                  16            1.1
Subtotal:                               230.7,7-
.       (ii)  New Generating Projects
Ayvacik, 250 MW, Tlydro (final cost 1,233)                                            1,207            80.5            833           55.5
Oymapinar, 540 MW, Eydro                                                              1,704          113.6             798           53.2
Oevizlik, 75 MW, Eydro  l/
Balator, 46 MW, Mydro                                                                   295            19.7             97            6.5
Karakaya, 1,500 MW, Ilydro (final cost 4,362)                                         2,145           143.0          1,267           84.5
Subtotal:                5,351          356            2,995           199.7
"otal Work Undertaken by DSI:                                                         8,812           587.5          4,469          297.9
GRANID TOTAL OF PROGRAM:                                     19,105        10,999                           733.3
1/ Project under study, no figure available since feasibility study is not completed.
March 24, 1971



TURKEY
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY - (TEK)
ESTIMATED COST OF THE BANK PROJECT
in LT                           in US$         of Total
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total   E_penditures
-------------------million-------___________
380 KV Substations and Series Capacitors                34.4    38.5   72.9        2.3      2.6     4.9         6.9
Istanbul Area (154 KV Underground Cables,
Distribution Capacitors, New 30 KV Feeders)            9.7    10.7   20.4        0.7      0.7     1.4         1.9
2,779 km  15h KV Transmission Linezs                  267.5   156.2  423.7        17.8    10.4    28.2         h0.0
154 KV' Substations and Transformer                    106.0    81.7  187.7        7.1      5.4    12.5        17.7
30 KV System = 977 Ian Lines - Substations,
Transformers and Miscellaneous                       79.3    52.3  131.6        5.3      3.5     8.8        12.4
Improvement of Operations and Construction
Department - Staff Training                         32.7    32.1   64.8         2.2      2.1     4.3         6.1
Contingencies  !                                        57.4    17.0   74.4        3.8      1.2     5.0         7.1
Interest During Construction                            53.0    30.0   83.0        3.5      2.0     5.5         7.9
Total                  640.0   418.5 1,058.5      42.7    27.9    70.6        100.0
Part of Foreign Costs of the Project to be
Financed from other Foreign Credits                           58.4                        3.9
RFYPirder to be Financed from IBRD Loan                        360.1                       2a.0
i    Only five percent contingencies has been allowed on foreign currency and ten percent on local currency             t
requirements.
March 23, 1971



TURKEY
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements on the Bank Loan
----------------------Million LT----------------------   -----------------------Million us$------------------_
1971          1972           1973          1974             1971           1972          1973           1974
First Quarter
Disbursements                                      16.5           15.0          30.5              -              1.1            1.0           2.0
Undisbursed part of the loan at
the end of the quarter                                 289.5          163.5           32.5           24.o            19.3          10.9            2.2
Second Quarter
Disbursement                          _            24.0           30.0          15.5              -              1.6            2.0           1.0
Undisbursed part of the loan at
the end of the quarter                   360           265.5          133.5           17.0           24.o            17.7           8.9            1.2
Third Quarter
Disbursement                         20.0           43.5          43.5           10.0             1.4            2.9            2.9           0.7
Undisbursed part of the loan at
the end of the quarter                    340            222.0          90.0           7.0           22.6            14.8           6.o             0.5
Fourth Quarter
Disbursements                        34.o           43.5          27.0            7.0             2.2            2.9            1.8           0.5
Undisbursed part of the loan at
the end of the quarter                    306            178.5          63.0           -              20.4            11.9           4.2
Yearly Total
Disbursements                        54.o          127.5         115.5           63.0             3.6            8.5            7.7           4.2
Undisbursed part of the loan at
the end of the year                        306           178.5          63.0           -               20.4           11.9           4.2
March 23, 1971






*                                                                      *                                ANNEX 6
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)                                                          Page lof 2 pages
GROWTH OF ELECTRICITY SALES AND
CONSUMPTION IN TURKEY
PAST                                                       F'ORECAST
(TOTAL CONSUMPl ION IN TURKEY)                                         (TEK SALES ONLY)
l   l   l   l   l I                            CONNECTION OF ISOLATED
SYSTEMS                                       TOTAL TEK
.000           - ~~~~~~20,0O0T
SALES AND CONSUMPTION                           0,00
IN TURKEY                                                                                       INDUSTRY   -  5,000
10,000 _      ) (ALL SYSTEMS)
a0c,                           SALES FROM TURKISH                                                                                                  S _o_8
7000                   .     ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)                                                                                            000
1000                                                                                       /                                                       000
DOMESTIC
500000000,                                                                                                                             AND      -  5000
I  oY'0                                             ,.     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMERCIAL
4OO0                                               I                                1UT    NEW ALUMINUM
CO            00'          ~~~~~~~~~~~~FACTORY                                   -  40000
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FROM PUBLIC UTILITIES)                                           IRRIGATION
2000                                                                                                                                               20
1500                                DOMESTIC     -1                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1500
AND COMMERCIAL
100000
900                        .00"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
GOVERNMENT
700                                      'o                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFFICES
0                   F~~~)ROM PRIVATE PLANTS)                                    -- LIGHTING          500
200                                                                  00
1004 1955 1956 1957 19S8 19059 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1900 1967 l96S 1969 1970 1971 1972 10973 1074 1975 1976 1977 1978 1970 l9RD
lEFT - 537812R)






ANNEK 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
TURKEY
TEK POWER PROJECT
Sales from Interconnected System
Historical and Forecast
Annual
Increase in Sales
Year                        GWh
*           1965                         2,657
1966                         2,983                           12
1967                        3,619                            21
1968                        4,330                            20
1969                        4,918                            14
1970                         5,820                           18
1971                        7,508                            29
1972                         9,709                           29
1973                       12,310                            27
1974                       14,741                            20
1975                        16,392                           11
1976                       17,595                             7
1977                       19,188                             9
March 24, 1971






ANNEX 7
TURKET
TURKISH ELECTRICI'I'Y AUTHORITY (TEE)
TRANSMISSION IROJECT
Calculation of Internal Financial Rate of Return
1971    1972    1973    1974
Investments:
Generation   Increase in installed capacity   -   Thermal (MW)                         260      350     260      -
-   Hydro (MW)                          51      18     465      450
Costs (nat of duties and taxes) - Thermal: average cost during the period,
2.6 mT/Mu                                  676     910     676      _
- Hydros   cost of each plant (and related
transmission)                              352     124   3,208   3,105
Transmission (Bank Project + Others)                                                 1,479     871      455     480
Total Tnvestment Cost:                                                               2,507   1,905   4,339   3,585
Sales and Revenues:
Increase in consumntion related to investments (Oll)                1,396   3,889   6,830   8,921
Average revenue (LT/kWh)                                           0.2072  0.2175  0.2084  0.2116
Total revienne   (millions LT)                                        289      846   1,423- i,888-
Thtal ?rDducti.c nTh) of new plant                                            1,556   4,343   7,593  10,000
Production of cil-fired plants                                          1,050   1,400   1,400   1,360
2rcsctior of gof s turbines                                                286     553   1,003      -
--,da-.tion  T'   e-iLed plants                                        2- 2,100   3.150   3,iS5
-; ic t ojn  ;:-c ! t !>] an                                            220      290   2 01I0,   S
Cc ;t - r-A. of Wu,-c6 (n!iilions LT)
- oil (0.046 LT/kKh)                                                      48.3      64.4    64.4    62.5
- gas turbine (0.055 LI/kwh)                                              15.7      30.4    55.1      -
- lignite (0.041 LT/kwh)                                                     -      86.2   129.5   129.5
Total (millions LT)                                                     64.0    181.0   249.0   192.0
1/
Or.lhr onerating Ecpenses - maintenance, wages and salaries7
*  iscellaneous (millions LT)                            31.0    108.0   w46.0   177.0
Total operating expenses (rillions LT)                                               95      289      395     369
Years    Investment   Pael   Other         Total     Total       Net       Discounted at 13%    Discounted at 11j
,-ost         Epoenses   Fxpaenses   Revenues Revenues    Costs        Benefits   CostS      Benefits
971       2,507        64      3e           9        2&9        194        2,219        172      2,199        170
1972       1,905       181     108          289       846        557        1,491        436      1,466        429
1973       4,339       249     146          395     1,423      1,028        3,007        712      2,928        694
1974       3,585       192     177          369     1,888      1,519        2,199        932      2,122        899
'975-
2005        _         192     177          369     1,888      1,519          -        6,867        -        6,211
7J971      971 19     OJI15       J403
Internal Rate of Re turn
* r/ ircre_se in total zstirn-tuea
expenses during period, ex                                                   9,119-8,916
cluding depreciation and taxes, and fol expl8s               13% + _
(9,119-8,916)+(8,715-8,403)
J13% + 203    -  13% + 0.39
515
- 13.4%
Fehruarv 10. 1971



TURKEY
TORKIY!E ELEKTRIK KIRTIJMC
(TURKISH EECTRICTTY AUTHORITY)
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Office of the Board
Office of General Manager                                                GENERAL MANAGER-
Defense Secretariat
Technical Advisers       Manpower Plan          Purchasing &            Industrial Survey &                    Investigation          Personnel Dept.          Legal Dept.          Inter-office and Public
Council             & Welfare Dept.       Adjudication            Participations Dept.                       Council                                                               Relations Dept.
Comsittee
2/                                                  2/                                                                                                                                        /
ASSISTANT CENERAL MANAGER                           ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER-                       ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                   ASSISTANT GENERAL MANACER                   ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER-
PTSANTNR G                                   DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION                          VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION                             OPERATIONS                          ADMINISTRATTON & FINANCE
Plansing & Coordination                        -  Networks Design Division                      -Program, Survey &                               Transmission Networks                    -Accounting & Finance
h ivision                                                                                    Design Division                                 Operation Divtsion                             Division
Nuclear Energy Division                        -Network Constroction                             &Conslction                                     Thermal Power Plants                     -- Commercial Division
Division                                 Operations Division                            Operation Division
P?ower Plants Design &                           Finance, Procurement                         - Hydraulic Power Plants                    -Administration
Construction Division                         & Administration Division                      Operations Division                           Division
_ Civil Engineering Division                                                                     Distributions etworks
Training Dept.       -      Load Dispatching and
Sales Divisios
1' Board Member
T1 Vacant at time of Appraisal
March 25, 1971
.~~~~



ANNEX 9
TURKEY
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK)
Indices for Revaluation
of Assets Taking into Account Yearly Changes
in Price Levels since 1951
Yearly
Yearly                      Coefficient to
General Index     Coefficient                   Revalue Assets to
used as Basis     to Revalue                    1970 Price Level
for Revaluation   Assets to                                Column
of Assets         1965 Price    Government               (3) times
Suggested by      Level Based   Wholesale    Based on   1965 co-
Reorganizatiop    on Indices    Price        Column     efficient in
Year   Commission ly     of Column 2   Index 2/        L4)      column (5)
(1)          (2)             (3)           (4)         (5)           (6)
1970                                      150.0       1.00
1969                                      136.9        1.10
1968                                      129.1        1.16
1967                                      123.4       1.22
1966                                      114.7       1.31
1965       1326.0                         109.4       1.37
1964       1298.0            1.02                                   1.40
1963       1308.9            1.01                                   1.38
1962       1259.2            1.05                                   1.44
1961       1207.5            1.10                                   1.51
1960       1186.9            1.12                                   1.53
195       1149.1            1.15                                   1.58
1958        947.5            1.40                                   1.92
1957        808.0            1.64                                   2.25
1956        683.5            1.94                                   2.66
1955        586.4            2.26                                   3.10
1954        531.0            2.50                                   3.43
1953        476.8            2.78                                   3.81
1952        469.5            2.82                                   3.86
1951        468.7            2.83                                   3.88
1/  1938 = 100
2/   1963 = 100
March 23, 1971



ANNEX 10
I ~   ~~~~  I
4 t B              =         r I A D g D    4
? O D D UE <\I s H l  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -
H   0E  H  A O > O _ I _~~~~~~S
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                           .   .   . : 1 .   .   .   .   .   . l .  1            
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   E        



TURKEY
Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK)
Revaluation of Etibank and DSI Assets as of January 1, 1970
(Millions of LT)
HISTORICAL                             REVALUED                          INCREASE ON REVALUATION
Original   Accumulated    Net book  Original   Accumulated    Net book    Original  Accumulated    Net book
Assets of       cost      depreciation      value      cost     depreciation    value          cost    depreciation       value
Etibank        2,208          543          1,665      3,4.39       1,090          2,349       1,231         547            684
DSI            1,037          289            748       2,203          675          1,528      1,166         386            780
Total          3,2245         832          2,413       ,2          1,765          3877        2,397         933          1464
March 24, 1971



ANNEX 12
TURKEY
ETIBANK POWER GROUP UNTIL OCTOBER 25, 1970 AND TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (TEK) THEREAFTER
BALANCE SHEETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1968 - 1977
(Millions of LT)
---Actual- ------------------------_-------Estimated-------------------------------
1968     1969       1970      1971      1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       3977
ASSETS
Plant in Service                                    2,010    2,208       6,807    8,174    10,784    13,801    20,728    21,539    23,473    27,457
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                        456       543      2,022    2,335      3,045      3 567      4 262      5 006      5 814      6,748
Net Plant in Service              1,       5             776 4,785  5,834               7,739    10,23                     533 17,659   20,709
Work in Progress                                      531    1,145       1933    1,931        1.170     1,238      2,289      3,312      2,549        94'8
Other Long-Term Assets
Investments                                       87       92         93       108        124        149        171        208        254        303
Extended Term Account Receivables                187       207       170       157        144        128        114         98         90         81
Total Other Long-Term Assets                 274       299        263       265        268        277        285        306       344        384
Current Assets
Cash                                               3         5          7      166        383        283        498        520        350        582
Net Receivables                                  195      214        150       277        378        460        559        623        677        741
Materials and Supplies                            56        66         70       75         80         88         90         92         99        107
Prepayments                                        2         2          2        2          3          3          3          41         4          4
Total Current Assets                         256       287        229       520        844        834      1,150      1,239     1,130      1,43411
Deferred Debits                                        11         9         12        17         23         26         30         33         39        43
Total Assets                               2,676    3,405       7,222    8,572    10,044    12,609    20,220    21,4           21,721    23,518
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital, Reserves and Surplus
Capital                                          250       253     1,745    1,931       2,120      4,082      9,996    10,173    10,173    11,406
Reserves                                         247       397       4141/    4562/       5232!      6012/      7202/      8672/   1,0272/   1,1992/
Capital Surplus from Revaluation                 -         -       1,091-   1,120-    1,120-    1,219-    1,602-    1,602-    1,6o2_    1,60o4_
Total Capital Reserves & Surplus              497      650      3,250    3,507         7        5,902    12,318    12,802
Long-Term Debt
Loans to Power Group from Rest of Etibank    955           790       -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
State Investment 3ank Loans                      567      897      1,645        ,916    2,279      2,193      1,958      1,605      1,028        788
Foreign Credits                                  287       526     1 543-   2 107       2,630      2,926      3 882      4 727      5 160      5 565
Total Long-Term Debt                     1,709    2,213       3,         ,2         ,        5,119      5,840      6                    6,
Less: Debt Due Within One Year                    40        40       143       199        214        257        343        381        335        260
Net Long-Tenm  Debt                      1,789    2,173       3,045    3,824       4         4          5,497      5,951      5,853      6,093
Current Liabilities and Provisions
Accounts Payable                                 166       153        314      222        200        196        135        138        200        190
Taxes Accrued                                     23      127        104       197        306        359        540        663        720        782
Interest Accrued                                   3        34        44        59         69         79         89         99        104        109
Long-Term Debt Due Within One Year               41        40        143       199        214        257        343        381        335        260
Other Current and Accrued Liabilities            -           1          1        1          1          1          1          1          1          1
Provision for Transfer of Surplus to
Government                                    _        -           99       248        395        461        705        869        941     1,015
Total Current Liabilities and
Provisions                               232       355        705       926     1,185      1,353      1,813      2,151      2,301      2,357
Customer Deposits                                      49        59         75       139        196        253        303        340        363        399
Customer Advances for Construction                      7        12         13        15         16         16         18         20         22         23
Customer Contributions for Extensions                  75        92         98       115        125        130        147        163        187        199
Self-Insurance Reserve                                 19        23         30       41          58         87        118       150        187        232
Deferred Credits                                       28        41          6         6          6          6          6          6          6          6
Total Capital & Liabilities              2,676    3,45       7,222    8,572    10,014    12,609    2             21,123    21,721    ______
~~    ~             ~               ~        ____222_21_72                               23,518
Ratios
Debt'Eauity Ratio                              78'22    77'23      50/50    53/47       57'43      46/54      32/68      33/67      33/67      31/69
Current Ratio                                   1.10     0.81       0.32      0.56       0.71       0.62       0.63       0.58       0.49       0.61
Note  Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1970 drawn up as if TEK commenced operations on
January 1, 1970 and took over DSI assets on that date
1 ' Computed as follows
Increase in net book value of assets in use as of December 31, 1969 as a result of
revaluation.                                                                              1, 464 million
(Less) Increase in foreign debt through devaluation                                          (414)
Sub-total                                                                             1,050
Add Increase in value of DST plant brought into service in 1970 as a result of
revaluation                                                                                  41
Total Revaluation Surplus as of December 31, 1970                                      1,091
2' Includes further revaluation surplus relating to expenditure through 1969 on DSI plant brouht into use from 1971 through 1977.
3' Includes increase of LT 414 million in foreign debt through devaluation.
March 23, 1971



TURKEY
Etibhnk Power Group until October 25, 1970 and Turkish Electricity Authority (TEX) Thereafter
Incone Statemonte for the Year ended De-enber 31, 196c  - 1977
TMillions of LT)
Ao actually conetitutod                                                          Estinated
]968          1969           1970           1971           1972           1973           1974                          1976           1977
Generation - GWh
Hydro                                               2,257          2,448          2,082          1,897          2,4S7          3,129          6,205          8,4896          ,696          9,250
Thermal - Coal                                        677            776            837         1,235          1,280           1,280          1,280          1,280            775            775
- Lignite                                  1,002            841          1,186          1,025          2,660          3,910          4,360          4,360          5,860          7,460
- Fuel Oil                                   806          1,224          1,985          3 765          3,822          4,890          4,378          3, 974         4,155          3,171
Nuclear                                                                        -                     -              -              -                             -              -            BOG
7otal Genesrtion                              878i2          0,219          6,090          71_9!          0,249         3!,209         16,21          18,110    1     9      ,      21,456
Total Generated and Purchased -               rOO17                             j  d d,l70    10,                        554 15 1                  l5 19,491    21         ,4
Station Gee - GWhs                                         227            286            301             02            490            696            860            999          1,050          1,270
Transmission Looses -  Osh                                 218            283            217            260            35             503            623            724            i46          1 003
Total Used and Lost                                                           re5      4     29             we-2,-3                                      7..,72a9i                  12,73
Solos - GJh                                              4,330          4,918          5,820          7,5o9          9,709         12,310         14,741         16,392         17,595         19,188
Average Re.enue per kWh in Kurus                         14.62          14.84          25.26          21.14 2/       23.00          22,09          22.41          22.48          22.76          23.02
Orerating Revenues
Revenue fros Sale of Power                                 632            729            887          1,586          2,232          2,718          3,302          3,684          48,04          4,416
OtherRevenues                                                1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1
Total Operating Revenue,                           i                           73000 w 8                                                                                               ,7 iLL
Ooerating Osoemese
Puel - Coal                                            34             35             42             90            101            101            101            101             38             38
- Lignite                                        35             31             48             39             08            114            124            124            184            247
- Fuel Oil                                       40             65            151            333            354            450            355            364            380            294
-Uraniu                                            -              -             -               -              -              -                     -              -                     35
Cost of Po,er Purchaed                                  6              7             32             32             39             39              1              1              1              1
Rentale for Govt. Hydro Rantg                          52             55                             -                             -              -              -              -              -
Materials other than Fuel                              11             11             17             22             31             34             36             38             45             53
Wlagee and Salaries                                    56             66             87            107            167            198            223            251            294            349
Misoellaneoes Expenees                                 17             14             21             27             35             39             43             46             51             58
Depreciation                                           79             87            257            313            425            522            695            728            808            934
Amortization of Org-nisation
and Major Maintenanee Expensee                          5              4              5              7              9             11             14             16             20             21
Taxes other than Inoms  Taxee                           9             11             11              9             14             19             20             21             25             32
Income Taxes                                           81            133             73            183            292            340            520            642            6975 5,,
Total Operating Expenses                          7                                        11 762T  2     1 1             1.7 272                       2.1
Net Operating Incme                                        203            211            144            425            602            852          1,171          1,353          1,464          1,605
Other nmoose                                                 2             32             36             18             15             16             15             16             16             16
Orose Incaee                                               210            243            180            443            697            86           1,2186         1.369          1.4880         1621
T-ome Dedaotions
Total Interest Chargee                            75            130           153             286           323            373            413            462             507           529
(Less): Interest charged to Contrtl-tio          (                                                                          (44)             1           (1            (128)            (95
Net ntorst Charges                      6              9              6                                           329            362            353M_          379            434
Npt1itfNet Income                                                         150            116            290            462            539            824          1.016          1.101          1.187
AroP,=rimto  of Net Income _
Transefer to  General and Extraordinary Reserves    113              150             17             42             67             78            119            187            160            172
Balance ti Government                                  34                            99            248            395            461            705            869            941          1 015
Total                                                                         117  6 X__                    _              5                2          1,016 f
Rate of Return
Average lNt Fixed Assets in Serie                   1,464          1,526         ,4236           5,206          6,669         80859          13,212         16 345         16,921         18,991
Net Operating Thecoe as r thereof                   14.21_         13.83 _         3.80           8.16          10.23           9.62           8.86           S.28           8.65           8.85
Note:  Income Statmen.t for the year ended December 31, 1972 hta  been drawn up an if TEK coeneced operatio-s on January 1, 1970 and took over D0I assets an that date. All assets                       5
are aseemed to be revelued on January 1, 1970 adopting appropriate ooefficiente for various years, the inerease in net velue of  .seets as of that date eaming to LT 1464 million.  X x
Expenditure through 1969 as other assets brought into se-viee frns 1970 onwards is also revalued to the 1970 level.
1/     If computed on a pro-Porma  basis no if Etibank wnmed DSI assets, with asset values adjusted as agreed to under Loan 568-TU, the rate of return would only be 6.6% in 1968 and
6.7% in 1969.
2/     1 tariff increase raieing average tariffs to 23 krs per 18h (about 48i increase) effective April 1, 1971 is assumed, sith no -sib-equent revisions through period.
3/     Appropriations mode on tbh  basis of the TEK lau which presides for craditing roughly 15% of profit to General and Extraordinary Reserves, and transferring the  balanoe to
Government.
March 23, 1971



TURKEY
Etibank Power Group until October 25, 1970 and
Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) thereafter
Statistics of Operation
1970       1971        1972       1973        1974       1975        1976        1977
Increase in sales
over previous year (%)                18          29         29          27         20          11           7          9
Average revenue/kWh (Krs)          15.26       21.14      23.00       22.09      22.h1       22.h8      22.76       23.02
Operating ratio (%)                               73         69          69         65          63         63          64
Transmission loss
(% of transmission loss
to quantity sent out)               3.59       3.35        3.53        3.96       4.05        h.23       4.59        4.97
Rate of return (net
operating income to average
net fixed assets in
service - %)                        3.4O       8.16       10.23        9.62       8.86        8.28       8.65        8.h5
March  1971
o 0



TURKEY
Etibank Power Group until October 25, 1970 and
Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) thereafter
Statement of Average Net Fixed Assets in Service
Millions of LT)
1969          1970          1971          1972          1973          1974           1975          1976          1977
Fixed Assets in Service                           5,642         6,807         8,174        10,784         13,801        20,728        21,539         23,473        27,457
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                    1,765         2,022         2,335         3,045          3,567         4 262         5 00          5 814          6,748
Net Fixed Assets in Service                   78                                      7773          10,2314       T661                                       20,709
Customer Contrinutions                               92            98           115           125            130           147           163            107           199
Net Fixed Assets in Service
Less Custoner Contributions                 3,785         4,687         5,724         7,614        10,104         16,319        16,370        17,472         20,510
Average Net Fixed Assets in
Service Less Customer Contrioutions                              4,236        5,206         6,669          8,859        13,212        16,345         16,921         8,d91
March 23, 19'71






*                                                                                                                                                         t
TURKEY
Eti_nk Power Grou,np yiL October 25, 1970 acd Turkish Elootricity Authority Thereafter
Eutimated Sorrees and Applications of Funds, 1970-1977
(Millions of IT)
1970                   1971                    1972                    1973                    197A                    1975                    1976                    1977
Soorces of' Fuds
Totornal Casb Gener-tion
Crose Income                                                    190                     443                     697                    868                   1,186                    1,369                  1,480                   i,621
Depreclation                                                    257                     313                     425                    522                     695                      728                     806                     934
Total TItornal C-so  G -enertiton                        737                                          1,122                   1,390                  1.81                     2,097                   2,2c                    2,
Long-Term Borroetinps
Stat,e Investment Sank Loas                                    538                     365                    497                       80                                               -
Poreign Borrowlrgs                                              634                     613                     588                    344                   1.007                     953                     562                     500
Total Long-Term Borrewiega                            fLY72                      97                   1                         424                   1.007                     955                    73 
Other Sources
Customer Teposits                                                i6                      64                      57                      57                      50                      37                      23                      36
Payments of Extended Term Accounts Receivable                    37                      13                      13                      16                      14                      16                       8                       9
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable                         16i                     (92)                    (22)                     (4)                   (61)                       3                      62                     (10)
Increase (Decrease) to Accrued Taxes                            (23)                     93                     109                     53                     181                      123                      57                     62
Increase in Accrued TIterest                                     10                      15                      1o                      10                      10                      10                       5                       5
Customer Contributions for hxtensions                             6                      17                      10                       5                      17                      16                      24                      12
Custoner Ad,aocec for C-eetru-tion                                1                       2                       1                       -                       2                       2                       2                       1
Ircrease in Self-Insurance reserve                                7                      10                      13                     29                       31                      32                      37
Total Other Sources                                      21                     122                     196                                                                     239 2 18   1_0
Total Sources                                          1.824                  1.856                   2,403                   1,980                   3.132                   3.289                   3,068                   3.215
Applications of Funds
Constraction Requirements (To-ludes Interest
Charged to Construction)                                      1,680                   1,150                   1,375                  1,024                   1,681                    1,641                   1,171                  1,148
Debt Service
A,nortization
State Investment Bank J.oans                                  68                      94                     134                     166                     235                     353                     577                     240
Foreign Borrooings                                            31                      49                      65                      48                      51                     108                     129
Total Amortization                                        99                                            73 199        E55                               539                      WI                     -73
Interest
State Investment Bank Loans                                   89                     158                     086                     199                     198                     175                     163                     158
Etibank Credits                                               21                       -                       -                       -                       -                       -                       -
Foreign Boc-atogs                                             43                      88                     137                     174c                    215                     286                     34L                     381
(Less) Charged to Construction                               (89)                    (93)                    (88)                   (44)                    (51)                    (108)                   (123)                    (95)
Total Interest                                           i4                3                               5                    329                     362                                   35367 43
Total Debt Service                                       13                     79                      43 5F                                               T                                         lC                        769
Other Reqruirments
Incr 5easeinTInvestments                                           1                     15                      16                      25                      22                      37                      St                      49
Net Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Debits                         3                      5                       6                       3                       4                       3                       6                       4
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Receivable                      (64)                    127                     101                      82                      99                      64                      51                      64
Increase in Tnventories                                           4                       5                       5                       8                       2                       2                       7                       8
Increase in Prepaid Expenses                                       -                      -                       1                       -                       -                       1                       -
Decrease (Increase) in Deferred Credits                           35                       --                                 -                                   -                       -                       - _
Increase in Cash                                                   2                    159                     217                    (100)                    215                      22                    (170)                    232           e
Payment of Previous Year's Surplus to GOvt.                                               9                     248                     395                     461                     705                     869                     941
Total Other Requirements                                 11097                   7                        97 X13                                                                 83                      812                  1.298
Total Applications                                     1,821                   1X856                   2,403                  1,980                   3,132                    3.289                   3,068
March 24, 1971






ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING INCOME FORECASTS OF TEK FOR 1970-1977
1. Sales
Percentage increase
Year                          over previous year
1970                                  18
*                      1971                                  29
1972                                  29
1973                                  27
1974                                  20
1975                                  11
1976                                   7
1977                                   9
2. Tariffs
Existing tariffs (in force from March 1, 1967 when they were
raised by an average of 45%) are assumed to continue till March 31, 1971
and an average increase of 48% is assumed thereafter. No further increases
are provided during subsequent period.
3. Fuel Costs
Fuel costs are based on current prices.  In case of fuel oil, the
price rose about 45% from August 10, 1970 on account of devaluation and a
further 18% in January 1971 following a rise in international prices raising
it to an average TL 383.18 per ton. Coal prices, which are controlled by
Government, are expected to be raised substantially in 1971. Fuel consumption
varies from plant to plant depending on plant characteristics and age. The
following estimated costs per kWh ha-ve been used for coal and lignites
Coal    - 4.96 krs in Catalagzi and 12.46 krs in Ankara and Istanbul
Lignite - Ranging from 2.46 krs in Seyitomer to 4.10 krs in Thncbilek
The new tariff will take into account average fuel costs as on the date of
revision. The fuel-cost adjustment clause in TEK's tariffs will compensate
for any subsequent changes.



ANNEX iS
Page 2 of 2
4. Wages and Salaries
(a)  Labor - In year for collective agreement  - 20% increase
- In following year                  - 5% increase
(b)  1bnthly-rated personnel - In 1971      - 40% increase as per
Personnel Law
- Other years - 5%
(c) Additional staff is provided on estimated basis as and when new
plant is brought into service.
5. Depreciation
Depreciation is charged on straight-line basis adopting the
following rates which closely follow the actual rates charged in the accounts
for 1969 (for all plant other than Keban and Gokcekaya and for the nuclear
plant).
Thermal - 5%
Hydro   - 3.32%
Network - 3.66%
For Keban and Gokeekaya and for the nuclear plant, the following
rates are applied:
Gokcekaya - 2.70% )
) (on an estimated basis)
Keban     - 2.39%   )
Nuclear   - 2.857%  )  (as per project report)
'these rates are slightly higher than those established as minimums under
Loan 568-TU.
6. Income Taxes
Income Taxes are provided at 38.7% of taxable income.
March 2h, 1971



T UR KE Y
ELECTRIFICATION PLAN
BULGARIA .                             B  .    A    C    K                                                                                                                                          HON                arHan  _
,-rI<-t  B    Z   A    C  . K                           InebA                                                                                                                 . S  Adh-
Bb"-   ~    \        ~                                            -88B                                                                                             iNs.                       5.,~~U. S. . R~.
-.  BLUNburqo)~          e.  k                                                       N                                                        6616                         UIIIZOENEIETERTUARAeUK
/                                           IOBRARUK      ~~~~~~~~~~S 28!EVACI *5U                                           HARS                                       jSf VISERA@    {II
41: ,;                                                                                  (m                                                                                 D Tops -Kb -  (BOGANKENT)  CIL  (                                              ,
~~~  ~~~~  *** MAMA                                                      U                         Bn,on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ODRCS                                                                     [jIT
E                                                                                                                                     ALMUS                                                                             Ag OYIOPEAN
KhM.I.                                                                                         ERC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. N
A,o~                                           ~NeRrlX,ELRITTUNCOIIL  KRRA1NGOL                                                                                                                                                    R  APRVAR
6- < Kornak7                                                              *                                 OR  IUNDsEYR          BANK  PRO CTUt  O
;N MOJR                                                                               U    IN OPERATION
ELSISTANM"'    K ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     BEXSTN  SBSATO
,,,                                                                    ---~ PERVAR I PLANNED  NEW NUESTUTION
;EOITFRA'A                                    N ECEMBER 1970  A k.:                                                                      EAATION                                                                                          3
DECEMBER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                      ~d                            EKOR                                         SLNA                       ARAOKIBROR321Q



