CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 763 TU
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
*                   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 763 TU
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
*                   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿(6uarantre Agrermut
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1971, between the REPUB-
LIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make
to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
twenty four million dollars ( $24,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obli-
gations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated Jan-
uary 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modi-
fications thereof set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined


﻿4
in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Bonds; Provision of Funds
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as pri-
mary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punc-
tual payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, the premium, if any,
on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption of the
Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement and in the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the General Conditions, its
guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by
the Borrower. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
and such other person or persons as he shall appoint in
writing are designated as authorized representatives of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guaran-
tor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
SECTION 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guar-
antor and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy
0


﻿5
any priority over the Loan or the Bonds by way of a lien
on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental
assets as security for any external debt except as otherwise
disclosed in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that if any such lien -shall be created on
any assets of the Guarantor, or of the T.C. Merkez Bankasi
or any other institution performing the functions of a cen-
tral bank, it will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Guar-
antor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of
any such lien.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this See-
tion includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its politi-
cal subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor or of
any such political subdivision.
SEcTION 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions
or any of its agencies or any agency of any such political
subdivisions to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obli-
gations contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or
cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Borrower to obtain the annual return
specified in Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement and to
perform its other obligations under the Loan Agreement.
SEUTION 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such meas-
ures as shall be necessary in order to facilitate the importa-
tion by the Borrower of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan purchased outside Turkey in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end the Guarantor and the Bank
shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(i) exchange views through their representatives with re-
gard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement, any amendments to the
Turkish Electricity Authority Law (No. 1312) that may be
under consideration or other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Loan; and (ii) furnish to the other all such
information as it shall reasonably request with regard to
the general status of the Loan. On the part of the. Guar-
antor, such information shall include information with re-
spect to financial and economic conditions in the territories
of the Guarantor, including its balance of payments, and
the external debt of the Guarantor, of any of its political
subdivisions and of any agency of the Guarantor or of any
such political subdivision.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Guarantor shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threat-
ens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes related
to the Loan.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 5.01. The principal of, and interest and 'other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds -hall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
0


﻿7
laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories;
provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to
taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned
by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.02. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan
Agreement, any instrument made pursuant to Section 3.01
of this Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection
with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof
and the Guarantor shall, in respect of any instrument made
pursuant to such Section 3.01, pay all such taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of any other country or countries.
SECTION 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall
be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls or mora-
toria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
SECTION 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey


﻿8
Cable address:
Maliye
Hazine
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereu.nto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ AHMET TUFAN GUL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


