Report No. 295-CM                                                                      FILE  CO:PY
Appraisal of the
Livestock Development Project
Cameroon
March 6, 1974
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction arnd Oevelopment
International Finance Corporation
International Deveiopment Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It mnay not be pubbshed.
quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does not accent resDon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1       =       CFAF 250
CFAF 1      =       US$ 0.0040
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       =      0.62 miles
1 meter (m)            =      39.37 inches
1 ton                  =      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BCD      =  Cameroon Development Bank
CCCE     =  Caisse Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique--
Agency of the Republic of France
FONADER  = Fonds National de Développement Rural
SODEPA   = Socièté de Développement et dtExploitation des
Productions Animales
FISCAL YEMAR
July 1     -     June 30



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . .. . . .. . . ... . ..       i - iV
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................,1
II.  BACKGRO8UND   . 6. 00.         a  . .. . . . .... . . .2
A,   General o.,* .........   2
B.   Agriculture Sector  ........................       2
C.   The Livestock Subsector .     ..............    3
D.   Institutions        ....                           7
E.   Livestock Development Strategy .............   8
III.   TIIE PROJECT ............. m* . .t     10
A.  Description ..                                     10
B.   Detailed Features .....................  ,       10
C.   Ecology                                           16
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....         17
A.   Project Costs                                     17
B.   Proposed Financing                                18
C.  Procurement ....................         .....  20
D.   Diabursement ............................   21
E.  Accounts and Audit ...............,.........  21
V.   ORGANIZATION AND M&NAGEMENT .....................  22
A.   Organization .....................  22
B.   Staffing                     ...... .,.,,,23
C .   Training . ....... ,,                            23
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS 24
A.   Production                          *~...........  , 24
B.  Prices tin................          . ........,  24
CB    Marke ting . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... . 24
D.   Financial Results .....................  ,       25
This report is based on the findings of en appraisal mission, composed of Messrs.
A. Cole, H. Ochs and C. Wolffelt of the Bank staff and K. MacLennan and
H. Vieilhescaze (consultants), which visited Cameroon in May and June 1973.






Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............   26
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .. ..............   27
ANNEXES
1.  Beef Supply and Demand
Table 1 - Cattle Slaughter and Meat Production by Zones
Table 2 - Beef Consumption per Capita and Total Consumption
by Zone
Table 3 - Supply Projection
Table 4 - Demand Projection
2.   Livestock Subsector
3.   Project Credit Arrangements
Table - Project Loan Disbursement and Collection Arrangements
4.   SODEPA
Table 1 - Headquarters Costs
5.   Traditional Sector Credit
Table 1 - Model I - Investment and Income Statement
Table 2 - Model I - Farm Cash Flow
Table 3 - Model II - Herd Projection (250 ha)
Table 4 - Model II - Investment and Income Statement
Table 5 - Model II - Cash Flow
Table 6 - Model III - Herd Projection (750 ha)
Table 7 - Model III - Investment and Income Statement
Table 8 - Model III - Cash Flow
Table 9 - Project Administration Costs (FONADER)
Table 10 -FONADER Traditional Sector and Butcher Loans Cash Flow
Table 11 -Economic Rate of Return
6.   Tsetse Fly Extermination
Table 1 - Capital Costs and Phasing
Table 2 - Operating Costs
Table 3 - Economic Rate of Return
Appendix - Terms of Reference for the Tsetse Fly Ecologist
and Extermination Specialist



(Annexes Cont'd)
7.   SODEPA Ranches
Table 1 - Breeding Ranch (Dumbo and Faro) Herd Projection
Table 2 - Breeding Ranch (Dumbo and Faro) Investment Costs
Table 3 - Breeding Ranch (Dumbo and Faro) Income and Operating
Wosts
-able 4 - Fattening Ranch (Ndokayo) Herd Projection
Table 5 - Fattening Ranch (Ndokayo) Investment Costs
Table 6 - Fattening Ranch (Ndokayo) Income and Operating Costs
8.   Processing Facilities
'rable 1 - Modern Butcher Investment, Operating Cost and Income
Table 2 - Modern Butcher Cash Flow
Table 3 - Yaounde Abattoir - Slaughter 1967/72
Table 4 - Douala Abattoir - Slaughter 1967/72
Table 5 - Investrent Costs
Table 6 - Yaounde Income and Operating Expenses
Table 7 - Douala Income and Operating Expenses
Table 8 - Assumptions fot Computing Income
9.   Project CGost Phasing
10.   Financing Plan
11.   Disbursements of IBRD Loan
Table t - Annual Disbursement by Categories
Table 2 - Quarterly Diabursement
12    SODEPA Cash Flow
13.   Government Cash Flow
14.   Project Econonic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
MA- S
1.   Location of Project Activities
2.   Tsetse-Fly Distribution



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank assistance to finance
a livestock project. The project was identified by a PMWA mission in
September 1971 and subsequently prepared by consultants employed by Government.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Cameroon in May and June 1973.
ii.       Cameroon has good potential for livestock development, but produc-
tion even at present levels is threatened by tsetse-fly infestations and con-
strained by the unproductive traditional nomadic and seminomadic grazing
methods employed by most cattle owners.  Hence meat production is not keeping
pace with demand, and to maintain per capita beef consumption at present low
levels would require production increases of about 50 percent by 1985.
iii.      Government's main livestock development objective is to satisfy
Cameroon's bee  requirements throu- h- increased -domstic'production.  As a
subsîditzsiciEtEnélist-ttF5nXnhR  and mini,,,%ze,
waste by improving slaughter and retail buft1iêhêÏsho 'facilities in Yaounde
-ie'ËDouala.  Governmnet plans to assist livestock producers in tw6inmportant
ways: first by helping then to intensify their grazing methods; and secondly
by safeguarding grazing lands for livestock through tsetse-fly extermination.
While extermination campaigns have been successfully carried out in Nigeria
for over 20 years, means for intensifying production by traditional pastoralists
though proven elsewhere in Africa are largely untried under West African condi-
tions. Recognizing that changes in production systems will involve risks and
that innovations need to be tested to determine their technical and financial
feasibility as well as their social acceptability, Government has prepared
investment proposals for this purpose involving both state and private sector
ranch developnent.
iv.       The project proposed in this report would sunport Government's plans
and would enable it to implement the first phase of its livestock development
program.  It would comprise establishing and operating three 20,000 ha state
ranches and two slaughter plants, modernizing 12 butcher shops, developing
livestock production on 150 private ranches and farms, and eradicating tsetse-
flies from 800,000 ha of good pasture land.  A Government-owned company would
develop and operate the state owned ranches and slaughter plants,
FODAUEf would provide credit for private ranch, farm and
`-butcher shop development; and the Ministry of Livestock vould plan and imple-
ment the tsetse-fly extermination campaign. The Ministry would also administer
funds for training Cameroonians in livestock production and the preparation
of further investment proposals for the livestock subsector. Private sector
participants would include families varving in size from about 6 members on
small mixed farms to about 50 for the family groups of traditional
pastoralists on larger ranches.



- ii -
v.        In addition to its investments and institutional developments, the
project would introduce changes in land tenure arrangements and pave the way
for changes in retail price controls for meat to provide adequate security
and incentives for pastoralists and meat traders to improve their production
and trading methods. For the first time in Cameroon, pastoralists would
receive individual rights to land under 20 year leases. As a consequence
of these innovations, the project must be considered a large scale pilot
operation. The risk involved in such a nroject is well justified, however,
as without these innovations the cattle subsector will stagnate in an environ-
ment that, in terms of water and pasture, lends itself to efficient cattle
production. Moreover, the project components have been designed to permit
their early replication as experience is gained in determining the most
efficient means of adapting modern techniques to local conditions.
vi.       The proposed Bank loan of US$11.6 million would be made to Govern-
ment of Cameroon for a term of 21 years, including a six-year grace period.
Tle loan would cover 80 percent of total project costs that are estimated
at US$14.6 million, excluding taxes, and all of the foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$7.4 million. Of the local currency costs, estimated at
IJS$7.2 million 58 percent would be covered by the Bank loan and the remaining
42 percent by Government budgetary allocations (IIS$2.8 million), and sub-
borrowers (US$0.2 million). About US$100,000 of the Bank loan would finance,
retroactively, expenditures for salaries of expatriates expected to be employed
on project implementation between loan negotiations and effectiveness.  The
Bank loan, together with Governnent's contribution, would be onlent (US$0.9
million) and nrovided as a grant (US$0.4 million) to FONADER to finance loans
and loan administration for sub-borrowers to develop their farms, ranches
and shops; lent (US$6.0 million), and passed on as equity (US$0.5 million) in
SODEPA to establish and operate the state-owned ranches and slaughter plants,
and provided as budgetary allocations (IJS$3.8 million) to the Ministry of
Livestock for tsetse-fly extermination, training and the preparation of a
follow-up project. US$2.8 million would be held as a contingency reserve.
vii.      Contracts for all goods and materials in excess of US$50,000 would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. International procurement would
amount to US$4.4 million; land clearing and fencing US8 0.2 million; buildings
US$1.1 million; aerial spraying, insecticides and fuel US$1.9 million; and
equipment and vehicles US$1.1 million. Since slaughter plant construction
would involve the careful integration of specialized buildings and equipment
it would be procured under a turnkey contract.  This is the normal and most
effective procurement method for plants of the type proposed for this project.
Only domestic cattle would be required for the project and the only practical
means of purchasing these would be through negotiated contracts with local
traders; the value of such purchases weould be about US$2.6 million, or 22
percent of total project costs. As SODEPA's ranches would be developed over
four years, the ranch infrastructures, estimated to cost about US$ 0.3 mil-
lion, would be constructed by force account. Private farmers and cattle
owners receiving loans from FONADER would procure goods and services valued



- iii -
at US$1.1 million through commercial channels. Bulk procurement under the
Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding would be inappropriate
as orders would be irregular and not ascertainable in advance.  Other procure-
ment for ranch infrastructure development and equipment amounting to about
US$0.3 million would be through locally advertised bidding, as contracts
would be too small to attract international bidders and bulk procurement would
not be practicable as the orders would be irregular and placed over a period
of time. Internationally recruited staff and consultants, estimated to cost
US$1.3 million, would be employed in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
viii.     The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 100 percent of payments by FONADER under sub-loans to
butchers, farmers, and cattle owners (representing 80
percent of the investment cost of shop, farm and ranch
development) -US$0.9 million;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for SODEPA's expatriate
salaries; consultants for the tsetse-fly extermination
component and for project preparation; and overseas graduate
and post-graduate training - US$1.1 million;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of total
expenditures for spraying, insecticides, fuels, vehicles
and equipment for the tsetse-fly extermination component;
and consultants, vehicle and equipment for loan administra-
tion for FONADER -US$2.2 million;
(d) 90 percent of total expenditures for buildings, vehicles
and equipment, livestock and ranch infrastructure develop-
ment for SODEPA; and land clearing and fencing for the
tsetse-fly component, US$ 5 million.
US$2.4 million of the loan would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
Disbursements against sub-borrower loans for butchers, farmers, and cattle-
owners would be against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the
borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision.
ix.       The principal direct benefits from project developed farms and
ranches would be the incremental annual production of about 1,300 tons of
meat, 2,000 breeding heifers, 1,500 improved breeding bulls, and 1,500 feeder
steers at full development in PY12. An additional 3,000 tons of meat would
be produced annually by graziers in areas reclaimed from tsetse-flies. The
total incremental meat production would represent an increase of about 10
percent over Cameroon's present output, all of which would be required for



- iv -
domestic consumption. The project would also have important but unquantifi-
able benefits that, it is anticipated, will lay the foundation for a modern
livestock industry. These would include (a) the demonstration of improved
techniques of cattle and land management that would be suitable for adoption
by a wide cross section of private graziers and farmers; (b) training of
Cameroonians in livestock production (c) development of credit, extension and
tsetse-fly extermination services; (d) reduction of overgrazing; and (e)
improvement of meat quality in the country' s two largest cities. The economic
rate of return for the project is estimated at 13 percent. The financial
rates of return for investments made by private farmers and graziers are
estimated at between 14 and 23 percent; for the large-scale SODEPA ranches,
12 percent; and for slaughter plants, 15 percent. The per capita net cash
fincomes for families of ranchers and farmers would be between US$100 and US$250
at full development compared to predevelopment incomes of between US$50 and
US$75.
x.        Subject to obtaining the assurances set out in Section VIII, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$11.6 million.



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank assistance in financ-
ing a project, estimated to cost US$ 14.6 million equivalent, that would
increase cattle production to meet the country's rapidly growing demand for
meat.
1.02      The project was identified by a PMWA mission in September 1971 and
subsequently prepared by consultants employed by Government. It would be
carried out over six years (1974-79), and vould be the first Bank Group opera-
tion in Cameroon's livestock subsector and the fourth in its agriculture sec-
tor. The others are (i) the Camdev plantation project, Loan 490-CM for
US$7.0 million and Credit 100-CM for US$11.0 million in 1967; (ii) the SOCAPALM
oil palm plantation project, Loan 593-CM for US$7.9 million in 1969 and Loan
886-CM for US$1.7 million in 1973; and (iii) the SEMRY rice project, Credit
302-CM for US$3.7 million in 1972. Funds for the Camdev project have been
depleted by cost increases, lower than expected income from non-project plant-
ings, and excessive overhead. Government recently implemented economy mea-
sures to reduce overhead costs and the Camdev project is now proceeding
satisfactorily. The SOCAPALM project proceeded satisfactorily initially, but
had to be reappraised in 1972 because of cost overruns and because one of the
two sites selected for development was unsatisfactory. After reappraisal the
project was reduced from 9,000 to 8,500 ha, but estimated production remains
unchanged as the yields are expected to exceed forecasts at appraisal. The
project is nov on schedule. The SEMRY rice project has progressed satisfac-
torily since implementation began in mid-1972.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs. A. Cole, H. Ochs and C. Wolffelt of the Bank staff and
K. MacLennan and H. Vieilhescaze (consultants) that visited Cameroon in May
and June 1973.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The United Republic of Cameroon, stretching inland for some 1,500 km
from the Bight of Benin to Lake Chad in the Sahelian zone, has an area of
about 475,000 1m2 and a population of about 6.1 million that is growing at an
annual rate of about 2.2 percent. The overall population density of 12.8 per-
sons per km2 is low, but some mountain and coastal areas have densities of up
to 225 persons per km2. Migration from rural to urban areas is high; towns
with over 5,000 inhabitants are growing annually at about 7 percent, compared
with population growth of about 1 percent for rural areas.
2.02      Between independence in 1960 and mid-1972, Cameroon was a Federal
Republic comirising French-speaking East Cameroon, vith 80 percent of the
total population, and English-speaking West Cameroon. In July 1972 a central
government replaced the former federal and two state governments. The new
unified administration should improve economic planning and project lmplemen-
tation, both of which were hindered by complicated government procedures and
fragmented responsibilities.
2.03      The constitutional changes are timely, as the general economic
situation has deteriorated recently and the outlook for the economy is un-
certain.  Growth, in monetary terme, was 8.3 percent in 1970/71, compared
with slightly more than 11.5 percent in each of the previous five years.  In
real terms the annual increase was probably less than 5 percent. Furthermore,
there vere considerable price increases in urban areas during 1972 after more
modest but still noticeable increases in 1971.  The principal problems nov
facing the economy include the present low level of domestic and external fi-
nancial resources, a recent and rapid increase in external debt, a mounting
trade deficit, and a slowdown in private investment. So far, Government's
published plans have not tackled these issues and the third Five-Year Plan
lacks the sound policy framework needed to determine priorities. Since the
agriculture sector is the mainstay of the economy, agricultural projects and
projects that improve services to the sector ehould receive high priority in
Government development planning.
B. Agriculture Sector
2.04      Agriculture accounts for approximately 40 percent of GDP, which
amounted to CFAF296 billion (US$ 1.5 billion) in 1970/71 and for about 70
percent of exports, comprising principally cocoa, coffee, cotton and timber.
Slightly less than 80 percent of the population depends on agriculture for
their livelihood, and in 1970/71 the per capita GDP for the sector vas about
US$75, compared to an average of US$190 for all sectors. Although cash crop
production is ïncreasing, 60 percent of the population still comprise f mil-
ies of farmers and graziers whose cash incomes and subsistence production are
between US$30 and US$75 per capita.



2.05      Over the past five years, while the output of export crops has
increased by 30 to 40 percent, food crop production has increased much
less rapidly and meat production has, at best, only kept pace with population
growth. The increases in export crops reflect favorable market conditions and
Government investment and support programs, in particular for coffee, cocoa
and cotton. In contrast, Government has done little to supiport domestic food
production, and prices of food crops and meat have risen sharDly in recent
years, particularly in urban areas. Government is now anxious to increase
domestic food production to curb price rises and as one of its first steps it
plans to promote beef production.
C. The Livestock Subsector
2.06      Livestock production is valued at about US$40 million annually and
accounts for about 9 percent of Cameroon's agricultural production. The
livestock population is estimated at 2.5 to 3 million cattle, 3 million sheep
and goats, 0.5 million pigs and 8 million poultry. Annual meat production,
including meat from some 35,000 cattle and 5,000 sheep imported on the hoof
from Chad, is estimated at 75,000 tons, equivalent to an average per capita
consumption of about 12 kg. About 65 percent of all meat production is beef
that is produced mostly by traditional pastoralists, some mixed farmers in the
north, and by two foreign-owned ranching companies. These companies export
annually between 1,000 and 1,500 tons of beef, equivalent to about 50 percent
of their production, mainly to Gabon and the People's Republic of the Congo.
To maintain beef consumption at present levels for urban (21 kg per capita)
and rural (5 kg per capita) populations, without substantial imports, domes-
tic supplies of beef would need to be raised from their 1973 level of about
50,000 tons to about 76,000 tons by 1985 (Annex 1). Even this limited objec-
tive is impossible, vithout investments to increase the productivity of the
national cattle herd.
2.07      Cameroon may be divided into three livestock zones covering the
northern, central, and southern areas of the country (Annex 2). The northern
zone comprises about 100,000 sq km. It has a cattle population of about 0.9
million that satisfies most of the meat requirements of its 1.5 million human
population. While cattle pass through the zone from Chad to Nigeria, south-
ward movement of animals to the rest of Cameroon is prohibited to prevent the
spread of disease. Under present extensive grazing systems of cattle owners
and the constraints of tsetse-fly infestations on land, production for the
zone has almost reached its full potential. The central zone consists of the
Adamaoua Plateau (64,000 sq. km) and the northwestern highlands (18,000 sq.
km).  It has a cattle population of about 1.5 million head that not only
satisfies the needs of the local ponulation (0.75 million), but also provides
about 90 percent of the beef consumed in southern Cameroon. The central zone
has good prospects for increasing production as cattle owners are becoming
increasingly aware of the commercial value of their livestock and interested
in improving their grazing practices. This zone also contains good grass-
lands that can be otened up for grazing bv exterminating tsetse-flies.  The
southern zone comprises about 290,000 sq. km and about 60 percent of the
countrv's human population. It is the principal market for meat, but the



-4-
lowest producer, with a cattle population of about 100,000 head. Potential
for cattle development is poor because of extensive tsetse-fly infestations
for which extermination is not at present feasible.
The Traditional Producer
2.08      In Cameroon, cattle are raised mainly by-the nomadic and semi-nomadic
M'bororo and Poulbe pastoralists.  The M'Bororo live in northern and eastern
Cameroon .en  the- western part of the Adamaoua Plateau (Map), and are nomads
to whom national frontiers mean little. The number of settled M'bororos is
extremely small and there is little to indicate that permanent settlement is
becoming more common. Most of the M'bororo cattle are run in herds of 100 to
500 animals by family groups of ten to a hundred persons.  As cattle symbolize
wealth, they are only sold to pay for essential food and household gooda. The
Poulbe have settled on the Adamaoua Plateau and in the northwestern highlands.
During the dry season they graze theïr herds (except for milking animale,
whîcn remain at the homestead) in the lower-lying valleys, and during the wet
season on the high grazing land surrounding the homes'tead. TRerds usually
consist of 60 to 100 animals and are mostly owned by families of about 10
people. Occasionally larger herds of up to 500 animals are formed by family
groups under a traditional leader. In contrast to the M'bororos, the Foulbes
have started te exploit their cattle for cash income.  When family consumption
of meat and milk is valued at market prices and added to livestock sales, the
per capita income of a typical Foulbe or M'bororo pastoralist is probably
between US$50 and US$75.
Cattle Productivity
2.09      Except for the foreign-owned ranching companies (para. 2.06) that
have introduced modern production techniques, cattle-raising in Cameroon has
remained unchanged for centuries. The live weight gain of animals, about 16
kg per year, is low compared ta the 70 - 80 kg achieved in countries w'lth
modern livestock sectors and the 40 kg obtained on some of the foreign-owned
ranches in Cameroon. In addition, the calving rate of about 40 percent, and
high adult mortality of 6 percent result in a low productivity.  Annual off-
take together with the increase in the national herd is about Il percent, com-
pared with 25 - 30 percent in Europe and North America; and carcass weights,
which average 130 kg, are only half those in Europe and North America.  Defi-
ciencies in nutrition are important reasons for low productivity, and during
the dry season the cattle commonly lose 10 - 20 percent of their liveweight.
Animal Heaith
2.10      The mortality rate for adult cattle is high and reflects the gene-
rally Inadequiate animal health services (para. 2.20). Trypanosomiasis i wide-
spread and is the most important constraint on livestock production.  This
tsetse-fly transmitted dîsease not only adversely affects cattle productivity,
but also determines the distribution of cattle. Consequiently, about two-thirds
of Cameroon's cattle are crowded into the country's only trvpanosomiasis-free
areas in the north and a narrow belt across central Cameroon, including part
of the Ada=aoiua Plateau and the western highlands that together total about



- 5 -
100,000 sq. km (para. 2.07 and Map). This situation has been aggravated over
the past 15 years by a southeastward advance over the Adamaoua Plateau of
savannah tsetse-flies (Glossina morsitans) that are a highly infected and
therefore a dangerous vector of trypanosomiasis.
2.11      The challenge of trypanosomiasis for cattle production can be over-
come by introducing trypanosomiasis-tolerant Ndama cattle, exterminating
tsetse-flies, and by treating cattle with prophylactic and curative drugs.
Since Ndama breeding stock are in short suptly and can cost up to three times
as much as the more common Zebu cattle, they are only introduced to areas
where tsetse-fly extermination and treatment of cattle with drugs are not
feasible as, for instance, in the forested grazing lands of the Guinea zone of
West Africa. In savannah areas, however, where the vegetation is less dense,
tsetse-fly extermination is feasible, and is the only lasting and satisfac-
tory method of containing trypanosomiasis. A small extermination campaign
has already been carried out successfully in Northern Cameroon with help from
the Nigerian Government, and the project proposed in this report would be
carried out in good potential savannah grazing areas where tsetse-fly exter-
mination would be the only feasible means of overcoming trypanosomiasis (para
3.10). Prophylactic and curative drugs are used on a large scale in Cameroon
and these give the cattle limited protection from trypanosomiasis.  However,
under the constant challenge of highly infected G. morsitans tsetse-flies,
the drugs are having to be used more frequently, leading to drug resistance,
loss of meat around injection sites, and temporary lameness. Work is in
progress in Kenya to produce a long-lasting vaccine against trypanosomiasis
and, while this will be continued by the International Laboratory for Research
on Animal Diseases in Nairobi, results so far are not promising.
2.12      In any program of tsetse-fly extermination in Cameroon the first
priority would be to stop the advance of Glossina morsitans and eliminate it
from the central savannah areas (Map). 'rhis could be done in a series of
campaigns over a period of perhaps 20 years. On completion except for a
border with the Central African Republic of about 60 km, the cleared areas
would be protected from reinfestation by natural barriers to the south and
by the extermination already completed by Nigeria to the west and north (Map).
Land Tenure
2.13      Cameroon has two land tenure laws concerning agricultural land, one
for the former West Cameroon and the other for East Cameroon. Both laws are
similar, and under them land is owned communally and rights of usufruct are
allocated by the traditional leaders. They differ, however, on the use of
grazing land. In West Cameroon, cattle owners are required to obtain an
annual permit from the local authorities to gain entry to grazing land.  These
permits do not provide exclusive rights to individuals, the same land may be
grazed bv several permit holders. In East Cameroon permits are not required
and the grasslands are used freely. The two laws also differ on the power
of the state to allocate individual land rights. In the West, Governnent
may issue leases (certificates of occupancy) to individuals but not freehold



titles, whereas in the East the law empowers Government to provide freehold
titles but not leases. W4hile certificates of occupancy and freehold titles
can be granted to farmers and cattle owners, only a few have been granted.`
2.14      Since graziers do not have secttre rights to land, they normally
exploit grazing for short-term gains and make no attempt to improve pastures
or manage them for long-term benefits.  Consequently, grazing lands are often
misused and overgrazed. Moreover, in the absence of any permanent demarca-
tion of r~azing areas, cultivators in the western highlands are expanding
their cultivation on to steep valley slopes that would be better protected
from soil erosion if they remained under pasture. (para 3.09)
Taxation
2.15      Cattle oeners are required to pay taxes on their cattle (Jangali),
amoounting to CFAF  200 - 300 per head annually.  The taxes are collected by
local authorities, who usually retain about 50 percent for their own account
and pass the remaining 50 percent on to the Government. In East Cameroon
the collection rate is about 30 percent of the total due; collections are
higher -- about 80 percent -- in West Cameroon, where cattle owners fear that
they mav not be issued grazing permits if they do not pay the taxes. CFAF
200 is also levied for each animal sold at official markets. While both
these taxes are unpopular and qften avoided, they provide the only proven way
to raise revenues from livestock and are common throughout Western Africa.
The Bank plans to finance studies in Chad and Nigeria to determine the most
appropriate tax svstem for the livestock subsector, and the recommendations
arising from these studies may also be applicable in Cameroon.
Meat-Processing and Retail Trade Facilities in Yaounde and Douala
2.16      Yaounde and Douala account for about 15 percent of Cameroon's
beef consumption. Cattle and amall stock are brought in on the hoof and
by truck and rail by cattle traders from central Cameroon.  Slaughter is
carried out in the abattoirs owned and operated by the two tmunicipalities.
The local authorities provide the slaughtermen and veterinary inspectors, but
the butchers and wholesale traders skin and dress the animals with their own
hired labor. Both abattoirs are unhygienie; they have no washing facilities
nor means of preventing the spread of contamination from diseased carcasses,
and their effluent pollutes the rivers and surrounding areas. Neither build-
ing is sui table for modernization or for expansion to satisfy growing demand
for beef. In addition to the unhygienic conditions at the slaughter plants,
few butchers have meat-freezing or chilling equipment nor do they keep their
shops and stalls properly cleaned. Consequently, the meat is easily contam-
inated, leading to wastage as well as health hazards (paras 3.18 and 3.19).



-7 -
D-  Institutions
Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
2.17      FONADER was established in mid 1973 as Government's agency respons-
ible for financing and promoting rural development. It has broad respons-
ibilities covering agriculture, livestock, forest exploitation, fisheries,
handicrafts, housing and, in general, all the economic and social aspects of
rural development. It may provide grant and loan financing to suppc,rt these
activities either through intermediary agencies or direct to individual
borrowers. Policy formulation rests with a board of 12 Government appointed
directors, each representing agencies concerned with rural development.  The
General Manager is the chief executive officer and FONADER'S headquarters
comprises three Departments: Administration and Finance; Credit; and Rural
Investments.  In the field, committees representing provincial departments
and local authorities have been established to prepare and supervise projects
and to recommend loans. Senior staff positions have been filled by Cameroonians
experienced and qualified in planning, financial administration, and agri-
culture. However, as Cameroon's banks and credit agencies have little
previous experience with providing credit for agricultural development,
FONADER is seeking an agricultural credit specialist to support its agri-
cultural credit activities.
2.18      FONADER's principal sources of funds will be from participation
in taxes and levies on agricultural exports and imports.  It will also receive
Government grants and is authorized to borrow.
2.19      The establishment of a single rural development financing agency
brings together functions that were until now discharged by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Government stabilization funds, the Cameroon Development Bank,
and provincial and local rural development agencies. This concentration
of responsiblities opens up opportunities for providing development credit
for agricultural and livestock production within integrated projects and
programs, a function largely neglected and beyond the reach of other credit
and banking institutions. FONADER's management is aware of the difficulties
associated with agricultural credit and plans to expand its credit activities
initially in the framework of well defined projects.
,inistry of Livestock
2.20      The 'Ministry of Livestock lias four divisions:  animal health, ani-
mal production, research and training, and sea fisheries.  The animal health
division (comprising 10 veterinarians, about 65 veterinary assistants, 110
animal health assistants and 70 innoculators) provides free vaccinations and
treatment for cattle. Government is reviewing the possibility of making a
charge for these services. The division is short both of qualified staff and
of funds to purchase and distribute drugs. The lack of qualified staff is



- 8-
particularly severe in Adamaoua, where two veterinarians are responsible for
providing health services to about 1.2 million cattle. The animal production
division was created in 1973, with responsibility for animal production,
marketing, processing and extension services. In the former east Cameroon,
extension work is carried out among the cattle owners near Ngaoundere by one
extension worker, a ratio of extension workers to animals of about 1 to 2
million. In northwestern Cameroon, a farmer/grazier service, comprising 30
veterwlarL  and agricultural assistants whose primary work has been to issue
grazing permits, has been operational for several years. Even here, where
the ratio of extension workers to animals is about 1:10,000, animal produc-
tion extension work has been very limited. The research division, in associa-
tion with the Ministries of Planning and Education, is responsible for re-
search and training. Veterinarians have been trained abroad at a rate of
about 2 a year and small numbers of veterinary assistants (10 on three-year
ci^ - es) and animal health assistants (20 on two-year courses) are trained
at Maroua in northern Cameroon. Government is increasing training for
veterinarians under bilateral aid prograns and in 1973 six Cameroonians were
sent on vetarinary courses to Belgium.  In addition Government is planning
to increase the output of veterinary assistants from Maroua, and the proposed
expansion of this training facility has been included in a preinvestment
study that should be completed by the Institut de Recherche et d'Application
de Methodes de Developpement in January 1974. The project proposed in this
report would only make small demands on Government's veterinary services, and
the present veterinary staff and measures taken and under consideration by
Government to expand staff training would meet the project's requirements and
facilitate the expansion of the veterinary services to meet other development
needs. Much of the research and trial work at Governnent experimental sta-
tions is of a high standard, but because of the limited extension and credit
facilities research findings are neither known nor applied by graziers.
E. Livestock Development Strategy
2.21      The main objective of Government's livestock plans is to satisfy
Cameroon's beef requirements through increased domestic production; a sub-
sidiary objective is the improvement of slaughter facilities in the interest
of hygiene and the minimization of waste. As a first stage of development,
Government intends to develop the subsector in areas of high pasture produc-
tion potential, where pastoral development will not conflict with crop pro-
ductîon. In nursuit of îts subsidiary objective, Government plans to provide
a*odern slaughter facïlities at Yaounde and Douala.
2.22      Covernment's primary strategy is to encourage production by private
graziers arid farmers. At present cattle production has almost reached its
rull poterntîai under the existing constraints of the low cost extensive graz-
1ng systems practiced by most cattle owners (para. 2.08), and the limitations



-9-
on grazing areas imposed by tsetse-fly infestations (para. 2.10). Government
plans therefore to assist producers in two important ways, first by helping
progressive farmers and graziers to intensify their production methods, and
secondly by safeguarding grazing lands for livestock through tsetse-fly ex-
termination campaigns. Means for intensifying production by private graziers
and farmers have been proven elsewhere in Africa, but they are largely un-
tried under West African conditions. It is essential therefore that their
introduction on any large scale in Cameroon should be preceded by a suffi-
ciently large program of pilot operations to test and determine technical
parameters and financial returns as well as livestock owner responses.
2.23      For more than 20 years, tsetse-fly extermination has been carried
out successfully in Nigeria, including areas bordering on Cameroon. Govern-
ment appreciates that similar programs are needed in Cameroon to check the
advance of tsese-flies into trypanosomiasis-free areas, and to release the
new pasture lands that are essential for any substantial long term increase
in cattle production.
2.24      While Government's primary strategy is to assist private graziers
and farmers, it recognizes that changing production systems will involve risks
and that innovations will need to be tested and demonstrated before they
would be adopted by large numbers of pastoralists. For this purpose, Govern-
ment plans tc) complement its direct assistance to the private sector by de-
veloping a small number of state-owned ranches. In addition to testing and
demonstrating new cattle production systems, these ranches would aim to pro-
duce good quality breeding and fattening animals for stocking private ranches
and farms. Moreover, the technical experience gained on these ranches would
provide a sound base for the development by the private sector of areas
cleared from tsetse-flies (para 2.23). The project proposed in this report
would support Government's strategy by financing development of private
ranches and farms, by developing three state-owned ranches that would be
readily accessible for demonstrations to most pastoralists in the leading cat-
tle producing areas of Cameroon, by exterminating tsetse-flies from an
area that would provide grazing for herds of up to 1,000 pastoral families,
and by improving slaughter facilities.
2.25      Cameroon is not at present a large importer of cattle from the
pastoral areas of the Sahel. However, with successful intensification of
production and tsetse-fly extermination in the high potential grass produc-
tion areas of Central Cameroon, this area could finish large numbers of cattle
from the Sahel region. This development could lead to an efficient regional
stratification of livestock production that would not only benefit Cameroon,
but also neighboring pastoral areas to the north.



- 10 -
III. THE PROY3CT
A. Description
3.01      The project woulc be the first stage of a Government program to
modernize the livestock subsector and would be carried otlt over a six-year
development period, 1974-79. It would comprise:
(a) providing credit facilities and technical assistance
to about 35 mixed farmers to carry out steer fattening,
and to 115 settled graziers to develop breeding fatten-
ing ranches;
(b)  exterminating tsetse-flies in about 800,O00 ha to
provide additional grazing areas and contain the
southeastward advance of tsetse flies toward the fly-
free grazing lands of central Cameroon;
(c) establishing and operating three Government-owned
20,000-ha ranches;
(d) constructing two slaughter plants, and modernizing 12
butcher shops in Douala and Yaounde;
(e) training ranch and slaughter plant managers, animal
production extension officers, credit officers, and
tsetse-fly extermination and survey teams;
(f) preparing a second-stage project for livestock
development that would include measures to ensure
the effective use of areas cleared of tsetse-flies,
the expansion of credit facilities to the traditional
sector, and the continuation of tsetse-fly extermination.
B. Detailed Features
Cattle Production and Tsetse-Fly Extermination Areas
3.02      Project cattle nroduction and tsetse-fly extermination activities
would be carried out in eastern, central and northwestern Cameroon (Maps).
Arart from the Dresense of tsetse-flies in eastern and central Cameroon, the
three areas are well adapted to cattle-raising.  Altitudes vary from 700 to
2,300 m and annual rainfall from 1,400 to 2,700 mm. The dry season lasts
about five months in central Cameroon, but is only two months in eastern and
northwestern Cameroon. All areas are well watered, with permanent streams
rarelv more than 5 km apart. Drainage is generally good. Above 1,400 m



- 1i1 -
vegetation is grass savannah, but below that altitude tree and shrub savannah
predominates. The valley bottoms are heavilv wooded along the river banks.
Pastures are good and in somte places excellent, and the scope for improvement
is large through neasures such as fire control and rotational grazing. The
stocking rates under current conditions range between 2 and 4 ha per animal
unit.
Maageet
3.03      The project would equip and staff a parastatal company, Societe
de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions Animales (SODEPA), which
would be responsible for the technical supervision of project activities con-
cerning mixed farmers, graziers and butchers, as well as for establishing
and operating the three project ranches and two slauighter nlants (para. 5.01
and Annex 4).  The project would also equip and staff a nee division to be
established within the Ministry of Livestock to implement the tsetse-fly
extermination program.
Traditional Sector Development
3.04      UJnder the project, credit facilities would be provided by BCD and
technical assistance by SODEPA to about 35 mixed farmers and 115 settled
graziers to develop small-scale cattle fattening and larger breeding/fatten-
ing operations. The credit programn would be the first for cattle production
in Cameroon and would involve, in association with on-farm and ranch invest-
ments, the introduction of improved grazing systems and changes in land
tenure arrangements (Annex 4).
3.05      Mixed farms would be located in the arabica coffee growing areas
of northwestern Cameroon (Map) and would include coffee farmers with about
4 ha of land, who would finish 3 steers annually (Model I, Annex 5, Table 1).
Project-financed investments would include materials for fencing and a
cattle shelter, small equipment and tools, seed and fertilizer for pasture
improvement, and feeder steers. Through improved management techniques and
rroject investments, participating farmers would diversify their farming
activities and integrate their agricultural and livestock production to the
benefit of both.
3.06      Private ranches would be developed in the northwest and on the
Adamaoua Plateau -- about 80 ranches along the ring road from Mbengwi through
Bamenda and Kumbo to Nkambe, and about 35 within about 40 km of Ngaoundere
(Map). The ranches would range fronm 100 to 750 ha, would be free of tsetse-
flies and would have a carrying capacity of at least one animal umit per
3 ha. Investments would include breeding stock and feeder steers, fencing,
watering and stock-handling facilities, dips, spray races, and small equipment
and tools (Models II and III, Annex 5, Tables 7 and 10). Participants would
be selected from among leaders of family grotps and would be representative
of a wide cross section of graziers. To ensure support for the credit scheme
and the prorosed innovations, some larger cattle owners and progressive tradi-
tional leaders wotild be encouraged to participate; also, since this would be
a pilot phase, participants would mostly be among the best graziers.



- 12 -
3.07      Credit Arrangements.  As FONADER has no branches in the project area
nor qualified credit staff, two livestock extension teams under SODEPA and
based in Ngaoundere and Bamenda would identify potential borrowers, carry out
technical evaluations for loan applications, and subsequently supervise the
borrowers. These teams would be supported by field staff of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Livestock. The SODEPA extension teams would inspect and
approve all livestock prior to purchase.
3.08      Credit Terms and Conditions.  FONADER would provide medium-term
loans for breeding stock and on-farm or ranch investments, and short-term
loans for feeder steers (Annex 5, Tables 2,5 and 8). Medium-term loans would
have a term of up to nine years with three years' grace for repayment of
principal. Short-term loans would be repaid within a year. All loans would
bear interest at 10 percent.  In accordance with FONADER's lending policy,
borrowers would provide 20 percent of the costs of items financed by the loans.
In addition, borrowers would have grazed their cattle in the area proposed
for development for about five years and would agree to reside on their ranch.
The terms and conditions for project loans have been agreed by Goverrment and
the Bank and will be included in the subsidiary loan agreements between Govern-
ment, FONADER, and sub-borrowers (para. 4.05).
3.09      Land Tenure.  Except for the mixed farmers, whose land rights would
already be well established in customary law, all other borrowers would be
required to obtain a 20-year leasehold for the land on which development would
be financed by loans. The title or certificate of occupancy for such land
would be granted by the Government to SODEPA, which would enter into a sub-
lease with the borrower (para. 2.13). Under the sub-lease, a borrower would
be required to follow the technical instructions of SODEPA's field staff and
to make prompt debt service payments to FONADER. Default on either requirement
would be grounds for termination of the sub-lease. Boundary surveys fcer each
leased property would be made by the Government's Survey Department, and the
borrower would meet the cost of the survey and pay a rent equivalent to CFAF
10/ha annually. The sub-lease would include provision for the compensation of
tenants in the event of premature eviction, transfer to another grazier, and -
an option to obtain title or a long term certificate of occupancy after 20
years. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that the
terns of the 20-year sub-leases provided by SODEPA would be satisfactory to
the Bank, and that its Survey Department would make the boundary surveys in
accordance with a program prepared by SODEPA.
Extermination of Tsetse-Flies
3.10      An area of about 800,000 ha, surroinding the Upper Faro and South
Vina Rivers (Map), fas been selected for tsetse-fly extermination. This area
has been abandoned progressively by cattle owners during the past 10 - 15
years in the wake of infestation by the savannah type tsetse flies (Glossina
morsitans) that now threaten the remaining fly-free areas of the Adamaoua
Plateau and East Cameroon (,ap, Annex 6, and para. 2.10-2.12).  After clear-
ance from tsetse-flies the area could provide suitable grazing for the herds
o Gf about 1,000 pastoral families.



- 13 -
3.11      Survev.  Extermination would be preceded by a survey to study the
distribution and behavior of the local tsetse-flies.  This is essential to
determine the optimum operational program in terms of efficiency and cost.
The survey, which would take two years, would be undertaken by an ecologist
employed and supported by the Ministry of Livestock. Draft terms of reference
for the ecologist are in the Appendix to Annex 6. Survey results would be
used by a consultant extermination specialist, also employed by the Ministrv,
to prepare a detailed plan of operations for an extermination campaign by the
end of Project Year 2 (PY2).
3.12      Extermination Campaign.  The campaign wouild begin in PY3, in accord-
ance with a plan of operations previously agreed with the Banl. Current ex-
perience in similar ecologies in Nigeria suggests that extermination by
aerial spraying would be the most apnropriate method.  Croumd spraying is
possible, but would not be feasible in Cameroon on a large scale until
sufficient trained and experienced spraving teams would be available.  Sub-
sequent extermination campaigns may involve more ground spraying using teams
trained under this project.  Extermination would probably be done by a unit
of two helicopters using an ultra-low-volume insecticide spraying technique.
It is estimated that about 10 rercent of the total area would need spraying
and that about 260,000 ha would be cleared each year in PY3, 4 and 5.  The
aerial spraying would be supported by a ground support tnit, comprising, a
veterinarian, five livestock assistants and twenty tsetse-fly surveyors as
well as unskilled labor.  The veterinarian would be the division chief of the
new tsetse-control division of the Ministry of Livestock (para. 3.03), and
would be trained, along with the five livestock assistants in tsetse-fly
survey and extermination activities during PY1 and 2.  Approrriate training
courses are run by the Nigerian Governnent's facilities in Kaduna, and thé
Cameroon Ministry of Livestock would arrange with the Nigerian Government for
project scaff to attend these courses. Tsetse-fly surveyors would receive
in-service training.
3.13      Protection of Tsetse-Fly Cleared Areas.  Protection against rein-
festation would be provided by a combination of natural and man-made barriers.
The latter would comprise clearing trees and bushes from a 2.5 km wide bound-
ary strip that would extend for 120 km. Unless Government continued extermina-
tion campaigns into adjacent infested areas, this botindarv would also need
fencing and four control posts for deflying animals entering cleared areas.
The tsetse-control division would be responsible for establishi'ng and main-
taining the barrier; annual maintenance costs are estimated at US$70,000
(Annex 6, Table 2).
3.14      It wouild be a condition of disbursement of loan funds for tsetse-
fly extermination that the Governnent and the Bank have agreed a detailed
plan of operations for the extermination campaign (para. 3.11) and a plan for
the effective usse and protection of the cleared areas (para. 3.13).  Consul-
tants would be financed under the project to assist Government prepare these
plans (para. 3.21). An assurance was obtained from Government that it would
provide the funds and support services to protect cleared areas from reinfesta-
tion.



- 14 -
SODEPA Ranches
3.15      SODEPA would establish and operate three 20,000-ha project ranches
(Annex 7), each carrying about 8,000 animal units. The ranches would be
located at Ndokayo in the east, Faro in the center, and Dumbo in the north-
west (Map). The sites are unsettled and only lightly grazed. Ndokayo
would be developed for fattening, and Faro and Dumbo for breeding and fatten-
ing. The extent to which these ranches would breed and fatten animals would
vary according to local livestock market conditions and the demand for breed-
ing stock generated by Government's cattle development programs. SODEPA
would be granted freehold title to the Ndokayo and Faro sites, and a certifi-
cate of 99-year occupancy for the Dumbo site (para. 2.13). Initially, demar-
cation would be by map reference; but after the completion of boundary fenc-
ing, a boundary survey and demarcation would be made by the Government's
Survey Department. Assurances vere obtained from Government that it would
provide SODEPA with title or certificate of occupancy for the land required
for the ranches.
3.16      capital investment would be mainly for tracks, fences, firebreaks,
stock-handling and watering facilities, dips, ranch buildings, vehicles,
equipment, foundation breeding stock, and initial feeder steer purchases.
The ranches would be stocked with local Zebu cattle, which are among the
best beef type in West and Central Africa. Altogether, about 11,600 breed-
ing heifers and 350 breeding bulls would be purchased in local markets over
the six-year project period, and there would be annual purchases of 4,000 -
6,000 feeder steers. None of these purchases would disrupt local supply
significantly, since about 240,000 breeding heifers and young steers are pro-
duced annually in the three areas. Production objectives would be achieved
by rotational grazing of natural pastures, fire control, feeding of mineral
supplements construction of watering points, good herd management and animal
health care, as well as tsetse-fly extermination.
3.17      The Dumbo ranch would be developed in PYI as, except possibly for
some small pockets on its western boundary, the site is free from tsetse-
flies. From present evidence of cattle and data from the Ministry of Live-
stock, the Ndokayo area is not subject to serious tsetse-fly infestation.
However, a survey would be made in PY 1 by the tsetse-fly ecologist (para.
3.11) to determine more precisely the degree and type of infestations and the
need if any for prophylactic treatments. Steer fattening would be feasible
even if limited prophylactic and curative treatments prove necessary. The
Ministry of Livestock would maintain contacts with the International Labora-
tory for Research on Animal Diseases in Nairobi to obtain the latest informa-
tion on drugs developed for this purpose (para. 2.11). The establishment of
a successful fattening ranch in the rich grassland savannah just north of the
forest zone would be significant for future West African livestock develop-
ment, as areas wîth similar ecologies could finish animals from the tradi-
tional livestock breeding areas of the Sahelian and Sudanian zones. The Faro
ranch would be started in PY4 as a follow-up to tsetse-fly extermination



- 15 -
(para. 3.12), and would produce the breeding animals that would be an essential
requirement of any development program for areas cleared from tsetse-flies.
Conditions of disbursement of Bank loan funds for the Ndokayo ranch would be
that the Government and Bank had agreed to proceed with the ranch following
review of the ecologist's survey, and for the Faro ranch that the plan of
operations for the tsetse-fly extermination campaign had been agreed by Gov-
ernment and the Bank (para. 3.14).
Meat-Processing and Retail Butcher Facilities
3.18    Slaughter Plants.  SODEPA would construct and operate the two new
slaughter plants at Douala and Yaounde to replace the existing municipal
abattoirs (para. 2.16). The two plants would be of identical design and have
a peak hourly capacity of 25 cattle and 25 small stock. Construction would
begin in P"1 and be completed in PY2. The plants would meet international
standards for hygiene; their main features would be a single-story building
with two kÎlling floors, on-the-rail dressing, a chilling room, and equipment
for treating effluent and for producing dry blood, hoof and horn meal, and
salted sausage casings for export. SODEPA would employ a firm of consultant
engineers to propose designs for the slaughter plants and prepare tender
documents for their construction. Details of the proposed plants are given
in Annex 8. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that
the two existing municipal facilities would be closed when the new slaughter
plants become operational, and that no slaughter would be licensed in Douala
and Yaounde outside the new plants, except with the agreement of SODEPA. An
assurance was also obtained from Government that the firm of consultant
engineers, its terms of reference and conditions of employment would be accept-
able to the Bank.
3.19      Retail Butcher Shops.  Twelve retail shops in Douala and Yaounde
would be modernized under the project to permit the hygienic handling through
retail for about 10 percent of the meat processed at the new plants. This
modernization would include basic building improvements and the provision of
refrigeration equipment and appropriate meat-cutting surfaces and equipment
(Annex 8, Table 1).   Credit to finance these improvements, would be financed
under the project. Loans from FONADER would be for four years and would bear
interest at 10 percent and borrowers would be required to make a 20 percent
down payment. To qualify for a loan, an applicant would have to reside in
Douala or Yaounde, have been a licensed butcher for about five years, and own
or lease a building suitable for modernizing. Butchers leasing their premises
would have to offer adequate alternative collateral; all applicants would need
references from a bank or a respected meat trader. The slaughter plant
managers would evaluate and supervise the FONADER loans. Butcher shop improve-
ment would be profitable under the free market prices that predominate for
retail meat sales. They would not be profitable, however, if official retail
prices were enforced. Therefore, it would be a condition of disbursement for
loan funds for butcher shop improvement that the Bank had approved the
criteria including those for prices assumed by FONADER for its estimate of
the profitability of butcher shop improvements.



- 16-
Training
3.20      SODEPA would run field days and demonstrations on its ranches for
pastoralists with emphasis on pasture management and animal health care, and
would provide in-service training for ranch and slaughter plant managers and
livestock extension staff. Tsetse-fly survey and extermination teams would
receive formal training (para 3.12) and in-service training under guidance
of the tsetse-fly ecologist and the extermination specialist. Additionally
12 man-years for overseas graduaté and postgraduate training in subjects for
which local educational institutions are inadequate would be provided. The
latter would include graduate courses in livestock production to train senior
extension staff, and appropriate training for livestock credit and tsetse-fly
survey and extermination specialists (para 5.08). No provision would be made
for training Cameroonians to be veterinarians as courses are being provided
under bilateral arrangements (para 2.20).
Project Preparation
3.21      During PY2 about 30 man-months of consultant services would be
provided for the project to assist Government prepare detailed plans for the
effective use of the areas cleared of tsetse-flies (para. 3.13). These plans
would be prepared in consultation with the tsetse-fly ecologist and the ex-
termination specialist (para. 3.11). The plans would include proposals for
the institutional arrangements needed for the administration of development
activities and essential services, the control of land redistribution, land-
use classification, and public sector and private sector investments. As the
plans would cover a broad range of activities for a large area, only skeletal
investment proposals would be included for the first-stage of development. In
addition to these proposals, the consultants would help Government prepare in-
vestment proposals for livestock development in other areas of the country,
including the expansion of credit facilities to livestock owners, and the con-
tinuation and expansion of the tsetse-fly extermination campaigns.
C. Ecology
3.22      The project would improve the ecology in two important ways.
First, the project's proposals for pasture management and tsetse-fly exter-
mination would lead to a reduction in overgrazing that is now destroy-
ing soil and pastures, particularly in the northwestern highlands and
East Cameroon; this would be one of the project's major but unquantifiable
benefits. Second, the existing unsanitary slaughter facilities in Douala and
Yaounde would be replaced by modern plants, eliminating the public health
hazards at existing facilities.



-17-
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01                    The total costs of the project for the six-year period, 1974-79, are
estimated at US$14.6 million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component
of UJS$7.4 million.  The costs are detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below.
soary of Pro.ect Cotte
CFAP Millioc                       05$ 000                           o~~~~~~~~~~~f Total Coat  I of F.rolgn
Lal   Foreign         Toal            Lcal          Fortian        Total            Sfr   otxacto                 Kcac
I.      Private Sector Devslov..ot
(a)  Privata Fama  ..d Ranch bêevloo.,anc
On ParM Icveatuenta                                       83.3           97.8          181.1         333.2           391.2         724.4                                              54
Livestock Pcrchauts                                       90.6             --          90.6          362.4            -           362.4 
Sc.b-total                                            173.9           97.8         271.7         695.6           391.2       1,086.8                     9                         36
<b>  Butcher Sho. Inv.st.aota                                     2.8           4.             6.9           11.0            16.6         27.6                                              60
(c)  L-.   Adsinistratiosc
V     hicles and Equip.ent                                  0.3           2.9            3.2            1.2           11.6          12.8                                              90
Expatriate Salarias                                         7.0          63.4           70.4          28.0           253.6         281.6                                               90
Working Capital                                            26.4           .26.4                      105.6            -           105.6
S.b-t.t.1                                              33.7          66.3          100.0          134.8          265.2         400.0                     3                         66
Total Private Sector                                           210.4          168.2          378.6         841.4           673.0      1,514.4                    1                          44
II.      SODEPA Raocba. end Slauehter PIacta
(a)  Readguartets
Equipuect and V.hicle.                                      0.7           6.3            7.0            2.8           25.2          28.0                                              90
Iiorbicg Capital                                           75.0          50.0          125.0         300.0           200.0         500.0                                              40
Excpatriata Salaries                                     -17.9          160.9         178.8           71.6           643.6        715.2                                              90
Suh-total                                            93.6          217.2          310.8         374.4           868.0      1,243.2                    1570
<b>   Ranch Dav*1opcect
I.frasît   tura                                           72.0           72.6         145.1          290.0           290.4        5880.4                                              50
Vehiecles, Eqoipaant and Fancing                            7.0          63.2           70.2          28.0           252.8        200.8                                               90
Liv.etock                                                649.5            -           649.5       2.598.0            .          2,598.0 
Sob-tota1                                           729.0          135.8          864.8       2,916.0           543.2      3,459.2                    29                         16
c)Slaccht.r Plcote                                          224.1         224.1          448.2         896.4           896.4    1.792.8                       1                         50
Total SODEPA                                                 1,044.7          577.1       1,623.8        4,186.8         2,308.4      6,495.0                                               36
tI.       T,atoe 0F1y  atîemicati.n
Land Claaring and Fencicg                                        19.7          78.9           98.6           78.8          315.6         394.4                                              80
Oprapiog                                                         51.4         462.4          513.8         205.5         1.849.7      2,055.2                                               90
Staff Slr.,Tr.ici,,8 and Op.rati.g C..t.                       I134.7          47.4          1~22.         439.0           231.1         '71).2                                             30
Vehiclea ancd tqoip.act                                           2.8          24.7           27.3           11.2            98.8        110.0                                              90
Cocnsîtacto                                                       2.0          17.7          19.7           0.0             70.8         78.8                                               90
Total T.etse Fly Exter.inatioc770                                             415             5. n,                      2,5o45.9     3,408.4                    29                         76
IV.      Training..                                                                                                                   Y.          200.0                     2                         0
V.      Proje.t Praparation Coca-1titàc.                                              52.v           1.0                                                                   2 1.I 21.    
Total Project Bafore ConticgenciasO                          1,467.7        l,480.8       2,91...5       5,d71.7        5,947.3    1.1,413.0                    100                         50
(a>   Special 86.6                                                7.6          68.6           76.2          30.4           274.4        304.8                     3                         90
(b>  Physical Co.tioge.cy   (5X cf Prc<ect cc,tF)               79.2           79.3         15.            317.0           317.0        $~34.0                    5                         50
(c)  Fri. Coctcgeocy(15,t of project cor's)             22t.9         226.9                                                                               1530 97c 07.   ,1.  ss
lob-Total Cocticiencies (23  o c   prc~ect           313.7          374.8          488.5       0,255.0         1,499.1    2,75L.0                      23                         94
Total Proiect Comte Aft.r  Contincanci.s                     1,781.4       1.861.6       3,643.0        7.125,7        7I,.    402051



- 18 -
4.02      Costs are based on 1974 prices and quotations from suppliers of
goods and services similar to those required for the project.  The estimates
include a 5 percent physical contingency for all project vehicles buildings,
and equipment; a 10 percent physical contingency for operating and maintenance
coasts; and a 15 percent physical contingency for the costs of the tsetse-fly
extermination component.  The latter contingency allowance is large as it is
not possible to estimate accurately the areas to be sprayed until the survey
described in paragraph 3.11 has been completed.  An additional contingency
of 15% is included for spraying mater als against the possibility of additional
spraying needs caused by irregular supplies of aviation fuels and pesticides.
Price contingencies have been calculated as follows: for civil works 12 per-
cent in 1974, 10 percent in 1975 and 8 percent in 1976-79; and for all other
project expenditures, 9 percent in 1976, 7 percent in 1975, and 5 percent
in 1976-79.  Costs exclude all import taxes; in the event that Government
would require such taxes to be paid on project items (in other Bank Group
projects import duties have been waived), additional costs would be met by
Government through an addition to its contribution to project financing.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The project financing plan is detailed in Annex 10 and summarized
below.
Farmers,
Butchers,
Cattle                                Percentage
Project Component         Owners   Government   Bank   Total   of Project Cost
US$ Million ----   Before Contingencies
Private Sector Develop-
ment                     0.2          0.1       1.2      1.5       12
SODEPA Ranches and
Slaughter Plants          -           1.3       5.2     6.5        55
Ministry of Livestock
Tsetse Extermination      -           1.0       2.4     3.4        29
Training                    -            -        0.2      0.2        2
Consultant Services         -            -        0.2      0.2        2
Contingencies               -           0.4       2.4      2.8       24
Total                 0.2         2.8       11.6    14.6



- 19 -
4.04      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$11.6 million, covering 80 per-
cent of project costs, be made to the Government of Cameroon for a term of
21 years, including a six-year grace period on repayment of principal.
US$7.4 million (64 percent of the loan) would cover project foreign exchange
costs, and the balance of US$4.2 million (36 percent of the loan) would
finance 58 percent of local currency costs. The remaining 42 percent of
local currency costs, totalling US$3.0 million, would be met from Government
budgetary allocations (US$2.8 million), and sub-borrowers (US$0.2 million).
About US$100,000 of the Bank loan would be used to cover, retroactively,
expatriate salaries incurred for project implementation between loan negotia-
tions and effectiveness. The Bank loan together with Government's contribu-
tion would be deployed as follows:
(a) CFAF 225 (US$0.9) million would be lent to FONADER for
15 years, including 6 years' grace on principal
repayment, and interest at 5 percent, for relending
to graziers, farmers, and butchers;
(b) CFAF 108 (US$0.4) million would be passed on as a grant
to FONADER to cover operating losses in years 1 to 3,
and the cost of expatriate salaries and vehicles for
two livestock extension teams who would be used by
FONADER to supervise loans to farmers and graziers;
(c) CFAF 1,500 (US$6.0) million would be lent to SODEPA
for development of three ranches and two slaughter plants.
The lending terms would be 21 years, with six years'
grace on principal repayment. Interest would be at the
same rate as the Bank loan and would be capitalized for
three years;
(d) CFAF 125 (US$0.5) million would be provided by Covernment
as equity in SODEPA and used to cover working capital
requirements;
(e) CFAF 852 (US$3.4) million would be provided in budgetary
allocations to the Ministry of Livestock in the form of
budgetary allocations to cover the costs of the tsetse-
fly survey and extermination campaign;
(f) CFAF 50 (US$0.2) million would be provided through
budgetary allocations to the Mînistry of Livestock to
finance the project training fund;
(g)  CFAF 50 (US$0.2) million would be provided through budgetary
allocations to the Ministry of Livestock to cover the cost
of consultant services for project preparation;
(h) CFAF 688 (US$2.8) million would be a contingency reserve.



- 20 -
4.05      Loans from FONADER to sub-borrowers would be at 10 percent, the
higher range of lending rates in Cameroon. The interest differential of
5 percent for FONADER would be required to cover credit administration costs
and allowance for bad debts. The Government grants to FONADER would cover
technical services to borrowers and the costs of these services ate normally
borne by Government and not by credit institutions. Draft subsidiary loan
agreements between Government and FONADER and Government and SODEPA were
agreed upon at negotiations and their signature would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. A further condition of effectiveness would be that Government
would have provided SODEPA with CFAF 50 million of its equity contribution.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that Government would provide
SODEPA with CFAF 50 million and CFAF 25 million of its equity contribution
within 12 and 18 months respectively of the signature of the Bank loan.
Assurances were also obtained that Government would make avialable to SODEPA,
FONADER, and the Ministry of Livestock all funds required for the project on
a tuarterly basis and in advance through payments into bank accounts operated
by SODEPA and FONADER and the Treasury account of the Ministry of Livestock.
Tlhe amounts involved would take account of the prefinancing needs of these
entities for project expenditures to be reimbursed under the loan.
C. Procurement
4.06      Contracts for all items in excess of US$50,000 wouid be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. International procurement would amount to about
US$4.4 million; land clearing and fencing US$0.2 million; buildings US$1.1
million; aerial spraying, insecticides and fuel US$1.9 million; and equipment
and vehicles US$1.1 million. Since slaughter plant construction requires
careful integration, the buildings and equipment would be procured under a
turnkey contract, amounting to about US$1.8 million.  This is the normal and
most effective procurement method for plants of the type proposed for this
project. Only domestic cattle would be required for the project and the only
practical means of purchasing these would be through negotiated contracts
with local traders; the value of such purchases wouid be about US$2.6 million,
or 22 percent of total Droject costs. As SODEPAts ranches would be developed
over four years, some ranch infrastructures, estimated to cost about US$0.3
million, would be constructed by force account.
4.07      Private farmers and cattle owners receiving loans from FONADER
would procure goods and services valued at US$1.1 million through commercial
channels. Other procurement for ranch infrastructure development and equip-
ment amounting to about US$0.3 million would be through locally advertised
bidding as contracts would be too small to attract international bidders and
bulk procurement would not be practicable as the orders would be irregular
and placed over a period of time. Internationally recruited staff and consult-
ants, estimated to cost US$ 1.3 million would be employed in accordance with
Drocedures acceptable to the Bank.



-21-
D. Disbursement
4.08      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 100 percent of payments by FONADER under sub-loans to butchers,
farmers, and cattle owners (representing 80 percent of the
investment cost of shop, farm and ranch development) - US$0.9
million ;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for SODEPA's expatriate
salaries; consultants for the tsetse-fly extermination com-
ponent and for project preparation; and overseas graduate
and post-graduate training - US$1.1 million;
(c)  100 percent of foreign  expenditures or 90 percent of total
expenditures for sparying, insecticides, fuels, vehicles and
equipment for the tsetse-fly extermination component; and
consultants, vehicle and equipment for loan administration
for FONADER - US$2.2 million;
(d) 90 percent of total expenditures for buildings, vehicles and
equipment, livestock and ranch infrastructure development
for SODEPA; and land clearing and fencing for the tsetse-fly
component', US$ 5 million.
US$2.4 million of the loan would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
A detailed disbursement schedule is in Annex 11. Disbursements against sub-
borrower loans for butchers, farmers and cattle owners would be made against
certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be
submitted for review, but would be retained by the borrower and available
for inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.09      FONADER would maintain separate accounts for loans made under the
project to butchers, farmers and cattle owners, including summaries of amounts
lent for different investment items. SODEPA would maintain separate accounts
and financial statements for the three ranches and two slaughter plants, as
well as consolidated accounts and, financial statements for all of SODEPA's
operations.  SODEPA's and FONADERS accounts would be subject to inspection
by a commission appointed by the National Assembly, and subject to audit
from time to time by the auditor general. The Ministry of Livestock would
maintain separate accounts for the project's tsetse-fly extermination component,
the training fund, and expenditures made for consultant services for project
preparation. Assurances were obtained from Government that accounts for the
Ministry of Livestock project expenditures would be subuitted to the Bank
within four months of the close of the financial year, and that it would
employ an independent firm of auditors, acceptable to the Govermnent and the



- 22 -
Bank, to audit FONADER and SODEPA project accounts, and that such audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later than four nonths after
the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
Ranching,Slaughter Plant and Credit Operations
5.01      Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions Animales
(SODEPA) would be established by decree as a Government owned parastatal company
responsible to the Ministry of Livestock. Its Board of Directors, appointed
by the Government, would be composed of representatives of the Ministries of
Livestock, Commerce and Industry, Planning, and Finance; FONADER represent-
atives of the livestock industry; and SODEPA's Director General,
5.02      SODEPA would be responsible for (a) developing and managing the `
three state ranches and two slaughter plants; (b) undertaking all technical
aspects of traditional sector development; (c) arranging competitive bidding
for all project procurement; and (d) coordinating and submitting quarterly
progress reports and annual accounts for`all project components to the Bank.
SODEPA would help the Ministries of Planning and Livestock to plan the develop-
ment of tsetse-cleared areas, and new investment proposals for traditional
sector development (para. 3.21).
5.03      A draft decree and description of SODEPA's responsibilities have
been approved by the Bank, and SODEPA would be represented at loan negotia-
tions. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that SODEPA had
appointed a director general, technical director, and financial controller
(para. 5.06).
5.04      SODEPA and FONADER would reach formal agreement on the procedures
to be followed in their joint management of the credit programs. The agree-
ment would set out their respective responsibilities for participant selection,
and loan appraisal and supervision. The arrangements for loan appraisal and
supervision will be included in the subsidiary loan agreements between FONADER
and Government and FONADER and its sub-borrowers described in para. 4.05.
Tsetse-Fly Extermination
5.05      The Ministry of Livestock would be responsible for implementing
the tsetse-fly extermination component of the project through the new divi-
sion that would be established by PY3 in its veterinary department. The
Ministry would be responsible for the appointment, direction and support of



- 23 -
all staff required for the tsetse-control division. The division chief would
be a Cameroonian veterinarian with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to Government and the Bank. The Director of Veterinary Services would select
the staff who would receive training in tsetse control (para. 3.12) and all
training would be in courses approved by the Bank.
B.  Staffing
5.06      As it is unlikely that qualified and experienced Cameroonians
would be available to fill all project posts, the following positions and
specialist assignments wuld probably be occupied initially by expatriates:
for SODEPA the technical director, financial controller, two slaughter plant
managers, three ranch managers, two livestock extension officers; for the
Ministry of Livestock, the tsetse-fly ecologist and extermination specialist,
and project preparation consultants; and for FONADER the agricultural credit
specialist. All appointments to these posts would be by persons with qualifi-
cations and experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
assurances were obtained from Governnent to this effect during loan negotia-
tions. The remaining project staff would be Cameroonians who either would be
serving with the Governnent or who would be recruited for the project.
5.07      As the expatriate staff would represent a variety of professional
skills that may present difficulties in recruitment, the Government plans to
employ a company to help it manage the project. FONADER intends to ask
CCCE 1/ for a credit specialist; this arrangement would meet project require-
ments. During negotiations assurances were obtained thatthe management
company, its terms of reference and conditions of employment would be accept-
able to the Bank.
C.  Training
5.08      Training Cameroonians would be an important responsibility of all
expatriate project staff. Cameroonians would not be appointed to project
positions as parallel counterparts to expatriates, but would occupy positions
with individual responsibilities. Those acquiring appropriate experience in
project implementation would be promoted to take over from expatriates; such
promotions would be discussed with the Bank at regular intervals during the
project period with the objective of replacing all expatriates by the end of
the project development period. Assurances to these effects were obtained
during negotiations. The project fund for overseas training would be con-
trolled by the Secretary General Ministry of Livestock, and nominations for
1/   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French public institution
providing soft loans to developing countries).



- 24 -
courses would be supported by FONADER and SODEPA where appropriate. An
assurance was be obtained also from Government during negotiations that it
would submit a program for using the training funds within 12 months of loan
signature, and that it would implement the program as approved by the Bank
as amended from time to time with the Bank' s agreement.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      Incremental production at full development (PY12) from the private
and state ranches and farms developed under the project would be 1,300 tons
of meat, 2,000 breeding heifers, 1,500 breeding bulls and 1,500 feeder steers
annually. In addition, restocking the area proposed for tsetse fly extermina-
tion would result in a minimum incremental production equivalent to 3,000
tons of beef annually by PY12. Total estimated incremental production would
represent an increase of about 10 percent over present domestic beef output.
Production estimates are based on a liveweight growth rate for steer fattening
of about 100 kilograms a year, and total output rates of 15 percent for cattle
herds in tsetse-fly cleared areas, and of between 21 and 35 percent for-
private and SODEPA's breeding/fattening ranches.
B. Prices
6.02      Livestock and meat prices used in project financial and economic
calculations reflect current prices and are a reasonable basis for project
projections. All cities and towns have published retail price controls for
meat. In Douala and Yaounde, controlled prices are CFAF 200/kg for meat
with bones and CFAF 250/kg for meat without bones. In practice, however,
since there are no standard cuts and purchase are made by sight rather than
weight, controls are easily circumvented. Wholesale carcass prices in 1973
were between CFAF 225 and 250/kg and retail prices about 25 percent above the
control prices. Further, retailers with cold storage facilities are unof-
ficially recognized to be exempt from controls. Government recognizes that
its price controls are ineffective and, if rigorously imposed at present
levels, would depress production. Nevertheless, it is politically difficult
for Government to remove price controls on meat, however inefficient they may
be, when prices in general are increasing so rapidly. Assurances were obtained
from Government however, that it would study its system of meat price regula-
tions, including the possibility of eliminating meat price controls in order
to ensure a satisfactory development of the livestock subsector, and that it
would agree with the Bank by the end of 1975 changes in the pricing system
based on the study's findings and on a timetable for their application.



- 25 -
C. Marketing
6.03      All livestock and meat marketing is in private hands, and is carried
out by a large number of established traders and butchers. Trading normally
takes place at simple primary or secondary markets attended by Goverrment
veterinary inspectors and tax collectors. Transactions are by negotiation
and animals are bought on sight rather than by weight. The principal move-
ment of animals is from central to southern Cameroon, and this involves about
100,000 head annually. About 85 percent of these animals are trekked on
the hoof on well-established stock routes; but with the opening of the last
section of the Yaounde Ngaoundere railway line in 1974, the transport by rail
is expected to increase. The existing network of markets and traders is rea-
sonably efficient and adequate to meet project needs.
D. Financial Results
6.04      Private Farmers and Cattle Graziers.  The rates of return on incre-
mental investments would be 23 percent for steer fattening by small-scale
farmers and about 16 percent for breeding/fattening herd development by trad-
itional graziers (Annex 5). All investments would be long maturing, and
cumulative cash flows after debt service would become positive between years
5 and 6 following the initial investments (Annex 5, Tables 2,5 and 8). Build-
ing a cattle herd is an attractive method of capital accumulation, and
therefore this cash flow pattern would not be a deterent as Most participants
would have alternative sources of income or savings that they would use to
cover these early cash flow deficits. Annual family net incomes after comple-
tion of debt repayments would provide satisfactory incentives ranging at full
development from US$ 250 for a small fattening operation to about US$7,000
for a 750 ha breeding/fattening ranch run by a large ffamily group. It is
estimated that per capita net cash incomes for families of participants would
be between US$100 and US$250 at full development, representing a trebling of
predevelopment incomes for most participants. However, as the project would
involve technical innovations, participants would face risks. These would be
greatest for steer fattening as either a 10 percent cost increase or benefit
decrease would reduce the rate of return by about 10 percentage points. Simi-
lar adverse events would reduce the rate of return for breeding/fattening herd
development by about 3 percentage points. While a combination of a 10 percent
increase in costs and 10 percent decrease in benefits would be unlikely, it
would reduce the rate of return for steer fattening to about 4 percent and
for fattening/breeding operations to 11 percent. Emphasis would be placed on
breeding/fattening development and only about 35 steer fattening operations
would be included as a sample to determine more accurately the risks involved.
6.05      FONADER'S cash flow for project credit activities is shown in Annex
5, Table 10. FONADER would be required to finance from its earnings all debt



- 26 -
service and loan administration costs except vehicles and expatriate salaries,
and operating losses in years 1 to 3, (para. 4.04b). Tlese expenditures and
losses would be met by Government grants.  FONADER cash flow would break even
after repayment of loan funds to the Government.
6.06      SODEPA's cash flow is shown in Annex 12.  The financial rates of
return would be 11% for breeding/fattening ranches, 17% for fattening ranches,
and 15% for slaughter plant investments. By PY21 SODEPA would have repaid
the Governïe-.t loan, and from PY6 wuld be able to pav 20% dividends on
Governmentts equity contribution, and accumulate about CFAF 900 (US$3.6)
million in net earnings, before taxes, from project activities. Either a
10 percent increase in costs or a 10 percent decrease in benefits would
reduce the rate of return for SODEPA's ranching operations to 9 percent, and
there is a risk that this may happen.  However the risk would be a reasonable
one for Government to take in view of the considerable benefits that livestock
prok l^zers would be expected to derive from experience gained from large scale
commercial ranch development. SODEPA's slaughter plants would face lower
financial risks and the rates of return is not expected to fall below 12
percent.
6.07      Government's cash flow is shown in Annex 13.  On the basis of
current cattle poll and marketing taxes as applied to incremental project
production, proposed project investments and the financial arrangements
described in para. 4.04, the Government's cash flow would have a cumulative
deficit of CFAF 1,340 (US$5.4) million by PY21, when repayment of the Bank
loan woulcl be completed. The main causes of the deficit would be expenditures
by the Ministry of Livestock on the tsetse-fly extermination campaign, staff
training and project preparation (CFAF 1,200 million) and its financing of
the livestock exz:ension service (CPAF 100 million). Such expenditures are
normally borne by Governments and are financed through general rather than
direct taxation. Consequently Government's situation in the light of this
project is acceptable as the deficit would finance activities that would
result in increased economic activity and thus higher general taxation
revenues. Government has not yet decided on SODEPA's tax status, however, as
SODEPA has a mandate for sponsoring livestock development, its profits could
be used for livestock development and thus reduce Government financing for
this purpose.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's principal economic benefits would be the incremental
beef and breeding stock production, of lesser significance would be the in-
creased value of cattle products handled by the Douala and Yaounde slaughter
plants and butcher shops. The overall economic rate of return on the project
is estimated at 13 percent. A 10 percent cost increase and a 10 percent bene-
fit reduction reduces the rate of return to 11 percent (Annex 14). A combina-
tion of these adverse events would reduce the rate of return to 9 percent.



- 27 -
In view of the pilot nature of the project, the risk from the possible
occurrence of this combination of events is acceptable. Should a decision
be made not to proceed with the tsetse-fly extermination campaign the project
rate of return would be 11 percent.
7.02      In addition to its direct benefits, the project would have wide-
spread and important unquantifïable benefits.  They would include (a) demon-
strating improved pasture and land management techniques to a wide cross sec-
tion of cattle producers; (b) training Cameroonians in livestock production
(c) introducing land tenure arrangements ta encourage nomadic and seminomadic
cattle owners to settle and raise their cattle more productively; (d) reducing
overgrazing in the only areas now free of tsetse-fly infestation; and (e)
improving meat quality in Cameroon's two largest cities.
7.03      Except for skeletal veterinary coverage, support services for live-
stock production have been neglected in Cameroon. The project would help,
therefore, to develop two new institutions; SODEPA to provide technical
services and FONADER to provide credit for private sector development under
the project. The project's dependence on these two new Government agencies
involves risks, but these are considered acceptabie. Moreover, in the absence
of tried alternatives, successful livestock development depends heavily upon
the creation of new support services.
7.04      Project financial and economic rates of return are calculated on
1974 market nrices and calculations for the major components are based on
the following: for traditional sector livestock dèvelopment, incremental
ranch, farm and loan administration expenditures and incremental ranch and
farm cattle sales (Annex 5); for SODEPA's new large scale ranches total costs
of ranch development and total cattle sales (Annex 7); and for tsetse-fly
extermination, the costs of extermination, stocking and maintaining livestock,
in the cleared areas and incremental livestock sales (Annex 6). The economic
rate of return calculation includes physical contingencies, but excludes
price contingencies.
7.05      The project would involve many innovations for animal production
and support services. Project components would be such that they could be
replicated or expanded as information becomes available and experience is
gained in devising the most efficient means of adapting modern techniques
to Cameroonian conditions.
7.06      The project would complement the work of the Government's animal
health services and would make better use of pasture and animal resources.
Without the management innovations, investments, services and policy changes
that would be introduced under the project, it is likely that beef cattle
production would stagnate or even decline as more grazing land would become
infested by tsetse-flies and the remaining fly free area would be
increasingly overgrazed.



- 28 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  the terms of 20 year leases issued by SODEPA would be satisfactory
to the Bank, and its Survey Department would make the boundary
surveys in accordance with a program to be prepared by SODEPA
(para 3.09);
(b)  it would provide the funds and support services to protect
the project cleared areas from reinfestation by tsetse flies
(para. 3.14);
(c)  it would provide SODEPA with a title or certificate of
occupancy for the land required for the ranches (para 3.15);
(d)  the two municipal slaughter facilities would be closed when
the new slaughter plants become operational, and no slaughter
would be licensed in Douala and Yaounde outside the new plants
wxcept with the agreement of SODEPA (para 3.18);
(e)  it would provide SODEPA with CFAF 50 million and CFAF 25
million of its equity contribution within 12 and 18 months
respectively of the signature of the Bank loan (para 4.05);
(f)  it would make available to SODEPA and FONADER in bank accounts
and to the Ministry of Livestock in a Treasury account, all
funds required for this project on a quarterly basis in advance
through payments into the accounts operated by the three
entities. The amounts would take account of the prefinancing
needs of these entities for project expenditures to be
reimbursed under the loan (para 4.05);
(g)  accounts for the Ministry of Livestock's project expenditures
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 4.11);
(h)  an independent firm of auditors, acceptable to the Bank,
would audit FONADER and SODEPA project accounts, and that
audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year (para.
4.11);
(i)  the Ministry of Livestock's tsetse-fly extermination
Division Chief would be a Cameroonian veterinarian with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to Government
and the Bank (para. 5.05);



- 29 -
(j)  the tsetse-fly ecologist, and consultants for project
preparation employed by the Ministry of Livestock; the
agricultural credit specialist for FONiADER, and the
Technical Director, financial controller, two slaughter
plant managers, three ranch managers, and two livestock
extension officers for SODEPA would have experience and
qualifications acceptable to Government and the Bank
(para. 5.06);
(k)  the management company, its terms of reference and condi-
tions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank
(para 5.07);
(1)  Government would discuss wîth the Bank promotions of
Cameroonians to take over from expatriates, submit a pro-
gram for using the training funds within 12 months of
loan signature, and lmplement the program as approved by
the Bank or as amended from tiîne to time with the Bank's
agreement (para 5.08);
(m)  it would study its system of meat price regulations,
including the possibility of eliminating meat price
controls in order to ensure a satisfactory development
of the livestock sub-sector; and it would agree with the
Bank by the end of 1975 changes in the pricing system
based on the study's findings and agree on a timetable
for their implementation (para. 6.02).
8.02      Retroactive financing is recommended, up to US$100,000 to cover
expenditures for salaries of expatriates employed for project implementation
between negotiations and effectiveness (para. 4.04).
8.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a) Government would have provided SODEPA with CFAF 50
million of the equity contribution (para. 4.05);
(b)  SODEPA's director general, technical director, and
financial controller would have been appointed
(para. 5.03); and
(c) the subsidiary loan agreements between Govermnent
and FONADER and Government and SODEPA had been signed
(para. 4.05).



- 30 -
8.04      Conditions of disbursement would be:
-()  ag,anst expenditures on tsetse-fly extermination that
a detailed plan of operations for the tsetse-fly
extermination campaign and the effective use and pro-
tection of the cleared areas, would have been agreed
by Government and the Bank (para. 3.14);
(b)  against expenditures for the development of the Ndokayo
ranch that Government and the Bank would have agreed to
proceed with the ranch following a review of the survey
to be undertaken by the tsetse-fly ecologist, and for
the Faro ranch that the plan of operations for the tsetse-
f ly extermination campaign would have been agreed by
Çovernment and the Bank (para. 3.17); and
(c)  against butcher shop improvement that the Bank had approved
the criteria including those for prices assumed by FONADER
for its estimate of the profitability of butcher shop improve-
ments (para. 3.19).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
14., for a Bank loan of US$11.6 million,



ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAME ROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Supply and Demand
A. Supply and Demand Present Situation
1.        Supply.  Annual offtake from the domestic herd for slaughter in
1969 was about 260,000 head equal to between 8 and 10 percent of the national
herd.  In addition to this offtake, an estimated 35,000 head of cattle im-
ported from Chad were slaughtered in Cameroon and total available beef
products from local and imported animals slaughtered in Cameroon were equiv-
alent to about 48,000 tons (Table 1). It is probable that by 1973 the beef
supply had increased to about 51,000 tons.
2.        Demand.  The consumption pattern for meat has two outstanding
characteristics. The first is that the South, which accounts for 45 percent
of total consumption (Table 1), has few cattle and 90 percent of its beef
requirements must be imported from the Central zone.  The second is that
annual per capita beef consumption in urban areas, 21.4 kg., is between 4
and 5 times that of rural areas, 4.8 kg (Table 2).
B. Supply and Demand Trends for Beef
3.        Supply. While there is little data on the rate of growth of the
national herd, Government regulations prohibiting the slaughter of breed-
able females make it unlikely that the herd is growing annually at less
than 1.5 percent and, on the basis of experience elsewhere in Africa, at
more than 3 percent. Without substantial investments to increase supplies
and without natural disasters that would kill a large part of the national
herd, it is reasonable to assume that the growth rate will be within this
range. The lowest estimate of 1985 beef supplies from domestic sources (full
development of the proposed project), assuming a 1973 national herd of 2.5
million head (para 1), an annual growth rate of 1.5 percent and offtake of
9 percent would be about 48,000 tons--equivalent to supplies from domestic
and imported cattle in 1969 (Table 3). The highest estimate of 1985 sup-
plies, assuming a national herd of 3.0 million head in 1973 and an annual
growth rate of 3 percent, would be about 69,000 tons (Table 3).
4.        Demand.  The main factors that will determine demand for beef
products include population growth, the rate of urbanization (para 2),
increases in real per capita income, and the price of beef. For present
projections, it is assumed that the only increases in real income will
occur for people moving from rural areas to urban employment.  It is also



ANNEX 1
Page 2
assumed that beef prices would not increase in real terms.  With these
assumptions, population growth and the rate of urbanization will be the main
factors that will determine future demand. Total population is growing at
about 2 percent per annum and the number of urban dwellers is increasing at
about 6.5 percent per annum. On the basis of annual total population growth
of 2 percent, an urbanization rate of 6 percent per annum for 1970-75 and
4 percent for 1975-85 (assuming government measures to control urban migra-
tion and a reduction in urban job opportunities) demand for beef could be
about 76,000 tons by 1985 (Table 4).
5.        Balance between Supply and Demand.  Annual market price increases
for beef and cattle over the last 2 years have been about 15 percent, sig-
nificantly above the general price trend for other foods of about 6 - 8
percent per annum. This price trend indicates a growing imbalance between
supply and demand and, without investments to expand supply, beef prices
are likely to continue to rise. Even taking account of possibilities for
protein substitution from small stock and fish, project induced beef pro-
duction will have an assured domestic market as projected deficits at cons-
tant prices would be between 8,000 and 28,000 tons by 1985.
C. External Factors Affecting the Beef Market in Cameroon
6.        Prices on the domestic market in Cameroon are influenced by
Cameroon's common bordera with six countries, all of which, except for
Chad, are normally beef deficit countries. Future import from Chad have
been threatened by droughts over the last 4 years, reinforcing the need for
Cameroon to increase domestic production. While Cameroon is a net importer
of livestock, it is a net exporter of beef. Private ranching and slaughter
companies have established markets for between 1,000 and 1,500 tons of beef
exports annually in Gabon and Congo where prices are higher than in Cameroon, and
and these markets are likely to expand and, with the Nigerian market that now
requires about 300,000 imported animals annually, will provide competition
for Cameroon's domestic market. At present, wholesale and retail prices in
Cameroon are significantly below those in Nigeria, Gabon and Congo (wholesale
prices in Lagos in the dry season average CFAF 350/kg carcass meat compared
to a Douala price of about CFAF 225-250/kg carcass meat cdw). It ïs likely
that prices in Cameroon will move closer to those of Nigeria, which is the
largest market in the region.
D. Price Assumptions for Project Financial and Economic Calculations
7.        Since livestock move freely across international borders and meat is
exported to neighboring countries, market prices provide a reasonable estimate
of the financial and economic value of beef and livestock in Cameroon. The
prices used in this report for livestock and meat are based on Ministry of



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Livestock records of transactions in official markets in Central Cameroon for
1971 and 1972, field observations of livestock market prices in 1973, and on
prices for animals and cattle products at the Douala and Yaounde markets in
1973. Current breeding cattle prices probably underestimate their relative
value, but it is not possible to predict how these may change in future, and
therefore market prices are used in all project calculations.






ANNEX -,
Table 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Suiply and Demand
Cattle Slaughter and Neat Production by Zones (1969)
No. of Animals --         Tons----------
(1000)        Meat    Offal    Total
NORTHERN ZONE
Offtake from Local Cattle         100.0          10,000   2,500   12,550
Imported Cattle Y                  35.0           5,250   1,312    6,562
Less Exported Meat                5.5             617      97      714
Net Available for Local
Consumption                     130.0          14,633   3,715   18,348
CENTRAL ZONE
Offtake froi Local Cattle         146.o          22,430   5,600   28,030
Less Exported (on Foot) 3/       90.5          15,025   3,755   18,780
Less Exported (Carcass) b/        5.4             -       -       1,350
Net Available for Local
Consumption                      50.1             -       -      7.,930
SOUTHERN ZONE
Offtake from local Cattle          13.0           1,583     395    1,980
Imported Animals  /              93.2          15,345   3,835   19,180
Imported Meat                                     -       -         813
Net Available for Local
Consumption                                       -       -     21,973
TOTÂL                                                              48,251
g/ SEDES, Approvisionnement en Viandes de l'Afrique Centrale, Paris
1971.
2/ From Chad.
3/ To Southern Cameroon.
>4/ To Southern Cameroon, Gabon and Congo.
F Prom Central Cameroon.



ANNE 1
Table 2
GAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Supply and Denand
Beef Consumption Fer Capita and Total Consumption by Zones (1969)
Total
North Adamaoua Northwest South Cameroon
Urban DweUers -
Average Per Capita (kg)     33.5    39.3        30.0   18.6    21.0
Raral Dwellers -
Average Fer Capita (kg)     12.0    14.8         2.7     1.0      4.8
Average Per Capita (kg)     13.8    19.3         4.4    6.3       8.4
Total Consumption
(tons 000)               18.3      5.0        2.9    22.0    48.2
=                      - - - 
v  SEDES, Approvisionnement en Viandes de l.Afrique Centrale, Paris
1971.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef SU§ply and DemaId
Supply Projection
1.        Low Estimate for 1985
Present Herd Si.e                                   2.5 million head
Growth Rate 1.5 percent x 12 years                  3.0 million head
Offtake at 10 percent                               0.3 million head
Meat and Edible Offal at 162kg/head      =          48,600 tons
2.        High Estimate for 1985
Present Herd Size                                   3.0 million head
Growth Rate 3 percent x 12 years                    4.28 million head
Offtake at 10 percent                    -          0.43 million head
Meat and Edible Offal at 162kg/head                 69,300 tons



ANNEZ i
Table 4
CaUEROON
,IIvTOc  PROJF
Beef Supply and Demand
Demand Projections
A. Population Projections
1970            1985
1/
Urban Population                            1,200,000        2,>400,000
Rural Population                            4,600,000       5,400,000
.2/
Total                                     5,800,000        7,800,000
B. Beef Consumption
1970 (tons)     1985 (tons)
Urban at 21 kg/per capita                    25,200           50o4,00
Rural Population 4.8 kg/per capita           23,000           26,000
Total                                      48,200           76,,400
1/ Growth rate 1970-75, 6 percent per annum; 1975-85, 4 percent per
annum.
g,/ Growth rate 1970-85, 1 percent per annum.
3/ Growth rate 1970-85, 2 percent per annum.
>4 Table 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The Livestock Subsector
A. Background
1.        Cameroon has a livestock population estimated at 2.5 - 3 million
cattle, 3 million sheep and goats, 0.5 million pigs and 8 million poultry.
Of the total land area (475,000 sq km), about 160,000 sq km, or about 30
percent, are devoted exclusively to livestock production. The country's
ecoclimatic conditions--ranging from the Sahelian and Soudanian plains
in the north, the Adamaoua Plateau in the center, the mountain chains in
the west and the tropical forest in the south -- are reflected in a large
diversity of agricultural and livestock production systems and offer many
possibilities for stratification and further diversification of farming and
stock-breeding.
2.        Livestock production and crop farming are almost completely
separate. More intensive sedentary animal production is at only a very
early stage. There is no land ownership and communal grazing results in
a disregard for pasture management. Individual herds are generally divided
into: a milk herd that grazes close to the pastoralist's homestead; a
breeding herd comprising selected bulls and cows; and a fattening herd
consisting of steers and cull animals. Most of the herds are owned by
Foulbe and M'bororo, who comprise the majority of the Fulani ethnic group
in Cameroon.
3.        The M'bororo, about 100,000 strong and possessing almost one-third
of the national cattle herd, graze their cattle mostly in the Adamaoua
Plateau around Meiganga, Banyo and Tibati, in the northwestern highlands,
and in northern Cameroon around Mora and in the southeastern portion of the
departments of Diamara and Benoue. Seasonal transhumance and migrations
over a period of five to ten years are carried out within Cameroon; there
are also migrations lasting several decades between Nigeria, Cameroon, CAR
and Chad. Few M'bororo are settled, and most of their cattle belong to
families of 10 - 100 persons in herds of 100 - 500 animals. The herds are
not managed for commercial production; they are kept as a source of food
and as a symbol of wealth. Milk forms a high proportion of the diet of
nomadic families and milk sales guarantee their livelihood. Cattle are
rarely marketed and the prime management aim is to build up as large a
herd as possible.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The Foulbe are mostly settled.  During the dry season they graze
their cattle in lower-lying, usually tsetse-fly infested areas, and drive
them near their villages at the beginning of the rainy season. The Foulbe
are starting to exploit their cattle commercially because of increasing
cattle prices and also because they are acquiring a desire for consumer goods.
5.        With the exception of about a thousand N'Dama cattle in the
southeast of the country, all cattle are Zebu. There are two different
breeds:
(a) the Zebu Foulbe of Adamaoua (Goudali), the best breed in
Western and Central Africa. The carcass weight of adult
bulls and oxen averages 220 kg, and carcass weights of
300 - 350 kg are common; and
(b) the Zebu M'bororo, with taller stature and a larger skeleton,
which has a good slaughter value but lower than that of the
Zebu Foulbe.
6.        The annual production of carcass meat per head of cattle --
around 15 kg in the North and up to 20 kg in Central Cameroon -- is low
when compared with 70 - 80 kg in countries with modern livestock sectors
and the 40 kg obtained on some of the foreign-owned ranches in the Adamaoua
Plateau. Meat production from sheep and goats is likewise low. Thus, in
principle, there is a large potential for increasing meat production from
the existing herds. However, the stress placed on the animals by nomadism
and transhumance and the problems they cause in maintaining a satisfactory
level of animal health restrict herd productivity. Furthermore, deficien-
cies in both the quantity and quality of nutrition, especially during the
dry season when cattle usually lose 10 - 20% of liveweight, are severe
restraints to cattle raising. The relatively poor animal health situation
(section C) and the extensive milking of cows for human consumption con-
tribute to the low production coefficients of the traditional herd: 40%
calving rate; 20% calf mortality rate; 6% adult mortality rate; 9% off-take
rate; slow growth rates; and a herd increase at about 1.5% annually.
B.  Support Services for Animal Production
Ministry of Livestock
7.        The Ministry of Livestock has four divisions:  animal health,
animal production, training and research, and sea fisheries.
8.        The animal health division provides free vaccinations and treat-
ment. Sixteen veterinarians, about 65 veterinarian assistants, 110 animal
health assistants and 70 inoculators direct and administer all animal health



ANNEX 2
Page 3
operations on a central, provincial or district level. The main staff
shortages are field veterinarians; as a result, subordinate staff lack
close supervision. This is evident in the Adamaoua Plateau, where only
two veterinarians are responsible for health services for about 1.2 million
cattle. In 1972 CFAF 50 million, about CFAF 20 per animal, -- was allo-
cated for disease control, of which CFAF 40 million was used for the control
of trypanosomiasis, blackleg and haemorrhagic septicaemia in Adamaoua alone
to protect less than half of the country's cattle population. The efficiency
of the division could be improved significantly by increasing the number of
field veterinarians and funds for vaccines, drugs and transport.
9.        The animal production division was created in 1973, with respon-
sibility for animal production, marketing, processing and extension services.
In East Cameroon, apart from recent efforts undertaken by the Wakwa station,
livestock extension services are practically non-existent. In northwest
Cameroon a farmer/grazier service has been operating for several years,
comprising about 30 veterinary and agricultural assistants whose primary
work has been to issue grazing permits; but even here, animal production
extension work should be regarded as very limited.
Training
10.       Veterinarians receive their training abroad -- mainly in Belgium,
France and the USSR, and starting next year, also in Dakar, Senegal. At
least two veterinarians are expected to return to Cameroon during each of
the next five years and Governient has already taken steps to increase train-
ing to meet Cameroon's need for veterinarians. Training for veterinary and
animal health assistants is provided at the Centre National de Formation
Zootechnique et Veterinaire (CNFZV) in Maroua, which turns out about ten
veterinary assistants every three years and about 20 animal health assistants
every second year. Government is planning to increase the output of Maroua
to meet Cameroon's growing requirements for veterinary and animal health
assistants. Until recently, training in animal husbandry has been neglected;
only 2-5 agricultural technicians per year specialize in livestock production
at the Agricultural College at Dschang. Starting next year, however, the
animal husbandry department of the Agricultural High School at N'Kolbisson
intends to offer a one-year post-graduate specialization course for agronomists
on its two pilot farms.  But apart from the foreign-awned ranches there is
very little opportunity in Cameroon for obtaining practical experience
and training in commercial cattle production. The Government is fully
aware of this situation and attaches great importance to the practical
training that would be provided under the proposed project.
Research
11.       Research in animal production -- including crossbreeding of
local Zebus with Brahmans and French beef breeds, pasture improvement,
bush control, fodder production and supplementary feeding -- is carried out
by the two experimental stations, Wakwa (Adamaoua Province) and Bambui



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(Northwest Province). Some research in milk production with Brown Swiss
and N'Dama, as well as in the fattening of local cattle and small stock,
is also being carried out by the Agricultural High School at N'Kolbisson.
The Bafut and Djohong missionary training centers have undertaken some
interesting trials on pasture improvement and fodder cultivation, including
cultivation of stylosanthes and eradication of bracken. However, although
much of this research and trial vork is of a high standard, so far it has
had no impact on the country's livestock industry.
C. Cattle Health Situation
12.       Despite the fact that the animal health service increased annual
preventive and curative inoculations from 750,000 to 1.5 million between
1965 and 1972 and despite their having successfully kept Central Cameroon
free of pleuropneumonia (by slaughter of infected herds), cattle mortality
rates are high everywhere except in the northwestern highlands. Adult cattle
mortality is reported to be more than 6 percent -  almost twice as high as
in Niger and Chad, for example. Moreover, calving percentages are particularly
low, usually being not more than 40 percent. This results from a combination
of the effects of brucellosis and trypanosomiasis as well as mineral defici-
encies and poor herd management (insufficient culling of infertile cows).
13.       Trypanosomiasis is widespread and with malnutrition, is the main
constraint to the development of Cameroon's cattle industry (Map No. 10585,
paras 2.10 - 2.12, and Annex 6). Rinderpest,was eradicated during 1961-64
and has not reappeared even though no preventive measures have been carried
out since that time. Without preventive measures the risk of renewed out-
breaks is high. Central Cameroon is free of CBPP (Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia), but the disease is endemic in the northern part of the
country and, although only a few cattle succumb to it, the rate of chronic
CBPP infection is reportedly high and the disease will remain a serious
potential danger as long as there are enzootic areas, uncontrolled cattle
movements and unwillingness on the part of cattle owners to report outbreaks.
CBPP can be combatted through yearly vaccination. Streptothricosis is
widespread, exceeding 10 percent incidence in higher'rainfall areas. There
is no proven, cheap treatment; control is through regular dippîng or spray-
ing with insecticides and, if necessary, quaternary ammonium or arsenic
rugs and heavy, costly doses of penicillin and streptomycin. Promising
work on a vaccine is being done by the Farcha Laboratory at Fort Lamy,
Chad. Brucellosis probably is a contributory cause of the low reproduction
rate of the national herd. Tuberculosis seems to be increasing, in the
Northwest and in East Admaoua. Up to 10 percent of the cattle în those
areas may be infected, but although it is responsible for partial carcass
contamination, the disease does not pose a serious threat to.production.
Blackleg and haemorrhagic septicaemia incidence is high, mainly in the
higher raînfall areas; anthrax is less common. Outbreaks of these three



ANNEX 2
Page 5
diseases are generally sporadic and all three can be combated with appro-
priate vaccines. Cattle ticks are widespread but the native stock are
relatively immune to tick-borne diseases, such as anaplasmosis, piroplasmosis
and rickettsiosis. Foot-and-mouth disease occurs from time to time but in
a fairly mild form.
14.       Internal parasitism -  mainly strongylosis, fasciolasis and
coccidiosis - represents a major constraint to animal production, causing
a high proportion of deaths among young stock and poor weight gains. At
present very little control is practiced. Development of the cattle in-
dustry vill require adequate control measures with relevant drugs.
15.       In summary, all of the major cattle diseases that are responsible
for economic loss are present in Cameroon, but they are all controllable
through modern techniques.
D.  Animal Production in the Three Livestock Zones of the Country
Northern Zone
16.       This zone consists of the plains north of the Adamaoua Plateau,
with altitudes varying around 200 m, and the Mandala highlands in the west.
It covers about 100,000 sq km, or one-fifth of the country's land area, and
supports about 24 percent of the total population. The ecology of this
zone is Sahelian in the north and Sudanian in the south and western high-
lands. The region is not self-sufficient in meat supply. Whereas ouly a
few cattle are exported to Nigeria, it has been estimated that 35,000 cattle
and 5,000 sheep are imported annually from Chad.
17.       The cattle population in the northern zone is believed to exceed
900,000 head. In addition there are about 1.8 million sheep and goats -
almost two-thirds of the country's small ruminant herd -- as vell as about
15,000 horses and 40,000 donkeys. Nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralism
predominates, carried out by M'bororo and Foulbe, respectively. Almost
one-third of the cattle is sedentary, kept by smallholders who cultivate
2 - 3 ha. At the end of the dry season cattle feed mainly from crop residues.
During the past decade the use of draft oxen has undergone a remarkable ex-
pansion. About 30,000 oxen are kept and are used mainly in cotton culti-
vation.
18.       With the region's cattle herd growing by about 1.5 percent a
year and with crop farming expanding more and more, the livestock population
in many parts of the region is in danger of exceeding the carrying capacity
of the rangeland, which covers about 3 million ha with an average stocking
rate estimated at 4 - 5 ha per animal unit. Thus the region cannot support



ANNEX 2
Page 6
more than about 600,000 well-fed animal units, and probably much less, since
about half of the rangeland is infested with tsetse flies (Map 10585) and
therefore is in part avoided by the graziers. Moreover, the infested
pastures, situated along the Logone and Chari Rivers and in the southern
Sudanian savannah, have the highest grazing potential in the region. How-
ever, the livestock nuzbers - roughly one million animal units - are
much greater than the above-mentioned 600,000 and in many areas excessive
numbers already have resulted in overgrazing.
The Céntral Zone
19.       This zone consists of the 64,000 sq km volcanic Adamaoua Plateau in
its eastern and central part and the 18,000 sq km mountainous highlands of
northwestern Cameroon. It comprises more than one-sixth of the country
and is the main cattle-raising area, with still vast meat production poten-
tialities on its amplé and partly under-stocked pastures. It has about 55
percent of the country's beef cattle and produces 30,000 - 35,000 tons of
carcass meat and offal, or a surplus of about 20,000 tons. This central
zone has the best prospects for satisfying the rapidly increasing demand
for meat in southern Cameroon.
20.       The Admaoua Plateau lies at an altitude averaging 1,100 m, with
mountains reaching 1,700 m.  The climate is cool and dry.  Yearly rainfall
is 1,400 - 1,600 mn, half of which falls from July to September. Above,
1,400 m, only grass savannah subsists, but below that altitude shrub and
tree savannah predominates. Pastures are dominated by Hyparrhenia, Bracharia
and Andropogon sp. and have a carrying capacity estimated at 3 - 5 ha per
animal unit. The rangeland has been exploited by nomadic and semi-nomadic
Foulbe herds since their arrival on the plateau in the 18th century and by
nomadic M'bororo cattle. Because of uncontrolled burning and over-stocking,
pastures have been increasingly replaced by shrub and bush.
21.       There are about 250,000 people in the area, which gives a popula-
tion density averaging only 4.0 inhabitants per sq km. The only important
town is Ngaoundere, with about 22,000 inhabitants. There are four small
towns and more than half of the villages have less than 100 inhabitants.
The population is unevenly distributed and large areas are unpopulated.
Farming activities are subordinate to cattle raising.
22.       The cattle population is estimated at 1.2 million, or about half
of the national herd; there are only about 40,000 goats and 30,000 sheep.
About 800,000 or two-thirds of the cattle live in the eastern part of the
plateau, wliile the remaining one-third graze in the western half. The
presence of tsetse flies is the reason why pastoralists avoid this area
and prefer grazing their herds in the over-stocked eastern part of Adamaoua
(paras 2.10 - 2.12 of main report and Annex 6).



ANNEX 2
Page 7
23.       rwo private French enterprises, one with about 20,000 and the
other with 8,000 cattle, have practiced extensive breeding/fattening
ranching about 75 km east of Ngaoundere for more than twenty years. Few
on-ranch investments have been made and the annual running costs per animal
amount to only CFAF 2,500 - 3,000. The activities of these two enterprises
are directed more toward the marketing of meat than to its production. Both
enterprises own slaughter installations and cold-storage facilities in
Ngaoundere and air-freight 1,000 - 1,500 tons of meat annually to Yaounde,
Douala and four Central African countries. Through the application of
modern production techniques including good herd and grazing management
and animal health care, the two ranches have had considerable success despite
their modest investments and exert a strong influence on neighboring activities.
Many cattle owners, some of whom formerly served as herdsmen at the ranches and
now live in their vicinity, are adopting improved techniques.
24.       As the Adamaoua Plateau has a high potential for livestock develop-
ment, the measures set out in order of priority below, should be undertaken
to exploit this resource more effectively.
25.       Tsetse-Fly Extermination.  The need to reclaim the tsetse-fly in-
fested areas for additonal grazing has been explained in paragraphs 2.10 -
2.12 of the main report and in Annex 6.
26.       Controlled Grazing and Burning.  The Wakwa research station has
demonstrated that through controlled grazing and burning, the carrying
capacity of the area's natural rangeland could be doubled, to one animal
on 1.5 - 2.0 ha. There are two possibilities for reaching this goal in
the traditional livestock sector: allocation of land to livestock owners
so that the balancing of their stock numbers with the existing carrying
capacity of their rangeland, as well as controlled burning, would be in
their own interest; and stock limitation through quotas allocated by the
Government or a parastatal authority, and including strict fire control.
Since the Adamaoua Plateau has relatively high-quality pastures, allocation
of land seems to be technically feasible. The initial effort in this
direction would be through the traditional sector credit scheme to be
implemented under the proposed project in the Dibi and Tourningal/Belel
areas (paras 3.04 - 3.09 main report and Annex 5). The Government should
also make a great effort to expand the measures for stock limitation and
fire control. Controlled land/water development and use, with the objective
of maintaining environmental stability, should begin in the area surrounding
the Upper Faro and Southern Vina Rivers, scheduled to be cleared of tsetse
flies under the project (Annex 6).
27.       The northwestern highlands, 18,000 sq km in area, comprise a
generally very hilly plateau (1,000 - 2,300 m altitude). The climate is
unusually cool for Western Africa and the average rainfall is high -- in
Bamenda, for example, about 2,700 mm per year. Most of the area is covered
with grassland, which occurs either as Grass Savannah, occupying the High



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Lava Plateau, or as a grass layer of the lower-altitude tree and shrub
savannah.  Forested peaks, valleys and steep slopes have only minor im-
portance. The grass communities are dominated by four Hyparrhenia species.
Overgrazing and cattle trampling do not alter Hyparrhenia dominance below
1,600 m, but under these conditions it is replaced by Sporobulus africanus
above this altitude.  Sporobulus pasture, which is three to five times legs
productive than Hyparrhenia grassland, is increasing rapidly, indicating
the pressure on grazing-ground in the area. Burning and overgrazing may
be responsible for the spread of bracken (Pteridium aquilium), which
dominates in some large areas.  There is promise for pasture iirprovement,
as Kikuyu grass flourishes and indigenous clovers are found in the grass
sward.
28.       With a population estimated at 500,000, the areats population
density of 28 persons per sq km is relatively high for Cameroon, although low
in comparison with other African regions. Along the Ring Road, land pressure
is already becoming an acute problem., Isolation, rugged topography, a less
pleasant climate, malaria and tsetse flies have all contributed to this
concentration, which has led to large tracts of land -- particularly in the
north -- becoming virtually uninhabited. Almost all of the pastures that
are free of tsetse flies are grazed by nomadic M'bororo herds originating
mainly from Nigeria; their owners seem to be regarded as foreigners by the
resident population.
29.       The highlands are very suitable for cattle raising.  The
climate is good and the area vell watered. There is no danger of trypanoso-
miasis and ticks are less prevalent than elsewhere. Grassland, with a long-
growing capacity of eight to nine months per year, has a high stocking rate
of 2 - 5 ha per animal unit. There are about 300,000 cattle, mostly M'Bororo
Zebu. With rigged topography, leached soils, and poor approach roads and
tracks, most parts of these highlands are better suited for livestock rearing
than for cropping.
30.       The bulk of agricultural activity is done by smallholders, located
mainly along the Ring Road and cultivating 1 - 5 ha. The potential for
mixed farming is good; some initial attempts to integrate livestock
production and agriculture have already been made, either by farmers raising
or fattening some cattle with crop residues and on adjacent grassland, or
by graziers cultivating small plots in the traditional pasture area. A
Dutch mission at Mfonta is carrying out a small project to promote mixed
farming; it provides credit and supervision for vegetable growing, poultry
production and steer fattening.
31.       The rapid expansion of crops into traditional grazing land is
leading to increasing friction between farmers and graziers. The former
West Cameroon State tried to control farming and grazing by enacting a law
in 1962 which stipulates that farmers who wish to cultivate traditional
rangeland must obtain permission from the Livestock Service and that graziers
must obtain grazing permits. Although the application of this law has brought



ANNEX 2
Page 9
some relief, it is becoming ever more necessary to carry out land use
planning for the region as well as a land reform that will allow individual
ownership and also give graziers land titles. Apart from developing mixed
farming and private small ranches, the credit program for the region's
traditional sector that would be carried out under the proposed project
(paras 3.04 - 3.09 and Annex 5) is believed to represent an important step
toward introducing such an improved land-tenure system.
The Southern Zone
32.       This flat Guinean and rain forest zone, comprising two-thirds of
the country's land area, supports about 60 percent of the total population,
engaged primarily in agriculture or settled in towns. While the production
of pigs, poultry and goats is common, cattle breeding has not yet been
developed and only 5 percent of Camerooa's beef cattle live in the southern
zone, mainly in the Kette and Garoua Boulai districts and an area between
Bertoua and Batouri. These areas are from 500 to 900 m high and have good
water supplies. Annual rainfall averages 1,500-1,800 mm' and temperatures
are normally about 24 C.
33.       Relatively narrow gallery forests furrow the grasslanc savannah,
in which Hyparrhenia, Bracharia, Andropogon and Panicum sp. dominate.
Possible stocking rates are estimated at 2 - 3 ha per animal unit, and
pasture quality is good for nine to ten months of the year. Trypanosomiasis
is the principal constraint to cattle herds using the excellent grazing-
grounds permanently.
34.       There are permanently about 100,000 cattle, 35,000 sheep and 30,000
goats in the southern zone, and in addition about 100,000 cattle from the
Adamaoua Plateau and CAR come on transhuimance in December and January. Only
20 - 25 percent of the pasture land is grazed. Since it is unlikely that
tsetse-fly extermination could be done economically (Annex 6), animal
husbandry will have to live with the probable light risk from less dangerous
riverine and forest tsetse flies, and trypanosomiasis will have to be kept
in check through constant surveillance and appropriate therapeutic support.
The technical feasibility and economic viability of large cattle projects in
such areas have not yet been proven, and the Ndokayo ranch, to be established
under the project, would introduce techniques of animal husbandry that will
allow this unused grasslands to be exploited.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Credit Arrangements
1.        Within the project, FONADER would be responsible for loans to
farmers, cattle owners, and butchers. FONADER has no branches in the
project's livestock production areas. However, commercial banks whose
branches cover these areas (SCB and BICIC) have agreed to assist FONADER
by disbursing loans and receiving loan repayments. Similarly SODEPA,
through its livestock extension teams, based in Bamenda (Northwest Cameroon)
and Ngaoundere (Adamaoua Highlands), would give FONADER technical aàsistance
for loan appraisal and supervision. FONADER would reimburse SODEPA for
these services.
2.        At present, FONADER's agricultural credit department has no loan
committee, no director in post and, except for a technical advisor seconded
by CCCE and one clerk-secretary, no other staff. For the proposed project
and to meet future development requirements, this department would be
strengthened. The agricultural loan committee would be established and the
director already appointed would take up his appointment. Initially, the
department would be staffed by the director, the technical advisor, and two
clerks. The credit adviser would be recruited internationally and all other
staff would be local.
3.        FONADER's responsibilities for project credit are shown in Table 1.
Its agricultLral credit department would handle credit worthiness examina-
tions, loan committee action, credit documents, disbursement orders, follow-
up of credit repayment including action against defaulters. Records would
be kept by FONADER of all applicatiqns together with complete borrowers' files
including promissory notes, loan agreements, guarantees, and credit records
(permanent inventory, loan maturity date book, borrowers' credit accounts).
Accounts would be classified according to: (a) the terms of the loan (short,
medium); (b) the fiscal year during which the loan is paid out; (c) the ma-
turity date of the loan (short term) or installments (medium term) giving
at any time the portfolio averdue and the portfolio not yet due; and (d) the
branch through which loans are disbursed. FONADER's computerized accounting
system would meet these requirements, and these accounts together with the
applications register and the maturity date book would give all data necessary
to prepare quarterly progress reports.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Criteria for Private Ranch Development and Mixed Farm Loans.  To be
eligible for a loan for livestock development borrowers would meet the following
criteria: (a) reside in a location selected by SODEPA for traditional sector
development; (b) have been a resident at the location where development is
proposed for at least 5 years; and (c) have a lease from SODEPA for their land
or, in the case of small mixed farms, have their claims to usufruct rights
supported by the local chief and prefect.
5.        Criteria for Butchers Loans.  Butchers would live in Douala or
Yaounde.  They would ozn or have at least a 5 year lease to a building with
solid walls suitably located for the retail butcher trade, and have been a
licensed butcher for 5 years. If a butcher leases his premises he would
offer adequate security and all successful applicants would obtain satisfac-
tory references from a bank or a respected meat trader.
6.        Loan Applications.  Loan application forms would be obtained from
BCD for ranch development or from SODEPA's extension teams. These livestock
extension teams would help applicants complete the form and would carry out
the technical appraisal. Butchers loan forms vould be obtained from FONADER's
branches in Douala and Yaounde. SODEPA's slaughter plant managers would carry
out the technical appraisal and FONADER's agricultural credit department
the credit worthiness appraisal.
7.        Loan Documents.  After approval the agricultural credit department
would prepare the loan agreement, including the schedule of repayment, the
promissory note, and security documents (chattel mortgage, and if required
a joint personal surety). Loan agreements would stipulate that at FONADER'8
request the borrower would agree to sell his production to a designated
buyer.
8.        Loan Disbursement.  FONADER would open an account vith one of the
commercial bank branches nearest to prospective borrowers - Societe
Camerounaise de Banque (SCB) or Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et
l'Industrie du Cameroun (BICIC) in Adamaoua and Cameroon Bank or BICIC in
North West Cameroon. The administration of this account, including signatory
powers of FONADER's representative and SODEPA's livestock extension staff,
would be arranged between FONADER's account and the commercial bank head
office. Loan proceeds would be transferred to this account. Invoices
supporting disbursement would be in two copies. These would be sent to
SODEPA's livestock extension teams, or, for butchers loans, to SODEPA's
slaughter plant manager, who would certify that the goods and/or services
listed in the invoice are in accordance with FONADER's loan agreement, and
that they have been effectively delivered or rendered to the borrower.
Approved invoices would be handed over to FONADER and, whenever possible,
goods and services financed by the loan would be provided in kind. When
cash would be required, only checks bearing two signatures (FONADER's repre-
sentative and the SODEPA livestock team member) would be used for disbursing



ANNEX 3
Page 3
loans from FONADER's account. Immediately, and in front of the two signa-
tories, the borower would endorse the check to the order of the dealer or
contractor to whom the check would be remitted for payment. For purchase
of stock requiring cash disbursement, the transaction between buyer and
seller would take place in the presence of SODEPA's livestock extension staff
who would also inspect and approve the animals before purchase.
9.        FONADER's Account.  FONADER's account with the commercial bank branch
would be debited with the amount paid out and an explanatory debit advice
would be sent to FONADER's agricultural credit department, where it would be
entered into the borrower's account and into the books of FONADER's central
accounting department. One copy of the discharge invoice would be attached
to the debit advice and filed in the Borrower's file. In addition, a state-
ment of accounts would be sent monthly by the bank to FONADER.
10.       Loan Repayment.  When due, principal and interest would be paid to
the nominated commercial bank branch and the amount collected would be trans-
ferred to FONADER with a credit advice through the commercial banks' head
office. SODEPA's extension staff would be responsible for supervising repay-
ments and for informing FONADER of reasons for default.  One month before
repayments fall due an advice would be sent to the borrower reminding him of
the maturity date and the amount to be repaid. In case of default, a reminder
would be sent 15 days after the date repayment should have occurred. If
necessary, a warning would be sent 15 days later. If within the next 30 days
the amount due would not have been repaid, or loan extension or renewal
would not have been arranged, FONADER would engage foreclosure action against
the defaulter.






ANNEX 3
CAMEROON
LIVFLSTOuK i'ROJECT
Agricultural Credit Facilities and Project Credit Arrangements
Fonds National de Développement Rural (FONADER)
Project Loan Disbursement and Collection Arrangements
intries in                                                                                                 Entries in FONADER
FONADER's Books                                         Sample Procedure                                   Branch's books
A - LOAN DISÉURSEMENTS
(1) A CFA 600,000 long term loan has been approved and
loan documents signed.
FONADER transfers CFA 600,000 to "FONADER's Livestock
Project" a/c with SCB Branch through SCB Head Office.
SCB's Riead Office                  In FONADER's books - account No. 35 and its sub-                       SCB Head Cfflce
a/c 40                         account No. 350 are debited, and account No. 40                            a/c 41
(h) 14b,0001600,000 (1)                credited with CFA 600,000.                                          (1) 600,000 600,000 (3)
In SCB branch's books - account No. 41 is debited and                           148,000 (4)
account No. 42 credited, with CFA 600,000.
(2) Invoices have been endorsed by extension staff and a
check has been issued to the borrower's order and en-
dorsed to the order of the dealer or contractor and
Medium Term Loans                   fonrarded to hin.
Iivestock Project                   In SCB branch's books - account No. 42 is debited with                       Cash
a/c 35                         the amount of the cheque, and account No. 44 is                             a/c 50
(1) 600,0001100,000 (4)                credited.                                                           (4) 14i,0001
M Nediusm Term Loans                 (3) The cheaue is paid to dealer or contractor, through
Livestock Project                   SCB Head Office (clearing).                                                FONADERtE
Individual Borrower                  In SCB branch's books - account No. 44 is debited                      Livestock Project
a/c 350                        and account No. hi credited with CFA 600,000.                               a/c hi
(2)  00,000  00D,O (1
(h) llS,000 14h,000 (h)
B - REPAYMENT OF LOAN INSTALLMENTS
(4) When due the first installment CFA 100,000 and inter-
est CFA 4h,000 (8 percent on CFA 600,000 - one y-ear)
are paid cash by the borrower in SCO branch and trans-
ferred to FONADER.
In SCB branch's books - account No. 50 is debited and
account No. 42 credited with CFA 148,000.
Simultaneously, account No. 42 is debited and account
No. hl credited with same amount.
In FONADER's books - receiving credit advice from SCB
Interest Collected                   Elead Office with full particulars.  FONADER debits                     Cheque Pending
Livestock Project                   account No. 40 with CFA 148,000 and credits account                         Payment
a/c 70                         No. 35 and sub-account No. 350 with CFA 100,000 and                         a/c 44
148,000 (4)               account No. 70 with CFA 4a,000.                                     (3  600,000 600,000 (2)
Remarks:  1.  Disbursements from, or repayments to "FONADER's Livestock Froject" account No. 42 with SCB branch would, as
it is usual, be supported by debit or credit advices showing all particulars and a copy of which would be
sent te FONADER. In addition, a statement of account would be sent monthly to FONADER for cross-checking.
2.  Since borrower's loan movements are kept in FONADER central accounting department and also on the borrower's
account kept individually by the Records section of FONADER's Agricultural Credit Department, there is no
evidence that opening individual borrower's accounts in Commercial Bark branch would be necessary. A1] loans
disbursements and repayments would be conveniently channeled through "FONADER's Livestock P-roject" current
account with SCB branch.  Unless for controlis sake, FONADER would desire to have SCB branch keeping paraliel
individual borrowerrs accounts, the procedure would only result in duplication of entries in branch's books.
February 25, 1974



CAMEItOON
LIVE.TOCK PROJECT
SODEPA
Cost of SODEPA - Headguarters
(CFAF 000)
llnitN    Year 1                                       Year 2                            Year 3                            Year 4                           Year 5.20
Gatefr                             -onat             No.             Cost          No.                Cost            No.                Cost           No.               Cost            No.              Cost
INVESTk'ENT COSTS
Vehicles - Four Wheel Drive              2,500               1            2,500
St,lrf                      1,oco               i,-1          1                                -o
_ 3nali                           sCO              1               600           -
Office Furniture and Equipoent F1         _                  1            1,SO0            -                 300 
Radio, Telephone                           60C               1               600           -                _                _                 _               _                 _                _                _
Subtotal Invest Lent 'osts    -                  -             6,205           -                 300                                       -                -                -                         -
OPERA1TIN  COSTS
Salaries
General Mamger                            3,000              1             3,(X)0          1               3,005             1               3,000             1               3,000              1              3,000
Technical Manager 12                     9,000               1            9,000            1               9,000             1               9,000            1                9,000             1               2,500
Financial Controller  /2                 o,000               1            o00              1               6,000             t               6,000            1                6,000             1               2,000
Accountant                               1,500              1             1 500           1                1,5                               1,500            i               1,500              -                -
'lerk                                      800               1              80ô            1                 800             1                 800            1                  800             1                 800
Secretaries                                 700              1               700           2               1,400             2               1,400             2               1,400             2               1,400
Telephonist/Typist                         oOo0                             b000           1                 Ob)             1                 600             1                 600              1                600
Drivers                                   45""               3             1,200           3               1,200             1               1,200            1                1,200             1               1,200
Messenger                                   4Ct              1               5O0I          1                 hOC             1                 400             1                 400              1                400
Subtotal                       -                 -           23,200            -              23,900             -              23,900             -              23,900              -             11,900
Rent of Offices a-d douses
Offices  /3                              2,5.                _             2,4(X0          -               2,500             -               2,400             -               2,400              -              2,400
iI.ses - Technical Manag er              1 800               1             1,800           1               1,800             1               1,800             1               1,800              -               -
- Financial Oontroller            1,bO'`1                          1,80)           1               1,800              1               1,800            1               1,800              -
Subtotal                       -                 -             6,(oo           -               6,oo0             -               6,000             -               6,000              -              2,400
Other Expenses
Vehicle iunnin& Costs '5                   -                 -             1,325           -               1,325             -               1,325             -               1,325              -              1,325
Vehicle R.eplcoent /5                     -                  -               820           -                 820             -                 820             -                 820              -                820
Internal Fligits                             30             30               900          3()                900            30                  900           30                 900             30                900
Daily Ulowances                                            120              b000         120                 600           12()                 600          120                 600            120                600
Offiice Expenses /0                        -                                 500           -                 800              -                 800            -                 800              -                800
&uditing                                                                   1,000           -               1,000             -               1,00)             -               1,000              -              1,000
Subtota]                       _                 _             5,145           -               5,445              -              5,L45             -               5,L45              -              5,445
Total toot cg: SDEPA                       _                 _            40,sL5           -              35,6h5              -              35,34,5           -              35,345              -             19,745
- losi3quarttrs
/1 Includes furnitare Jor i oilices,    onc horse power air conditioners, 2 typewriters and 2 calculating machines.
72 ':ill be replaced in year 5 by Caneroonians.
73 Assuminig that i offices will be rented.
75 25,000 km per yea.r at CFAF 25 per K. per four alheel drive vehicle
20,000 kn per year at CFAF 20 per km0 per staff vehic1e                  )   for tuei, oi], grease, spore parts, repairs and insurance.
20,00C kmt per year St CFAF 15 per kAn per sreuil whicle
/5 20% of original coosts beginning with year *f acquisition.
Z7o Includes utilities.
Septemb  1 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
CAMEPOON
LIVIESTOCK PPOJECT
Traditlonal Sector Credit Program
1.        The sub-nroject would be located in the northwest highlands and the
Adamaoua Plateau east of Ngaoundere (Map). It vould comprise assistance for
mixed farmers and settled graziers to increase the productivity of their land
and herds and to reduce their dependence on transhumance.  The sub-project
would provide extension and credit services, and, if successful, would be the
basis for expansion of credit to the sector. Three basic models for ranch
and farm development have been identified.
Model I:  Small Mixed Farm/Steer Fattening
I.        Small-holder cattle fattening would be developed in the arabica
coffee-growing Northwest Province. A tvrical unit (Table 1) would include
about 4 ha, of which 0.25 ha would be cultivated with coffee and 0.75 ha
with subsistence crops, mainly maize, groundnuts and a variety of fruits and
vegetables. The remaining 3 ha would be fallow land which would be intensi-
fied under the project by grass-legume fodder crops.  Project-financed invest-
ments would include seed and fertilizer for fodder crops, materials for fenc-
ing and construction of cattle shelters, small equipment, tools, and three
feeder steers in years one and two of farm development. Technical advice,
animal health care and mineral supplements would also be provided. Family
labor would be used to construct simple, open stables; cultivate and h,rvest
fodder; make hay, stall-feed and tether the animals. Steers would be bought
at 1-1/2 to 3 years old and would be fattened for up to 20 months, increasing
liveweight by about 200 kg.  Beside providing additional income from beef
production, the integration of agriculture and livestock would maintain and
improve soil fertility and combat erosion on the steener slopes of the pro-
ject area. In addition, family labor would be used more efficiently.
Model II: 250-ha Ranch
3.        Ranches of about 250 ha (Tables 3-5) would he developed in Northwest
Province and in Central Adanaoua, some 30 km east of Ngaoundere in the Dibi
and Tourningal/Belel grazing areas. They would he for a family unit owning
about 50 to 60 cattle. The ranches would be located in areas free of tsetse-
flies and where rangeland already has a carrying capacity of about three
animals per ha.  Participants would have been settled for at least five years
and would have good standing and creditworthiness in the community.  The
project would provide technical advice and finance for additional local
breeding stock and feeder steers, as well as for fencing, firebreaks,
watering and stock handling facilities and small tools. Since the dry
season in Central Adamaoua lasts about three months longer than in the



ANNIX 5
Page 2
Northwestern Highlands, emphasis would be placed in the Dibi and
Tournlngàl/Beiel areas on production of dry-season fodder; cot6toséed
and cottonséed cake would be purchased for supplementary feeding of
females in lactation and young stock during the dry season and also for
finishing steers should Drices make this profitable.  A typical herd would
be increased from about 60 to a 100 animal units and would produce about
10 ranch-bred steers, six cull cattle and four breeding heifers per year.
Tle ranch developments would reduce dependence on transhumance, thereby
allowing the families to profit from a settled way of life. Furthermore,
animal productivity would be increased considerably through the positive
effects of sedentarism.
Model III: 750-ha Ranch
4.        This model (Tables 6 and 7) would be representative of a large
faamily whose head might control about 300 cattle, of which one-third
may be his property and the balance divided among relatives. Such larger
ranches would be developed mainly in the Northwestern Highlands and would
require the same investments and improved production techniques as described
under Model Il. Conditions of participation in the credit scheme would be
as set out in Model II. At full development this 750-ha unit would have
increased its stock numbers by 50 percent, would produce annually about
33 ranch-bred steers and up to 20 cull cattle as well as 13 breeding
heifers from a herd of 300 animal units.
Disbursement
5.        Loan would be disbursed over about three years and the phasing of
participants in the project would be as follows:
PY 2     PY 3      PY 4     PY 5        Total
Model I                5        10       10        10          35
Model Il              15        20       25        30          90
Model III              5         6        6         8          25
Total            25       36        41       48         150
6.        The bulk of the loans (about 120) would be made in Northwest Pro-
vince along the ring road from Mbengwi eastward through Bamenda and Kumbo to
Nkambe. The remainder (30 loans) would establish ranches some 30 km east of
Ngaoundere in the Dibi and Tourningal/Belel grazing areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Financial and Economic Results
7.        Financial results based on incremental costs and returns would be
23 percent for steer fattening on mixed farms, and 16 percent and 17 percent
respectively for fattening/breeding ranches of 250 ha and 750 ha. The return
for steer fattening is sensitive to small cost and henefit changes; a 10 per-
cent increase in costs reduces the return to 14 percent, and a 10 percent
reduction in benefits to 13 percent. A combination of these adverse events
would give a rate of return of about 4 percent. The rates of return for breed-
ing/fattening operations are much less sensitive to small cost and return
changes; a 10 percent cost increase or a 10 percent reduction of benefits
reduces rates of return by 3 percentage points; together these events give a
rate of return for both models of about 11 percent.
8.        For all models investments would be long maturing, and after debt
service cumulative net incomes would become positive between years four and
six after initial investment. Upon completion of debt service annual incre-
mental incomes would range from about CFAF 50,000 (US$250) for steer fattening
on mixed farms to CFAF 747,000 (US$3,600) on a 750 ha ranch. Incentives for
farm and grazier participation would be adequate as investment in cattle is a
popular form of capital accumulation, and net family incomes after debt service
is completed would be double or treble nredevelopment incomes.
9.        When incremental farm and ranch costs and benefits are aggregated
with loan administration and extension costs, the return to the economy is
estimated at 11 percent. A 10 percent increase in costs or .a 10 percent
reduction in benefits would reduce this rate of return to 9 percent (Table 11).






CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Model 1: Traditional Sector Credit Program
Investment, Operating Costs and Income Statement
Unit                           --------               Year of Development  ----------
Cost                           1                           2                           3-10
Investment Costs
Fencing (km) -        /2                 40,000                       20,000                     20,000                          -
Covered Cattle Yard -       /3           20,000                       20,000                         -
Small Equipment and Tools                   -                         20,000                         -                          -
Pasture Improvement (ha) /               12,000                       18,000                    18,000                          _
Purchase of Feeder Steers                18,000                       54,000                    64,800                          -
Total Investment Costs                       -                       132,000                   102,800                           -
Operating Costs
Fencing /5            5                                                                          2,000                        4,000
Covered Cattle Yard -       /6               -                                                   2,000                        2,000
Small Equipment and y70ls -                 _                          4,000                     4,000                        4,000
Pastiire Improvement -                                                                           5,000                        7,500
Purchase of Feeder Steers                18,000                          -                          -                        64,800
Insecticides                                200                          600                     1,200                        1,200
Drugs                                       150                          450                        900                          900
Minerals                                     150                         450                        900                          900
Cattle Tax (per A.U./year)                   200                         600                      1,200                        1,200
Total Operating Costs                        _                         6,100                     17,200                      86,500
Income
Sales of Purchased Steers -              38,000                          -                      114,000                     136,800
/1 For barbed wire, spanners and nails.
/2 For posts, nails etc.
/3 For a samall knapsack sprayer, tethering chains, buckets etc.
/4 For seed and/or planting material (CFAF 7,000) and for 200 kg of compound fertilizer (NPK 20:10:10) per ha (100 kg
at sowing and 100 kg 4-6 months later; cost per 100 kg = CFAF 2,500).
/5 10% of cost beginning with year following construction or acquisition.
76 20% of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
/7 100 kg of compound fertilizer (NPK 20:10:10) per ha at CFAF 2,500.
/8 Steers would be sold at CFAF 40,000.   The sales price in the table of CFAF 38,000 reflects
a 5% mortality rate during the 20 months fattening period or CFAF 40,000 - CFAF 2,000 (=5% of CFAF 40,000).                                o x
September 10, 1973



ANNEX 5
Table 2
CAMEROON
LIV1STOCK PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Facilities and Project Credit Arrangements
Model I: Small Mixed Farm (4 ha)
Cash Flow
t FAF t000)
1         2          3         4          5        6         7         8        9        10
INFLOW
1/
Medium-Term Loan-                        62.4      30.4        -          -         _         _        _
Farmer's Contribution                   15.6        7.6       -         -         -          -        -
7c.0      38.0             -          -         -        -
2/
Short-Term Loan                         43.2      51.9        -          -          _        _        _
Farmer's Contribution                   10.8       13.0       -        _
Feeder Steer Sales                       -        114.0    136.8      136.8      136.8    136.8   136.8    136.8    136.8    136.8
Total Inflow                132.0    216.9        136.8     136.8      136.8    136.8    136.8    136.8    136.8    136.8
OUTFLOW
Capital Irvestjnent                     78.0      38.0        -         -          -        -         -        -        -
Feeder Steer Purchase                   54.0      64.8       64.8      64.8       64.8     64.8      64.8    64.8      64.8      64.8
132.0     102.8       64.8      64.8       64.8     64.8      64.8      64.8     64.8      64.8
Operating Cost                           6.1      17.2       21.7       21.7      21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7
Total Outflow               138.1      120.0      86.5       86.5       86.5     86.5      86.5     86.5      86.5      86.5
DEBT SERVICE
Medium-Term Loan
Year 1 - Interest                      3.2        6.3       5.2        4.1       2.8       1.        -        -5
Principal                     -        16.7      11.5       12.5       13.14    1i4.5      -         -
Year 2 - Interest                      _          1.6       3.1        2.6       2.0       1.8      0.8       -         -
Principal                    -          -         5.2        5.6        6.1      6.3       7.1       -        -         -
Short-Term Loan
Year 1 - Interest                      2.2        4.4       -          -         -         -        -
Principal                    -         43 .2       -
Year 2 - Interest                      -         2.6        5.2        -         -         -        _         _         _
Principal                               -        51.9
Total Debt Service            5.4       68.8      82.1       24.8       214.3    24.1       7.9       -        -         -
NET CASH FLO4W AFTER DEBT SERVICE      (11.5)     28.1      (31.8)      25.5      26.0      26.2     42.4      50.3     50.3      50.3
CUMULATIVE NET CASH FLOW               (11.5)     16.6      (15.2)     10.3       36.3      62.5    10o4.9    188.2    205.5    255.8
CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW TO FARMEtR        (37.9)    (20.4)    (60.2)    (34.7)        0.7      17.5     59.9    110.2    180.5    210.8
1/ Caplrtal investment (fencirg, cattle shed, equipment, pasture improvenent) - 10% interest - o year repayment including 1 year
grace .
2/ 80% of feeder steer purchase.
3/ Includes farmers' contributions to investment and feeder steer costs in years 1 and 2.
September 10, 1973



51419  5
Table 3
LIVESTOCX PR03ECT
Toaditional Sactor Cradlt Pceacam
Modal lII   Pri-ata   raia/ate                 Ranch - 250 ha
lIerd Proiectia  ilt
000.00v.     I           ~     ~    ~~ ~        ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~~2 .1  4  5  6  I  e    y         lu          Il          12     13-24
HE4lj CLoMPosîbl 1lo
30  4î)EÉI,Ilou  LueS                   300         3-ta        3U3         3(3         31,        369         390         413         439         44,,        443         4.3         443        443
40  Auitos                                30         2?1          19         I    15           15                lb I        17          lb          14          10         10          ld          10
b  0400)71                             110         lOI         130         1/2        lOb         200         20.1        214         227         242         2~3         243         293        293
12  9*p   Oul   rEIlON                  I1 i        5Il2        Su          oIt         a4          90          91          90        111,4       111         11it        1Il         lia         11l,
il  924  vIjl,   51(LE45                 51          42          lu          116         os          90          '*          9         14          lit         1?          111         III         11
22  24 6a 1440   'tLIl.rt                40          41          5            n          o.           î          o           '            9          (           12         (2          13          13
30  2 à434         t    Soi i 14R1      41           411        50u         .t          e9          11          116t        94          vs        141         1 01        114         115         115
40  311-.411    01    11,0TM               2           1          3/           9         aî           0 63 lu1                           /3          (?1                     aI          du         b9
40  601 /0)0) -       Oi ~~ f LERo        Il           o           t.          o           o           O           4                0    C                        O           t                       6
30  FATII'.I,1t.  COLL  tOc                O          43          3à         40          '.          42          43          45          an          52                      52         52          52
TOTAL  ItIhlS                        0         647         413         090,        (04         1119        mou0        921        906         919        bUUS        1I7         1423        1029
ITUFAL  aoleALsî                   -lb          192        di2          o          9v0        .)101       lu1        14           1111       1220        124         121         124         1ô
SUOI?Tuf. L  0;U.'.                4'.0        6h11        os?         o/n         uk          7411         511        405        432         95 3        42e         941         997         9948
Pou  FgoLO)  E1 4                     O          00O         110    0   b           oe01                    o           60          01          4/_         22O                                  O
ThIJtA  A)1,1l00A   UN11v          11o0        7it,        Tir         7311        /2          aSo         9111 b      905        94,2       lovo        lIth         4911        99/         990b
111160il,)   LueS                    12          15          14          15t         LI         Il          il          12          12          1h          13          13          13          13
NOLLS                                 1           t           1           I           o           o1          o          (1          O                       I                       I 
CAL4111                              24           l           4           0           O           0J          0          O)          C           O1           J           '.
'.LANEKbS                                  (1                 4           b           î                       6          n           o           1                       171
9.2'  MO.,lo, HEtiFES                 3           3           o           t1          2                                   à           3          aà                      4           4           4
9SralStuS3                                        a           t           t                       3                       3          3           a           3           4           4           4
24~a16~1,orhl1, îolu1IFoo0 aS1                    2           t           O           i                                   3          3           2           2           2           2           2
24JhtoflrSlLLeS                       3           2           2                       1           2                       3          3           a3                      3           3           3
3ôv14'.lpo11SIhF                      2           2           t                 1                 1           I          2           2           22                      2           2           3
61072  M j lîîSlM LLhs                1                                   v           o           O                                                                                    
FA41      14vltO  COULI  F  -   ----        t     o                - - ---.......I-      -   . . . . . .                                                                               . .       i   
S O   OT L,1  L                      21          3o          2          2e          /0          22          25                      27T        211          24           4          30         3
FUR4tA99000S  0111.                   o                                               2           2          2           2           2                       1IO
TOiTAL                                a?          u          Il         /Y          22                      25          Il          Id          JO          au          aL          4          au
BULLS                                 t)          1                       o           j           a                      4          _5           h4                      4_          4_          4
50U111u04 LIOl 4A                                                         0           a                       4          4t          5           '444                                44
11101.91U 1)                                     O           110        110                     u           6J          60          o           4 7         22O 
TOTAL                                 O        1 2         1lo i        11,         à3           63         64          114         oS          2.1        211           4           44
29%O  oaN)- l h4.1 /toI               t'          4           4           4           O                                                 1       iO y         2          4           42Z        '4
364-40 'oUi, Iîl)t ~E '.
COLO                                2            2                       2                                  4           4           5                       S5OO
3&_4b lo011o5)ciEoo                   5           5           y          ju           4         12          10          1)          19          1           20         o           22          2
90o)401             iL                4           4           4          J          3            O          4           o            n          (           7 2         (01                     b0t-
FAT1F-,'   10LL  FOI,               lu            .         4/          a           40         9           '2          42          '5          o)           b          SI           1          51
S1001o1,  L                         511          4          a           4            o          4          1 I3        120         1511       1 1. A        tS         19         204         2   y
POCPURuIMOL   4011                    OL          U          50          S          bd          bd          tu          911         50          50          406         c?           4
TuTaL                               50           4         101         I/          15.         îe            l         lt         2 14        232         2Jt         24          20 ~     v4  2 o9~
TOI.Aulo. 000                     9.00        (.14Y,44.40           1 .'.       1/.vo       lo.3       13.1l 1     1 4.0       4     11.4    .2        1 1  1.92     19.4    20.4         209
CUas/IjIet  4/où  O             42.2 5      43J.0b1     41.14       4  2.oa     41.511      54./        31   3       11.14      3.1 4       30./o      3i.y4    35,.11         34Y 4    3 4.9 2
9200/Ode  rATI,                  14.v         -.4',       4.00        4.20       4.40         4.0)       4.00        4.0         4.q ,0      4.t4       '.4          4.O)0       4,46t       9-00ü
ou'. cooLîV         IEqT         ml.uu       î,.o       luut        I1oo        12uu        îqou        1 1212îu                1/-t        ±o.oe:u    :.'         12-oh'ù 12.o              2u0
5O0041,   rA~IF 1/.)               .(         14          3.t          .0)        31o         .1 L1          /       2.A4           52       2.5         2%v          .4         0.51        2.51
Zl ard prjejatie applfas toI il ranches.
Septreter 10, 1973



CAI3EROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Traditfi.al SeSrai Cr-dit Propr.m
Model II *  Inveataient and Inome Stateezit
(CFAF '000)
Unit          Befor-           --e-ar-----------------                         Y-  of Devlpaeit ----------------------------------------
Category                                         Cost        Development         1         2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9        10       il        12       13-20
lîvearat ntCoits
Fen- ing    (k=)                                60                -           360      lS
pirebniahi(4:m)                                 -10                           60       30
Cathering Yard aid Cattle Crash                 50                -            50         -       -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -
iispsank ipnayan                                15                -            15
Watering Facilities-                           500                -           250         -       -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -
SIaiS Equipment a-d Toila                                         -            20         -       -        -         -       -     -        -         -        -         -             -         -
Breeding heifss                                 22                -           132        88
B-niding Bulis                                  40                -            40         -
Feader Stlera                                   18                -           108      108
La-d S-iviy                                      0.6              -           150        -
Total Inveatment Coits                                    -        1,185       406
Opîrating CUnti
le 7ing                                                           -                     36        54       54       54        54       54        54       54        54       54        54       54
Gathe-nig Yard and Cattle Crash-                                  -            -          5        5        5         5        5         5        5         5        5         5        5         5
Watering Faciliti5'                                              _            -        25        25       25        25       25        75       25       25        25        25       25        25
S..1 Equipment ..d Tool-6/                                        2             7        7         7        7         7        7         7        7         7        7         7        7         7
B-eeding Balla                                  40                -            -         -         -       40                  -       40         -         -       4G        1'       13        13
Feederîteîns                                    1S                                       -       10_      108      108       108      108       108       90        36                  -         -
Insectitides                                     0.2              -            17       17        19       20       22        23       24        24       25        25       25        25       25
Drugs                                            0.15             3            13       13        14       15        16       17        18       19        19       19        19       19        19
Min 1rals                                        0.15             -            13       13        14       15        16       17        18       19        19       19        19       19        19
Cattln Tax  (pin A.U.)                           0.20            12            14       14        15       16        17       18        19       20        20       20        20       20        20
Laid Ret   (pr Hal                               0.01             -             3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3
Total Sp-ratiig Coits                                  17            67       133      264       308      273       277      321       284      267       253      190       190      190
Sa.I   - Culled Balla                           50               12            50        -         -       50         -        -       50         -         -       50       17        17        17
- 24-36 Month   eifers                   22                -             -         -        -         -        -        -         -       44        66       88        80       88        88
-Culld Heifers                           12                6            32        -         -        -        32        -2                           -       32         -       32        16
-  Sera                                  40               60           160      320       200      200      200       240      320       32û      362      320       400       400      440
- Culled CesB                            30               90             -      120        90      120      120       120      120       150       150      150      150       150      150
- Pan-has.d StIris                       40                -             -        -       240      240      200       240      240       240      240       240      200        80        -
Total Ircos                                           168           242       440      530       610      552       600      730       786      816       920      855       767      711
1/  CFAF 40,000 par kl  f-or wir
"    7,500  " "           poast
6,000  " "'    eucalyptus saplings
6,000  I"""    loai
500  """   miscellaneous
CFAY 60,000 par km         total
2/  Firebreaks would be abhnt 5 a wid. aid planted
aith kitkau grass.
3/  Thia ihîaatîi-t amount  nais    be hioa  asahara
if a nearby dip.
4/ iof a smaa- daa er pand.
5/ 10% if reit beginning with yean followiîg omnatrutsion.
6/  2071 of  .o.t bhgining with yeen af acquisition; intldai khapsahk ipraayr.
September 10, 1973



LIVITOCK PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Facilities and ProJlect Credit Arrangements
Model II-   Private Breedine/Fatt.n±   Ranch - 250 ha
Cash Flow
(CFAF ' oo )
1        2       3        4        5        6      7      8        9       10       il       12       13       14       15        16       17       18       19     20
INFLOW
1/
Medium-term Loan - Capital Investment    724.0   168.0
Rancherls Contribution                   181.0    42.0
Medium-term Loan                          137.6    70.4
Ranch9r's Contribution                    3h.4    17.6
Short-term Loan for Feeder Steers         86.4    86.4
Rancherls Contribution                    21.6    21.6
Livestock Sales                          242.0   440.0   530.0   610.0   552.0  600.0  730.0  786.0   816.o   920.0   855.0   767.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0    711.0   711.0   711.0
Total Inflcw                  1,427.0   845.0   530.0   610.0   552.0  600.0  730.0  786.0   816.0   920.0   855.0   767.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0   711.0
OUTFLOW
Capital Investment                       905.0   210.0
Sreeding Stock Parchase                  172.0    88.0
Feeder Steers Purckase                   108.0   108.0
Operating Cost                            66.5   132.5   263.5   307.5   272.5  276.5  320.5  283.5   266.5   252.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5    189.5
Total Outflom                 1,351.5   538.5   263.5   307.5   272.5  276.5  320.5  283.5   266.5   252.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5    189.5   189.5   189.5   189.5
D1BT SERVICE
Long-Term Iean
Capital Investment - Interest 10%       36.3    81.3    88.8    88.8    7ll.3   59.4   44.5   29.6    14.8                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -             -        -        -
Principal                                    149.0   149.0  149.0  149.0  149.0   147.0           -       -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Breeding Stock    - Interest 10%         6.9    17.3    20.8    20.8    17.3   13.6   10.3   6.8             3.3      -        -        -         -       -         -        -        -        -                 -
Principal                                     35.0    35.0    35.0   35.0  35.0    33.0           -        -        -        -        -        -        -                 -        -        -
Short-Term Loan
Feeder Steers     - Interest 10%        4h4      13.0      8.6      -        -       -       -      -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Principal                    86.4    86.4       -        -       -      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Total Debt Service               47.6   198.0   209.6   293.6   275.8  257.0  238.8  220.4   198.1             -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
NET CASH FLOW AFfER DEBT SERVICE          27.9   109.5    61.9        8.9      3.9   66.5  170.7  282,1   351.4   667.5   665.5   577.5   521.5   521.5   521.5   521.5   521.5   521.5   521.5   521.5
CUMNLATI7E NET CASH FLOW                  27.9   137.4   199.3   208.2   2J2.1  278.6  449.3  731.4  1,082.8  1,750.3  2,415.8  2,993.3  3,514.8  4,036.3  4,557.8  5,079.3  5,600.8  6,122.3  6,643.8  7,165.3
NET CASH FLOW TO CATTLE OWNES 2          (209.1)  (180.8)  (118.9)  (110.0)  (106.1)  (39.6) 131.1  413.2   764.6  1,432.1  2,097.6  2,675.1  3,196.6  3,718.1 4,239.6  4,761.1  5,282.6  5,806.1  6,325.6  6,847.1
V/ Includes loan for fencing, firebreaks, gathering yard and crush, watering facilities, equipment, and land survey.  Three years grace on pricipal, repayment over 6 years and interest at 10%.
2/ Includes cattle uaners' contribution to investment costs.                                                                                                                                                                       J
Septeuber 10, 1973



TableR
AMIER000
LIVESTOCK( PRWJECT
T-raditional Sector Credit Program
?iodel III: Private Breedine/Fattening Ranch - 750 ha
Herd Projection
----------------------Endof Year ---------------------------
PNî.ooq .           I          2          à          e          S          6          7          8          9         l0         il    12120
HENU cuNmoSITiOOl
BNEL(liNùu 009                   lo»        115        124        121        116        120        12f        133        133        li3         i   133 143          13
SULLS                             10          7          ô          5          s          5           )         S          S          S)         S          5           5
CALVES                            35         33         46         suô        tu         oS        (à6         ?Q f-       3         73         73         73         (3
9124  mOis1 HEIFEsiS              Il         if         Il         22         27         29         31         32         34         35         35         35         35
9'24  MOs.,'Tii STE LiS           if         î 7        0/         i2         21         29         31         32         34         33         35         35         3
24-36  MUNIR1  HtIFElss           16         16         16         16         21         26         oi         22         22         22         22         22         22
24-36  MONIN  5TE645              10         16         lb         16         21         20         26         31         JI         33         34         44         34
36'48 VùNIN  SiFLEIS              14         le4        12         12         13         Il         20?        22         24         24         26         2f         2(
4860,iJN1M STLFUS                  3         1 2         o          o          o          0          O          Q          O          O           O         O           O
60-12  MûNT~i S1hEFu               5          O                     o          Ql         O                     Q                     O           OJ         O 
FAlîtEilvu  CoLL FER               o         14         il         13         14         14         14         15         15         15         15         15         15
bu1l  t Nvu-IsS                  2 (0       2.263      2I~        2I        240        26"        264        291        2968       303        300        3 0,7      301
(TRiIAL  ANImALS>               fi5         263        266        263        3v?       33-2        351       361         371        376,       379        360        36(
SU6'luIAiL  A.0.                 200        220        214        221        2se       260U        211        204       290         265        290        299        299
PUéNCHPSLL; 3TLFNS                 Li        20         2v         2,         20         20l        20         16         10          b           O1        0 
T0TAL AlIKAL  UNI113            200         24v        234        241       259        260         291        3 00       300        3o0ù       296        2909       299
MUNTALIl Y
iINELU1i,vtcUV.                    4           3         i          S          4          4          4          4          4          94         N           4         '4
NoANEKNS                           0          ?           I                    2                2          2          2          2               2          2          2
9'24  M1i.Tis MIEIFENS             I                1          1               I    1           1          1               I    1                 1          I          1
9-24 MU'Al  SILLAS                 I          I          I                1               I    1           1               I    1                I           1          1
24'36  MuNIRH Ml,IFFPS             1          I          1          I          O                     I          I          1          1                      I          1
24-36  "uNiR  SILEAS               I           1         I          I          o          I          1          I          1          I                      1          1
36-en  RiNlîl SUONSb               I          1          I          o)         o          0          is         1          I          I                     1           1
SUn-TvI9L                          y         1(                           ô                          I          66    6               6i          6         9          y
PONLN9SLO  SILIAS0                            0          1          I          1          I          I          I          0          LO         0          LI         Q
TOTAL                                        1 l         9          M          ô          7          à          9          6          6          t          99
ijNLED1I'0  900~ NUlLeS            O         2 U        10          O          o          O          O          o                     Q            
SOLLS                              O          0           I         LI          I         1          1          1          1          i          I          I 
SUb6TUIAL                          0         2t         Il          o          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I
511QI<3                          O         20         2W         eu         2v         20         20         1ô         1 0         5          O                     o
TUTAL                              i         '40        3 1         O         2 1        2?1        2 1        16         1           6          I          I          1
SALIS
BUoLS                              1          3          1          1          1          1          1          i          1          I          I          I          I
2 413 6  MUNI hR  'IlIUS           O          O                     O                                2          9         10         il         13         13         13
369i1  MUNIH  MtIlFEil
COLL                              i          1                     1          a          i          i          i          i          2          2          2          2
36-46  NONTn  SUCEES               i          2          à          3          3          4          3)         6          ô          6          6          yf
486-60  MUNTH SIIENS               2          1         13         12         12         12         10         26         21         23         23         2 5        26
60 12  MUeN[  SILFl,S              2         l v        Il          O                    O1          O1                    O                      J         O1         O
FATTENqIIîG O  LL FL               u  10               4l          il 1            1      9-         14  1 4   14         15         1 5        15         13         1 5
SU6-TOiAL                         17         16         44         2 6        àu        aJ2          ey        SQ1       t-4         Stc        Lv         62         6 3
Pu9CII9SIO  SIELS3                vu                    1 y        1 9        149        1y         1y         1 9        1 6        10          5          O          O
TUTAL                             17         16         63         47         'v         SI         tô         fi         (0         60         65         &2         63
WIA14I4AI,  9611              3 5.-00    35.0u    40).00       45.oo      50.uU    t>).tuoo         OL     5.~ 55.oo SS(550       5.uo      33.00      55.uü    55.UU
ADUOOT  NmIt~ALIiI  t          5.00       5.00       4.00       4.20       3 . 0v     3 .00      3.00       3.00       - .u î.v0  3LIQ       3 .00      3.U0,      3.00U
rXTiîAoTlOo  NAF [It           9.0c       1.24    2 0.41  112 . 51        1 2. ài9   12.35    1 3.3à3    1 4.61       1 -3.30    15.04      1 5 .99    1 6. 47    1 6.6 5
TUT.  OuL)UIF;  4TE1   Z       9.0W       7.2 4    20. 41    12.-5 7    12.39        42.35    14.02    17.?71         18.60      1962       2.21    20.66         21 .05
C003/loIAo  NERL) t           42 . 53    4 3.0ô7    46).6du    42.61,1    a6.ee      36 .3~1    3ô .2     3 6.77    35.bl    35 .3 3( 5.03    34.92    34.Y2
BULL/LUe  MAI10%  Z           l.oOU       6.00       h.Uo       4 .00      4 . L      4 . 0      4.00       4 .0v        9.00,     4,00      4 .00      4 .tu0      4.1,0
CUis CULLIIsO  19AT1  6       10.00      13.00    10.00        llo 1       2.uu l.00,    1t.60    12.oU    *2.oo      lkoQO      12,00,    12.00       12.00      12.00
BULL  LULLIIoO  RATE A    îS.oo          30.o0      20.00      2u.u(O   20i.ov       dv.00    20.00l    ? 2.00f    20,.vO    20.oUO    20j.00L    20.00           20.00
HLIIE Lis  ULLJ,110  NAI (o    5 .vO      S.0        5.ov       5 .uQ      5.vO       5 .vu      5.oo       5.0v       5.vO       5.v,       O .UO      5.(o       5.o6 
S510061n0  MATE  NAIA.U.   3 .735         3. 12      3. 21     à3. 11      2 .6O9     2.ôô       2.-5 2     2.50       i 2.30     2 .30      2 .51      2 .5 1     2. 51
SIlrMIsu, s,AlE  A.0./NA   0 . 27         0 .3à2     v.31       v *; 42    v à' Q3 0.1           v . 40     0j. 40     ,. 411     O * 40     0. 40      0. 40      6.40
CA9NY0P4O  LAiP. A.0.            300        300        300        3vo,       30o        300        ioo        300        300        3oo        bu e(      3vL        3o0
Septearber 10, 1-973



~ANEX '
Table 7
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCiT PROJECT
Mlod.1 III   rraditiosoal Sector Cr-dit Program
I,vet a.nt and Inc.oe Stat-ent
(CFAF '000)
Unit          Before           -------------------------------------------          Yer of Deveipmnt
Cnîenorr                                CosO        Developmentn         1           2          3          4          5          6          7          ô          9           10         il         12-20
Investment Conts
F-n inB    (ko)                       60                -            600        300         -          -           -
Firebekds (kml-                       10               -             100         50
'.th-brUg YTrd and Cattle Crush  100                   -             100          -
Dip                               4,00O                -          1,000           -         -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Uwt-rirg Focilities                 500                -             500
Smali  -.uiponn  nnd Tois             _ -                             30
B-edirng Unif-rs                      22               -             440        220
Breeding Bulls                       40                -              40          -
Feed-r Steers                         18               -             360        360
L-ad Survey                           0.6              -            450           -
T-rl CInvsmentr Co,s                           -          3,620        930
op0rotin0 Costs
Fe-ing/                                                -               -         60          90         90         90         90          90         90         90         90         90         90
4/
C.therinT Y-rd  nd Cattle Cr_sh                        -               -         10          10         10         10          10         10         10         10         10         10         10
Dip4/                                                  _                        100         100        100        100        100        100         100        100        100        100        100
Watering Focilitins-/                                  -               -         50          50         50         50         50         50          50         50         50         50         50
Small Eouipmnnt and Tool-/                             5               6          6           6          6          6          6          6           6          6          6          6          6
>  Ornndlng Buils                         40                -              -          -          40         40          40         40         40         40         40         4C         40          40
Fonder Stonrs                         1û                               -          -         360        360        360        360        288         180         90          -          -          -
I-nscticides (per - nima15-           0.20             -              57         57          61         65        72i         74         75         76          76         76         76         76
Dr-gs         (p-r Animal)             0.15           10             42          43          45         49         53         56          57         57         57         57         57         57
Min-rals      (p-r AnimolS             0.15            -             42          43          45         49         53        5S          57          57         57         57         57         57
Cottle Tan (per A.U.)                  0.'0           40              48         47          48         52         56         59          60         60         60         60         60         60
Ltnd Rent -per ho)                     0.01            -               88                                8          8           8          8                                8          8
Eerdsmer                             72              288             288        288         008        288        288        288        288         288        288        288        288        288
Totol Operating Costs                       343             491        712       1,151      1,167      1,184      1,197      1,129       1,022        932        842        842        842
!ncome
Soles - ColO1d Bu1ll                 50               50             150         50          50         50         50         50         50          50         50         50         50         50
- 24-36 Mon-t Heif-rs          22                -              -          -           -           -          -         44        198        220        242        '86        286        286
- Culled heifers               32              37              32         32          32         32          32         32         32         32         64         64         64          64
- Stnons                      40              200             520      1,080         600        600        640        840      1,040       1,080      1,160      1,160      1,280      1,320
- Cule1d Cons                  30             300               -        420         330        390        420        420         420        450        450        450        450        450
- Porchased Steers             40               -               -          -         760        760        760        760         760        760        640        400        700
Total In-o-e                                 582             702      1,582       1,772      1,832      1,907      2,146      2,500       2,5i2      2,6,6      2,41'      2,330      2,170
1/ Based on-  CFAF 40,000 fo- vire; CFAF 7,500 fon ponst  CFAF 6,000 fUr
eurolyptus s-plings; CFAF 6,000 for lobor; Rnd CFAF 500 fUr
misrellaneous ronto.
2/ Wonld be aboet 5 o nide 0nd plnteSd Uith kikuyu grons,
3/ ' of o dip.
4/ 10     f n crt be8innin8g  ith year fnllo-ingconrrction.
207. of ros-t beinnin8g nth year of acquisition.
ippiro once weekly f on 26 veeks end once fortoightly fnr 26 nenko.
7/ Va            gin-ion   apainst blckvatoen and haemornhagic septicaemiatvine pe-
year and  gUai..  anthnox 0000 pen yean plo  drenching agaiont intern 1
panonit_.
8/ 5 k0 rkok noit per head pe- year rt CFAF 30 pe kg.
Septeb-er 10, 1973



CAME1FON
LIVlTOCK PROECr
R.urizultural Credit Facilities and Project 5redit Arrangements
hlodel III:  Private Breedinp/Fatteriing Ranch - 750 ha
Cash Flow
("AF '000)
1         2          3          4          5         6        7         8         9         10        il    12 to 20
INllLOW
1/
lledium-Terir, Loan - Capital Investirent-  1,624.0    300.0
Rarrcher's Contribution                      406.0       75.0
Kedium-Terin Loan - Breeding Stock           384.0      176.0
Rancher's Contribution                        96.0       44.0
Short-Term Loan - Feeder Steers              288.0      288.0
Rancher's Contribution                        72.0       72.0
Livestock Sales                              702.0   1,582.0   1,772.0   1,832.0   1,902.0   2,146.0  2,500.0  2,592.0  2,606.0  2,410.0  2,330.0   2,170.0
Total Inilov,?                 3,572.0   2,537.0   1,772.0   1,832.0   1,902.0   2,146.0  2,500.0  2,592.0  2,606.0  2,410.0  2,330.0   2,170.0
OUTFLO''
Capital Investment                         2,030.0      375.0
Breedirg Stock Purchase                      480.O      220.0
Feeder Steers Purchase                       360.0      360.0
Operating Cost                               490 .5     711.5   1,150.5   1,166.5   1,183.5   1,196.5  1,188.5  1,021.5    931.5    841.5    841.5             b41.5
Total Outflow                   3,360.5   1,666.5   1,150.5   1,166.5   1,183.5   1,196.5  1,188.5  1,021.5    931.5    841.5    841.5               841.5
DFBT SEhVICh
MIedium-Term Loan
Capital Investment - Interest 10%,          81.2      177.4     192.4      192.4      160.3      128.2      96.1      64.o      31.9
Principal                                            321.0      321.0     321.0    321.0    321.0    319.0
Breedirg Stock      - Interest 10%          19.2       47.2       5?.0      56.0       46.7       37.4      28.1      18.8       9.5
Principal                                             93.0       93.0       93.0     93.0      93.0      95.0
Short-Term Loan
Feeder Steers       - Interest 10%          1]4.5      43.2       28.8
Principal                      288.0      288.0
Total Debt Service                114.8      555.8      565.2      662.4      621.0      579.6    538.2    496.8    447.1
??ET C1SH SLOlWi AST?E7 DEBT SERVrIC':.       96.7      314.7       56.3        3.1       97.5      369.9    773.3  1,073.7  1,219.1  1,568.5  1,688.5   1,328.5
CIJMUL[ffIVE  ET( CA,SH FLOV                  ?b .7     111.6      667.7      470.8      568.3      938.2  1,711.5  2,785.2  4,004.3  5,572.8  7,061.3   8,439.8
557T CAlS ?LO; TO C-SCCLE OWNEhS-          (6 ?77.3    (353.6 )   (299.3)   (296.2)   (198.7)    171.2    944.5  2,018.2  3,237.3  4,805.8  6,294.3   18,250.8
1/  Includes loan for fencing, firebreaks, gathering yard and crush, watering facilities, equipmient and land survey.  Three years grace on principal,
repayrnent over six years and interest at 10%.
2/  Includes farmer contribution to investment costs.
September 10, 1973



CAMEBOON
LIVESTOCK  RLJELCT
Agricultural Credit Facilities and Project Credit Arrangements
Traditional Sector Credit Program
ProJect Administration Coste (BCD)
(CFAF '000)
Unit                     Year 1                         Year 2                             Year 3                            Year 4                            Year 5 5/
Category                          Cost               No.             Coot           No.               Cost            No.               cost            No.                Cost             No.              Cost
INVESTMENT COSTS
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                  1,300               2             2,hOO           -                 _                _                 _               _                 _                 _               _
Of'ice Equipment                           200               2               50oo          -                 -                -                 -                                   _ 
Subtotal                  -                 -             3,000            -                -                 -                                 -                -                 -                -
OPFRATI1, COSTS
Sal ar ie s
Livestock Development Officers  -         8,000               2            1t,000           2              10, 000             2               lo,000            2               16,000              2              1,800
Livestock Development Technicians         1,500               2             3,000           2                3,000             2                3,000            2                3,000              -               -
Clerks                                      o0O               2             1,200           2                1,200             2                1,200            2                1,200              2              1,200
Drivers                                     hoU               2               800           2                  800             2                  800            2                  800              2                BOa
Subtotal                   _1,00                                           -              21,o00              -              21,000             -              21,000              -               5,600
Hou si ng Allowance_
Livestock Development Ot'ficers_          1,000               ^             2,010           2                2,000             2                2,000            2                2,000              2              1,000
Livestock Development îechniciano           500               2             1,000           2                1,000             2                1,000            2                1,000              -                -
Subtotal                                    -             3,000            -               3,000              -               3,000             -               3,000              -               1,000
Other Expenses
Vehicle Running Co /ts                     -                  -             1,250           -                1,250             -                1,250            -                1,250              -              1,250
Vehicle Replacement   3                    _                  -               520           -                  520             -                  520            -                  520              -                 520
Office Expenses    I                       _                  -               200           -                  200             -                  200            -                  200              -                 200
Internal Flights  -                          30              15              L550          1S                  450            10                  300           10                  300             10                 300
Daily Allowances  /                           5              50               250          50                  250            30                  150           30                  150             30                 150
Sub total                _                  -              2,o70           -               2,670              -               2,420             -                2,420              -              2,420
Total Opera tinu, Couta                 _                                2u,670           -               2o,670             _               20,420            _               26,420              _              9,020
/1 -'ill be replaced in year 5 by       Caumerooniana.
72 25,000 lkn per vehicle per year at CFAF 25 per kNak f'or fuel, ol, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
Z3 20% of eriginal cost beginning with year of acquisition.
/4 Includes credit specia)ist of FONADElR in Yaoundé.
/5 ^redit and field stafl occupied for 2', of tlieir tirie on pruject loanr  and balance on nef  louuas.
September 10, 1973



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
FONADER Traditional Sector and Butcher Loans '
Cash Flow
(CFAF Million)
PY 1     pY 2       PY 3      PY 4      PY 5      PY 6     PY 7       PY 8     PY 9      PY 10      PY il     PY 12       PY 13       PY 14
INFLOW
Principal and Intarest Repayments 2/         -        2.6       11.1      21.1      32.7     39.8      38.8      41.1      42.0       42.0     36.0        28.7        16.0         2.0
Government Loan  3/                          -       31.1      49.7       58.0      67.3     20.6        -          -        -          -         -          -           -           -
Government Grant 4/                        33.2      28.4      28.8       17.6 _-                             -                         -                       _ 
Total Inflow                          33.2      62.1      81.6       96.7    100.0      60.4      38.8      41.1      42.0      42.0      36.0        28.7        16.0         2.0
OUTFLOW
Loans
Capital Ranches                            -      21.2       31.9       37.3     45.8       8.6        -         -         -          -        -           -           -           -
Breeding Stock                             -        4.6       8.1        9.4     11.5       4.0        -          -        -          -         -          -           -           -
Feeder Steers                              -        3.5       7.9        9.5     10.0       4.0        -                        -              -           -           -           -
Butchers                                   -        1.8       1.8        1.8        -        -              -         -         -              -           -           -           -
Sub-total Loans                         -       31.1      49.7       58.0     67.3      20.6        -         -         -          -        -           -           -           -
Loan Reimbursement to Government 3/           -       1.6        2.5       6.9      10.3     11.3      39.2       39.2     39.2       39.2     39.2        39.2        39.2
Administration Operating Costs             33.2      29.4       29.4      29.4       2.0       1.0      1.0        0.5      0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5         0.5          -
Total Outflow                         33.2      62.1      81.6       94.3     79.6      32.9     40.2       39.7      39.7       39.7     39.7        39.7        39.7         2.0
Net Cash Flow                                -         -          -        2.4      20.4     27.5      (1.4)       1.4      2.3        2.3      (3.7)     (11.0)      (23.7)        2.0
Less Bad Debt (2%)                           -        0.1        0.2       0.4       0.7      0.8       0.8        0.8      0.8        0.8       0.7        0.7         0.3          -
Cash Flow After Provision For Debts          -       (0.1)      (0.2)      2.0      19.7     26.7       2.2       0.6       1.5        1.5      4.4       (11.7)      (24.0)        2.0
Cumulative Net Cash Flow                     -       (0.1)      (0.3)      1.7      21.4     48.1      50.3       50.9     52.4       53.9      58.3       46.6        22.6        24.6
1/  Table reflects the following cost increases over base costs for 1973 shown in Tables 1, 4, 7 and 9: civil works - 12%; equipment - 8%; expatriate salaries - 10%; and
operating expenses (fuels, minor equipment) - 20%.
2/  Medium term loans.  Nine year term, grace of three years on principal and interest at 10%; short term loans repayment one year, interest 10%.
3/  Twelve year term, five years grace for principal, 5%h interest.
4/  Expatriate costs and operating bosses for years 1, 2 and 3.
January 31, 1974



CAMIEROON
Livestock Pro ject
Traditional Sector Credit Program
Rate of Return 1/
(CFAF 14illion5)
Py 1    py 2    PY 3    Py 4    Py 5   PYF6  PY 7  PY 8  PYF9  PY110  PY 11  PYF12  Fr 13  PYl14  PY 15-19  PY 20
Costs
Farm and Private Ranch Capital Costs 2/    -        40.9    65.3    76.1    88.4   27.0   -        -      -       -      -       -      -       -        -        -
Farm and Ranch Recurrent Costs 2/            -       1.7      3.7     8.1    31.9   44.4  53.9  55.1   53.3   51.9   49.1   44.8   39.5   33.8          34.5    34.5
Total                                      -      >42.6    69.0    84.2       120.3   71.h  53.9  55.1   53.3   51.9 749.1 3454.8   39.5   33.8    334.5   334.5
Loan Administration 3/                      34 .9    30.9    30.9    30.9      2.1    1.1   1.1   0.5    0.5    _        _       _      _       _        _        _
Total Costs                           34.9    73.5    99.9   115.1   122.4   72.5  55.0  55.6   53.8   51.9   49.1   44.8   39.5   33.8            34.5    34.5
Benefits                                     -       2.0    13.7    31.3    60.3   75.4  84.4  93.6  102.2  114.9  126.3  129.5  127.8  123.1    106.8   310.8
Net Benefits 2/                            (34.9)  (71.5)  (86.2)  (83.8)  (62.1)   2.9  29.4  38.0  1,8.1,  63.0   77.2   80.7   88.3   89.3           72.3   276.3
Rate of Return   12%
1/  The detailed pro ject costs in Tables 1-9 have been aaended to take account of the price increases since the appraisal mission was in the field.  Changes are
as follows:  civil works costs 12%; mchinery and equipment 8p; operating costs, fuels, and pesticides 35%; livestock 15%; and expatriate salaries 10%.
2/ Tables 1, 4, and 7.
3/  Tables 1, 4, and 7.
4/ Table 9.
Narch 1, 1974






ANNEX 6
Page 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTCCK PROJECT
Tsetse-Fly Extermination
A. General
1.        Fourteen species of Glossina have so far been recorded in Cameroon,
all having the capacity to transmit animal trypanosomiasis, though to marked-
ly different degrees. In general terms they fall into three groups, classi-
fied according to the type of tree cover essential for their survival:
(a)  Riverine Species:  G. palpalis, G. fuscipes, G. tachinoides,
G. pallicera, G. p. newstaedi and G. caliginea.
(b)  Savannah species:  G. morsitans, submorsitans and G. longipalpis.
(c)  Forest species:    G. fusca, G. nigrofusca, G. tabaniformis,
G. fuscipleuris, G. haningtoni and G. nashi.
2.        The riverine species are closely dependent on gallery forests or
thickets in the savannah zones and can have a general but low-density dis-
tribution throughout forest zones. They usually have low infection rates
(2-5%) and it is known that indigenous zebu cattle can be fattened and even
bred in the usually low-risk level that exists from these flies in the Guinea
and derived savannahs, with occasional resort to therapeutic support. The
savannah species range freely throughout the savannah zones and carry rela-
tively high infection rates (25%). In particular, Glossina morsitans has a
fundamental impact on traditional husbandry practices by forcing cattle out of
good dry-season pasture areas. Furthermore, the geographical distribution
and local density of this species is continually fluctuating. Glossina longi-
palpis is an even more potent vector of trypanosomes to cattle, but is more
dependent on heavier woodland with forest than is Glossina morsitans. The
forest species except G. fusca are closely dependent on the interior of
mature forests and are therefore unlikely to be of much significance to the
proposed livestock project. Glossina fusca would probably have a significance
for livestock projects similar to riverine species.
The Current Distribution of Glossina Species in Cameroon
3.        The available information is fragmentary and not completely reli-
able. What is actually known of Glossina distribution has been set out on
the attached Map No. 10585. It can be seen that there is a tsetse-free



ANNEX 6
Page 2
corridor extending from Bamenda and the Mambilla Plateau in Nigeria eastward
to the Central African Republic and pressed upon by a G. techinoides/G. mor-
sitans complex to the north and a G. fascipes/G. palpalis/G. longipalpis and
forest species complex to the south. This corridor, the Adamaoua Plateau, is
the country's main cattle-raising area, sheltering about 1.5 million cattle
or about 55% of Cameroon's total cattle population. The Fulbe have settled
homes on the safest parts of the Adamaoua Plateau and send their cattle off
on dry-season transhumance into tsetse-infested areas, whereas the less
settled M'bororos graze their herds in lesa safe areas and, in response to
G. morsitans advances, some of them now visit southeast Cameroon between
Baturi and Ndokayo or the Central African Republic.
4.        The distribution of morsitans is most fluid, but distribution is
relatively static in the case of the other species, which usually suffer re-
gression rather than advance. The problem of G. morsitans became obvious in
the area east of Tignere in the Upper Faro Basin and by 1958 M'bororo inni-
grants from Nigeria were being driven out of that area by progressive advances
of tsetse-flies. The Cameroon Veterinary Service was able to mitigate the
cattle losses to some extent by therapeutic measures; nonetheless, the area no
longer has cattle and the vaccination paddocks along the Beka-Tignere road
are now in disuse and the villages practically abandoned. A similar exodus
of people and livestock in the Mandourou-Moungel region northwest of Ngaoundere
is reported and the infestation has spread into the upper reaches of the Sou-
thern Vina, encroaching also on the Wakwa Research Station.
5.        The present known limit of G. morsitans and the limits of 20 years
ago are shown in Map 10585. This map also indicates that there has been a
substantial advance into the basin of the upper eastern Vina and in the
Mbere river valley in east Adamaoua. Undoubtedly, the Adamaoua Plateau is
being subjected ta substantial encroachment by G. morsitans and there is no
reason to believe that the limits of potential invasion have been reached.
The basic importance of this situation for the traditional livestock sector
is indeed grave and there is a possibility that it may become significantly
worpe.
Impact of Trypanosomiasis on the Traditional System of Cattle Raising
6.        The full impact of trypanosomiasis is masked to a great extent by
the currently well-organized prophylactic and therapeutic coverage given by
Lhe Veterinary Service of Adamaoua.  Before cattle depart on transhumance to
tsetse-fly infested areas they are given a prophylactic dose of isometamidium
(Trypamidium), and on return to tsetse-fly safe rangeland they receive clear-
ing dose of diminazine (Berenil). For control purposes each herd receives a
"Laissez Passer." Even so, the regime does not afford sufficient protection
to cattle residing in areas recently invaded by G. morsitans and it is
estimated that about 20,000 cattle are receiving multiple prophylactic treat-
ments.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        A total of over 900,000 anti-trypanosomiasis injections is now
administered annually by the Adamaoua Veterinary Service, and it is estimated
that about 1.5 million treatments would be needed to satisfy the demand of
only the 1.2 million cattle of the Adamaoua Plateau. Currently, trypanosomi-
asis injections absorb the bulk (84% or CFAF 34 million) of the Service's
funds available for the purchase of vaccines and drugs. Such treatments, how-
ever, are not the complete answer to the steadily increasing trypanosoimiasis
challenge. First, they have to be applied at least twice a year; second,
they do not prevent further tsetse incursions; third, the prophylactic is a
highly irritant drug that damages the steak muscles into which, for practical
reason, these mass treatments have to be administered and consequently a high
proportion of animals is showing temporary lameness; and fourth, it is likely
that the drug resistance of trypanosomes to trypanocidal drugs has already
arisen or will arise, as this has occurred elsewhere in Africa.
8.        On the other hand, it can be said that by preserving through anti-
trypanosomiasis treatments the lives of a large number of cattle that other-
wise would perish or have to be sold, pasture deterioration is accelerating.
This becomes particularly evident in the wet-season cattle concentration areas
of east Adamaoua. Erosion trends are evident and serious bush encroachment by
unpalatable shrubs and fire-tender species such as Rangana trees is progress-
ing.
9.        Mastering the trypanosomiasis problem is essential to the future of
Cameroon's livestock industry. None of the currently available drugs could
be relied upon to make possible the rearing of indigenous Zebu cattle exposed
continually to savannah tsetse flies, though fattening is possible under pro-
phylaxis if measures are taken to suppress these flies to a suitable low
level, or if only forest or riverine species were present. The outlook for
developing an efficient and long-lasting vaccine against trypanosomiasis
is not very promising, since formidable technical problems would have to be
overcome. Thus, if the extermination of tsetse flies proves to be both
technically and economically feasible, this would have to remain the preferred
objective.
The Proposed Large-Scale Commercial Ranches in Relation to Glossina Risk
10.       As indicated in the Map, all proposed ranch sites lie within tsetse-
fly infested zones. However, there is not sufficient information to allow
the undertaking of a precise analysis of the tsetse problem at this stage.
But examination of representative air photographs, ground inspection by the
mission, existing positive tsetse findings and experience in Nigeria make
possible the provisional assessment set out below.
11.       Dumbo Ranch Area.  There is likely to be, at most, a minimal risk
of trypanosomiasis. But the dangerous places are of relatively small extent
in relation to the ranch as a whole and the low-lying forested areas, if
indeed they prove to be infested, could be avoided or exploited seasonally,
eventually applying prophylactic and/or curative treatments.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
12.       Ndokayo Ranch Area.  This area consists of an open-canopied woodland
savannah mosaic of heavily forested surface drainages and streams. The inter-
fluves are occupied by a biotic fire sub-climax becoming more advanced in
southerly areas. The riperian forests are almost certainly infested by G.
fuscipes and the area could also carry infestations of G. longipalpis and
fusca group tsetse, since positive records exist in the neighborhood of the
ranch limits. However, the advanced fire-climax and peasant farming and
hunting activities may have suppressed the last two species, a point suggested
by a brief road survey and meeting several M'bororo herds in excellent condi-
tion. Because of their extent, the forests could not be cleared for an eco-
nomic cost and neither could the forest system be physically isolated and
kept safe from re-invasion following insecticide application which would in
any case be expensive on the scale required. Therefore, the ranch would have
to live with the (probably light) risk from G. fuscipes and the disease
situation would have to be managed with constant surveillance and appropriate
therapeutic support.
13.       Certainly if G. longipalpis is general, which seems unlikely, the
area cannot be considered suitable for the ranching of Zebu cattle but if
this fly and fusca group flies are limited to small pockets they could be
eliminated by knapsack motorized mist blowers using dieldrin emulsion. The
measure could be repeated should reinfestation occur but would not be practi-
cable on an extended scale.
14.       Faro Ranch Area.  G. morsitans appears to be the only tsetse species
in this region. If the proposed tsetse-fly extermination project in the
Faro area proves feasible (para 15), the ranch is scheduled to be established
in PY 4.
Extermination of Tsetse flies in the Upper Faro and Southern Vina Areas
15.       The extermination campaign, including the necessary measures to
protect cleared areas from reinfestation, is described in paras 3.10-3.13 of
the main report, and details on capital and operating costs are shown in
Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. Extermination would be proceeded by a two-year
ecological study on local tsetse flies, the terms of reference of which are
attached to this Annex. Though it is expected that developments in the
cleared areas will principally concern livestock, a balanced program of land
use including agriculture would be necessary and, therefore, a land resources
survey would be financed by the project. The extermination campaign proposed
for the project could be the first stage of a long term program that would
exterminate all G. morsitans and G. tachinoides infestations, over an area
of about 8 million hectares.
Tsetse-fly Extermination - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
16.       Since details for the redevelopment of the cleared area are not
finalized, a rate of return for the campaign has been calculated on a model
that represents a situation of minimal investment and is considered the
lowest estimate for the likely rate of return. The major assumptions are:



DOCUMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DLVELOPMENT
NOT FOR PUBIIC USE
FILE COPY
R74-52-A/1
FROM:  The Secretary                                       March 25, 1974
CAMEROON: Livestock Project
Attached is a copy of Table 2 of Annex 6 of the report entitled
"Appraisal of the Livestock Development ProJect - Cameroon" (295-CM)
which was distributed on March 14, 1974 and from which this table
was inadvertently omitted.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice President, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC






Anexo 6
rIblo 2
LI3STOCr F30JECT
OoCCoo-CO0 Ooîooooinottor
(CF7A   000;
ToI t                               0                           3            ~             ~~~~                                                    ~~~~~~~ 4  S  fi
tstory                                Conit         No,          Coot           9o.         Cost            No.         Cool            No,         Cot             No.         Con             No.         Con-                       TOTAL COST
Noloriooo,,2 Ososo /1
TooNot ]ONoOogNso  /2                         8.00                     8,000            1          8,000                                                                                                                                         1ô,000
Ooooo,oOenNoor roorso  /3                    1,900          -                          1          1.900            -            -              -            -             -             -              -            -                            1900
head of E                Poooooo 4            0,800                       _              1                                    1,800  O  ,,800                              I          1,000            -            -                            7,200
Fiold Cooroollor  451,00                                     -                          1          0,000            0          1.000            1          1,000           i1          1,000            1          0,0005.0
F1 l1  Ass.sas   O6                           1,000                                     4 4        3, 200           4          3.2000           4          37,°n            4          3,200            -            -                           102,800.
Clerk                                           600          -            -             1            600            1            600            1            600 1  NON  0  000  I 608                  -            -                            2,400
Mooooolo                                        500         -             -             -            -              1            500            1            500            1            500            -            -                            1,500
Tsetseourooporo  /7                     200         20          3,000          30          6,000           30          6.000           30          6,000           30          6,000            5          1.000                         10,000
Stoor koopoo       -400                                     -             -             -            -                           400            1            400            1            400            -            -                            1,200
DL,rr                                           400         1             400           3          1,200                          l 3,000       O          3,200            N          3,200            2            500                         12 000
OtCrCs,oC                           ~~~~        ~      ~     ~      ~      ~             ~~300  -  -    2             002                        000            2            600            -                                          ,8000
FexPoro,oot Laborer                             300         3          1,3000          O              0            10          3,000           10          3.000           10          3,000            4          1,800                          5Do
Coooo I loboooo  Il                              10        50             $00         100          1,000          6rn          6 0,000         00          4,000         600           6,000            -            -                           1o,u00
Dmily,AloooorooîI  Nigeria  /9                  -           -             -             -          0,700            -            -              -            -              -            -                           -                            2,700
OoOLoLol                   _            -        14,700            -         30,00             -         26,300            -         26,300            -         26,300                       4,600                        12S,600
of Marolso  010     -            -              -            .             -             -             -          1,500            -          3,000            -          3.000                           0300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,00 
Ceontol of /10hiRoe8r y                         _                         .                                                                                1,200                       2 400            -          0407 '0,00
OfCyiCg Pi-Ns  /11                              -           -             -             -                    -             -            -                    200            -            400            -            400                          1,000
SbUt.oN1                   -           -             -             -                           -            -              -          2.900            -          5,800            -          5,800                         14,500
Ooooîoo CoiNs of Vohiîerr
snd Othor Ogolmment
Foor   loî Do-I OohOrl-  L12                                O            025           2          1,250                       1,0                         0,75             3          1.005            1            625                          0,120
Trook,  (ON>  Lb   -            .            .             -             .             O    ~    ~~~~~~           ~     ~    ~~~~~~          ~     ~ ~~~~~~             ~~~                                             ~ 0,500l  O  1,500  2  1,00  .  ,0
rtuko  150)  /12                                             -             2               25 1,                    2          L,5              2          1,250            2          10 50            2            6                            4 .37
Motoo,y.îoo   /14                               -           2             120           O             120           4            240            4            240           4             240            2            120                          1,050
TonNoNs    fl5                                  -            -            -             -             -             O          0,300            2          1,300            2          0,500            I            050                           5.250
2-00op (2' do Genrit   f1                                                                                                                                                                 75 1  75  1  25  I  S  _                                   225
Pootablo .   l OF oerId oo/00-                                            .                                                       30            I             90            I             190           -2700
Ithen "orrY  /18                                                                        -                           1             050           I            150            I            150            -            -                               450
0000y1.      - Pont9  ,19                       -           -             .             -             .             2            600           4           1,200           4           1,200            4          1,200                          4,200
Nobtotol                   -           -             745           -          1,995            -          7,280            -          7,880            -          7,880            -          2,695                         28,475
oopl 000000 
VehiOloo ind  /qolpooot  /20                    -                         420           _          1,010            -          4,930            -          5,060            -          5,160            -            734                         17,314
GpOero n   Adi miisroîiol
CffiN. NSS                                      -           -.....         50                                       -                                        500  -  500  0              5              -             50                          1,700
Zotorol Pligbts                                  30         -             -             -            -             10            300            O            300            C            180            -            -                               780
SuNtotal                   -            -             50           -            100            -            800            -             00            -            680            -             50                          2,480
2NNîotaO i2 0ooOOC  Con s                       -1)  _                 15,915           -          3,15 5                     39,1 39                     42,940                     45,6720            -         13072 191,369
00oooSC00oooOo 10012,307                                                            -           5,025                      500              -           640             -,83-                                  1,300                         20,011
TOAL OPE0 ATI002  C000T                         -            -         18,302            -         30,530           -         45,207            -         49,381            .         50,693            -         15,267                         219,380
/l    I        folod ls tld sOoaooooomd prooitol' lor ro;  ri, lsai nA oNher  loIiNNOS
20 IOOludAoo/1 on0il orosLit'o10,Ol ,OCinrNSOSrirNOOVoO 2005o tosorooRoo
/3   Iorl,,As   2 O:nths iu  lsP" rooN aN Cf2  600,000 p0r mooto             CFAF 1,200,000
doily sloooooCr 2  -,l  -  00  0,000 00r A.y  CFA0   420,000
1         ro,oroo   i3oN - f ound- P.o- SooLdro            0FAF    50 .0
ToLtL         00.1  1,900,000
he,-l  No   o'oil  -I -'yan   to  r spe     ooold      dY toe-t--,s  orodiraro  pool-os for 6  -onolt in Nig.rli  .Nd sfc          r     oo         o 11   1
NOs  Ioooooogo   N   O  opolo lotols_oaor  tho Cooto_jy   _ororiooo000
/5   Wo.id hs. ooNri      oIlry sopirIrindoîlIellr Id sîodagiximontoohooosooyrN                                                                            lo oioOnOo00
L6   OcolO Ne VoCoriosoy ooo,oAoN0 aoorodo,îg o oixoP h t setseN_   o _ stsvyoro  Noors   in Nigoois -olOoood ùyorit          th iOn-OirvlooOosinono   n C,ooo
77   W-oldrroiooo3ooobio-sooirsrrliogsrd 3e oggNd ass k_llsd lborerd  foor7 oo oo N                        pe sysor
79 ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~ i- II     A - 91                                           f., 7 --h y, f,r the  -rDi                                                        Il -d  i P 1   cn         59vIRf2tas   Ln   x di  iiie   h ld-ry,.
/10 57 of rîtorino rnsts bo0iooirg oit)' year Collooioo oOorOog.
r1O  101 of Coostr,rLion 0000 be01nn100 with ytar Colloot,.g ooooruCNOoN.
/12  25.000 No pot y- . P CFAY 25 poo kg Cor fCol, oil, oroooo, oporo porto 1000 j              d i,toranoO
/04 21s,0no  por  Cbar ao CFA73perNkufor fNel, o30,  orosto. sor porto, rp-             oro ond iOr OOCOOC
/1   0,SOOorNi., hrspfr yC ar dCCO  ,OOOpeopoo   or             io     ; o                       insurmse
710  50noork_  lo., r- p00  yar t CFAV 150 p   hor  for fuel, oil, Nre.ss, o         pro P-rC  andNeOsiNs
717  600 woorkiog    ro prb y-r CFA  150Fero h-ur fo- ful, oil, g8c... .s..p                 -  o-d ropa.is.
18  5,000 No por  _r aN Cr40 30 pe0 kN  for fOtl, oo. goosso  opor, porCs, r                  -pairo  iod  ...001020 pl.. 0FAF 100,000 fCor 1lquid fS.080
-                         ~~~~~~~/10  Ooo,oooO 0040 300,000 p0C 7010 for 8000C040000o ood gosg for ooloo-Ooop,
020  200  of oylg-ool  oor Ooftoooog with 0000 of   qu               is îo ood ogogo Cor Nflly     poiCt.
SoptRAb.r 10, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 5
without the project the area would be grazed by 5,000 cattle with an annual
offtake rate of 9 percent; with the project, the same area by PY8 would carry
120,000 cattle with an offtake of 15 percent per year. The assumed carrying
capacity is a conservative estimate since the region's natural pastures have
the potential to graze one animal on 2.5 ha. The same applies to the increase
in the offtake rate that results from the elimination of tsetse flies.  The
area would be restocked by animals from East Cameroon. Many herds, originally
from the Adamaoua, have migrated to the East with the encroaching tsetse-fly
infestations and their productivity is declining as a result of the effects
of trypanosomiasis and overgrazing. Costs include the tsetse-fly extermination
campaign, the value of animals immigrating into the area, the incremental cost
of herdsmen and expenses for animal health services.
17.       The economic rate of return has been calculated at 14%.  A sensi-
tivity analysis shows that a 10% increase in costs or a 10% decrease in
benefits would reduce the rate of return to 13%. A 20% cost increase com-
bined with a 10% benefit decrease gives a rate of return of almost 10%, and a
10% increase in benefits raises the rate of return to 16%.
18.       The extermination would have considerable indirect benefits, the
most important of which would be: halting the southeastward advance of
Glossina morsitans into the fly-free areas of the Adamaoua Plateau; resettle-
ment by people and cattle of the practically abandoned project area; reduc-
tion of overgrazing in overstocked areas; and saving of cost for anti-
trypanosomiasis treatments.






CAMZROO
1,IV250TCK PROJECT
Toet.e-FNy Eot.rmiooti-o
Copitol Coono and ph-otno
(CFAF '000)
---------------  ----------------------------------------     roe tYea-    -------________________   -    -----------__
U00t                 1                       2                        3                         4                         5                               Tot,l
Coteg-or                                          Cost          No.        Cost          No.        Co_           M.o        Cost          No.        Cost           No.        Cost                    No.        Co6t
Houîino and Stores /1
Cop6tr-ction oE Barrier
Ltnd Cîooriog (ha)  L2                                       2          -           -            -         -            15,000    30,000          15,000    30,000           -           -                    30.000    60,000
Fe-ciog (km)  /3                                           200          -           -            -         -                60    12,000              60    12,000           _           _                       120    24.000
Ooflying oint 001 4                                      1,000          -           -           -          -                 2      7,000              2     2,000                                                 4      4.000
8ubtotal                                                 _           _           _-                        -       44,000            -       44,000           _- _,000
Vehicles lnd E00iff000
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                                1,300          1          1,300        1         1,300              1      1,300           -          -             -          -                          3      3.900
Tr-ok.  ( 7t)                                            2,800          -           -            -         -                 2      3.0                                                                             2     5,600
T-cks  <3t)                                              1,600          -1                                                    1     16,600  1  1,600  -        -             -           -                          2     3,200
Motortycles                                              I10025         2            250         -         -                  2       250           -          -             -           -                          4       500
T-tcno-                                                  1,100          -           -    -                                   2      2.200           -          ---2                                                       2,200
T-o theel Tr-iloro  (3t)                                   250          -           -            -         -                 2        500           _          _             _           _                          2       500
Wo-er Tooko  (1,500 1)                                     200          -           -            -         -                 2        400           -          -             -           -                          2       400
WNter Pump  (2" delivery)                                   50          -           -           -          -                 1         50           -          -             -           -                          I        50
Mist Bl1wer                                                 40          -           -            -         _                 1         40                                                                           1        40
Kn.pso.k Sprayers                                           15          -           -           -          -                20        300           -          -             -          -                          20       300
Portable Field Gener.tor  (46VA)                           200          -           -           -          -                 1        200           _          _            _           _                           1       200
Radio Tolephone                                            600          -           -           -          -                 1        600           -          -             -           -                          I       600
Kithn Trck  /5                                           3000                                                                       3.000                                                                           1
Cooplog 030600000                                          100          1            100        -          -                 1        100           -          -             -           -                          1       200
protectivù Clothfig                                         10          _          _            _          _                30        300           -          -             _           _                        30        300
Unifo- mad Raincoots                                        10          5             50        6            60            200     2,000              50       500             50        500                     300      3,110
Stereoscopic Di...sotngMiroscope                           200          1            200        -          -              -          -              -          -            -           -                                   200
Otnhr Equipment L6                                       -              -            200        -          -              -           800           -          -             -           -                      _         I,000
Spare porns                                              -              -           -           -          -              -           200           -         -             -           -                       -           200
S1ht0t01                                  _              _          2,100         -        2,960           -        19,440           -           500          -            500                   _        25,500
0000000 of lnfoosted A-reas 
(a> Onllooptor Hire Cost
- Spraying of P-oj-no Area (ha)                     0.3           .           -            -          .          260,000    78,000         260,000    78,000        260,000      78,000                 780,000   234,000
- Spr-ying of Are9s S-rrooodihg
the Proje-n Z... (('o)                          0.3           -           -            -          -           45.000    13,500            -          -             -           -                    45,000    13,500
- Spr6ying 0f Borritr (ho>                           0.3           -          -            -          -            15,000     4,500         15,000      4.500          -           -                     30,000      9.000
- Respr-ying of BRinfested Areas (ha)  /0            0.3                      -            -          -              -                      30,000      9.000        50,000      15,000                  30,000    24,000
Tonal hi0e Coot                             -            -           -            -         -           320,000    96,000         305,000    91,500        310,000      93,000                935,000   280,500
(b)  Isetticides and Solv- nts (1)  L9                   0.35          _                       _          _           128,000    44,800         122,000    42,700       124,000      43,400                 374,000   130.900
(c)  Ifîlooplor Foul  /10                                 0.07                      -                 -                 38,400      2,690        36,600      2,560        37,200       2.600                 112,200      7 850
(d)  OPher yiPr C-ontgt-Lcios (20.)                                                                                                 9 3.000                 28,000                    283400                    _         97000
OSnooal                                     -            - t                      -         - t                    175,790                   167,760          -        170,400                    -      513,950
Sobhrtoî Capital CosLs                                     -            -          2,100         -        2,960           -       239,230           -       212,260          -        170,900                    -
Physical Co-tingen-ies  (5%)                               -            -            110         -          150           -         3,170                     2 2,230        _             30                    -        5,690
TOTAL INVSSTMEbT COSTS                                                             2 _  2,210    _        3,110            -      242,400           -       214,490          _        170.930                    _      633,140
/1  Will ho prov- del hy Ooooroooont   stores, for example co lî ho oode avolabl1  nt Wakw= station.
_2  Barrier vood bo obo 2n 120 kO  long ...   2.5 . m wide e 30,000 ho;  oloaoio .o..Id be done by contracor sig
choin do6ing (ton D7 ct-rpilla,r nrocto0s0nd 6 100 m logoonhornhoio>.
/3  IcO,odoo Oociog materisl (meto1ic 00000> ond lahor cosn L.       ~       4000  04
L4  Includes ono kr,oi, 1 goto, 1  .Il shed/se   d 2    ng-fgs a  CFAF 40,000  -h.
75Inol,doo g600 cooking roogo. refrigerstor, bottle 00o1er. etc.
/6  Includes porchase 0f entomological equipment and O-osooosp      filod  -p0..... ..... msing equipmnt,
maps and 000001 phonos, 200 mochonos, 100 m on ks. 50 loc61  axes. toolO for o-Ol-nic et-.
/7  Bosed on Nigerian roperi 00000.  4000 6 00 10at  IOC othe area is infested o-ih  tsetse-rlies, 0r:e hoelidopnhr n-t     consisting
of 7 helicopters non cloor ah0u0 360,000 ho p-r yea0  per .pooyioo  l00          st0, 1 i0 g frop December to March  provided oooh
helicopter makes 300 flioht 1--000o, the osolpti-on that around 300 flight ho-ro per hplocopoor per Pl.,     ason     h c6  be fl
the cost per ho oproyed  tmountst  CFAF 3,000 or to CFAF 300 por ho of reclaimed lod.   4his over0  hir- ch-rge for two hoihoopt.ro i-nclun1g
2 plloro, I me040ni00 coopinO equipment forcrew, -obile -orkghop and sparep-t,s.
L8 Aooo,oos that00 10ou IOT. of reas cleorod fr0m tsetse-fCles w1l1 he reifoested hetOyeen oprOying oeRoono.
/9  4 I Dieldin 207 ULV per ho op-ayfd.
/j10 i.2~ 1 p- ho sproy.d;  Coo f.I      4000-    0-000  0f lohboi-o..
71 - Ruming î-to Ko nod ecilclo  for mîsnhbosrol h-p-k i            pui yootb
/12 Not applied to spraying of fnfested sres. 
SoptOoble  10, 1973






CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Tsetse-Flv Extermination
Rate of Return
Before
Unit          Development         py 1           PY 2          PY 3           PY 4            PY 5             pY 6            py 7          PY 8-19          pY 20
Benefits
Cattle Population (beginning of year)  1/                     Head             5,000.0         5,000.0       5,000.0        5,000.0        5,25 .0        35,67 .          68,574 0        104,006.0       120,000.0       120,000.0
-{erd Increase                                                                                                                  5.0       ~      .0             ?:Ô              8.0              6.o            - 
Herd Increase                                                 Head                -               -             -             250.0          420.0         2,854.0          5,482.0          6,240. 
Cattle Immigration (during the year) 2/                       Head                -               -             -              -          30,000.0        30,000.0         30,000.0         10,000.0            -
Cattie Population  (end of the year)                          Head             5,000.0        5,000.0        5,000.0       5,250.0        35,670.0        68,524.0       104,000.0         120,000.0      120,000.0       120,000.0
Cattle Sales 3/                                                 %                  9.0             9.0           9.0            4.0             5.0            6.o              7.0               9.0           15.0            15.0
Cattle Sales                                                  Head               450.o          450.0          450.0          200.0          263.0         2,140.0          4,797.0          9,607.0       18,000.0        18,000.0
Cattie Sales j/                                           CFAF Milliop            17.6            17.6          17.6            7.8            10.2           83.7            187.6            417.0           704.0           704.0
--------------lio-s------------------------------------------------------CFAF Millions---------------------------------                                       -
Incremental Benefits
Incremental Cattle Sales                                                          -               -             -              (9-8)           (7-4)          66.1            170.0            399.4           686.4           686.4
Incremental Residual Herd Value 5/                                                _               _             _                             _               _3,o42.0
Total Ineremental Benefits                                                      -               -             _              (9-8)           (7-4)          66.1            170.0            399.4           686.4        3,728.4
Costs
Tsetse Fly Externination 6/                                                                       18.6           40.5         327.4          300°4           251.2             19.7             19.7            19.7            19.7
Cattle and Husbandry Costs
Cattle Migrating to the Area 5/                                                   _               _      -                     -             793.5           793.5            793.5            264.5            -
Animal Health Service 7/                                                           1.0             1.0           1.0            1.0             1.1            7.1             13.7             20.8            24.0            24.0
Herdsmen 8/                                                                        o.8             0.8            0.8           0.8             0.9            6.0             11.4             17.3            20.0            20.0
Subtotal                                                                         1.8             1.8           1.8            1.8          795.5           806.6            818.6            302.6            44.o            44.o
Incremental Cattle and Cattle Hnsbandry Costs                                     -                                _ __                       793.7          804.8            816.8            300.8            42.2             42.2
Total Incroerntal Costs                                                         -               18.6           40.5         327.4        1,094.1         1,056.0            836.5            320.5            61.9            61.9
Net Increimntal Benefits                                                        _              (18.6)         (40.5)       (337.2)      (1,101-5)         (989.9)          (666.5)            78.9           624.5         3,666.5
Rate of Return 14%
1/ Assumes a carrying capacity of the reclaimed area of about 100,000 animal units or of 8 ha per A.U.
2/  Assunes immigration of total traditional herds.
3/  Applies only on cattle population beginning of year.
4/  Assumes 340 kg liveweight per animal at CFAB 100 per ki .
5/ Assumes CFAF 23,000 per head.
J/  Does not include physical contingencies.
7/  Assumes CFAF 200 per head per year.
8/  Asswmes one herdsman for 60 cattle at CFAF 10,000 per year.
February 27, 1974






ANNEX 6
Appendix
Page 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Tsetse-fly Extermination
Terms of Reference for the Tsetse Fly Ecologist
and the Tsetse-Fly Extermination Specialist
I.   Objective
To collect and prepare information for a tsetse-fly extermination
campaign in the Upper Faro and Southern Vina areas, and to review measures
to overcome any tsetse challenge likely to be encountered in establishing
the Ndokayo ranch. The survey and planning would take about two years and
would begin by January 1974.
II.  Summary Work Description of the Study
A team of trained field staff working under an experienced tsetse
ecologist would determine the distribution and ecological associations of
different tsetse-fly species and in particular would:
(a) establish the distribution and nature of tsetse-fly infesta-
tions within, and for a distance of 10 km around the proposed
ranches at Ndokayo and Dumbo;
(b)  establish accurately the limits of morsitans infestations
affecting the northern part of the Adamaoua Plateau in the
basins of the upper Faro, Nolti, Benue, Eastern Vina, Mbere
and Mgou rivers;
(c)  determine the extent of morsitans affecting the southern
Adamoaua, particularly the focus on the Marel River and any
possible relationship between this and infestations on the
Upper Southern Vina and Djerem valleys;
(d) determine the significance of the incidence of longipalpis
and fusca group flies for the project;
(e) determine in the upper Faro the relationships of morsitans
to differentiated and undifferentiated savannah woodland,
woodland, cltup thickets and the different types of forest
elements;



ANNEX 6
Appendix
Page 2
(f)  determine the most appropriate location and dimensions for
a perimeter barrier for the upper Faro area;
(g)  plot all confirmed data of tsetse-fly incidence and maintain
a system to record all survey information and reports;
(h) advise the Ministry of Livestock on the establishment and
direction of its Trypanosomiasis Division; and
(i)  training Cameroonian tsetse-fly survey and extermination terms.
III. Qualifications for the Tsetse Ecologist and Extermination Specialist
The ecologist should have an appropriate university degree
(veterinary science or entomology) and at least four years experience
with Glossina in Africa. Experience with veterinary aspects of trypano-
somiasis and tsetse-fly extermination would be an additional, but not
essential qualification. The extermination specialist would be similarly
qualified, but would also have expérience in tsetse eradication campaigns
under West Africa conditions.
IV. Equipment for the Study
The tsetse ecologist would bé based at Ngaoundere. He would use
offices, laboratory space and equiüpmènt of the Ministry of Livestock. For
his field investigations he would have a four-wheel-drive vehicle and camping
equipment.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SODEPA - Ranches
Detailed Features
Nlokayo - Fattening Ranch
1.        This ranch would be in the Eastern Province, in the triangle Ndokayo-
Gabong-Ndangana Gandima.  It would be borded on the west by Route Nationale
No. 1 and on the east by the minor road from Batouri to Ndokayo.  There is
an airstrip in Ndokayo and the nearest railway station is at Goyoum, about
85 km west. Cattle would either be trucked by road or shipped to the south
from Goyoum by the Trans-Cameroonian railway.
2.        The topography of the ranch site is a rolling plain, about 900 m
high and intersected by rivers and low hills. The Oudou river system runs
through the site from southwest to northeast. Annual rainfall varies between
1,500 and 1,800 nm and the average temperatures of about 24'C have very low
daily and seasonal fluctuations.  It has a typical four-season equatorial
climate with the main rainy season from September to October. Vegetation
consists of open-woodland fire-climax savannah with heavily forested gallery
forests which lie relatively close together. Hyparrhenia and Bracharia grass
species dominate, followed by Panicum, Digitaria, Paspalum, Andropogon and
Imperata sp. There are few legumes. Carrying capacities are 2-3 ha per
animal unit and pasture remains green for 9-10 months of the year.  Tsetse-
flies are likely to be present (Annex 6, para. 12), and it is assumed that
limited prophylactic and curative treatments against trypanosomiasis would
be necessary.
3.        The site is lightly grazed during the dry season by nomadic M'bororo
herds and, apart from small villages along the two roads from Ndokayo to
Bertoua and Batouri, is unsettled. Land would be set aside for the villagers.
The people living in the area are settled Baya who earn their livelihood
through farming and hunting.
4.        Feeder steers for the ranch would be purchased mainly from the
Meiganga area in the north but also from cattle on transhumance in the area.
Since the cattle population of the Meiganga region and the Eastern Province
is estimated at over 500,000 head and demand for feeder steers in these zones
is practically nil, it is anticipated that the ranch can purchase good quality
steers at reasonable prices.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Faro - Breeding Ranch
5.        This ranch would be sited on the Adamaoua Plateau about 70 km west
of Ngaoundere. It would be borded on the south and southeast by the Faro
River, on the west by the road from Ngaoundere to Tignere, on the northeast
by the Fam River, and on the north by a track from the Fam River via Gjinga
to its junction with the Ngaoundere-Tignere road 9 km south of Tingere. The
main cc"'-, Lications would be with Ngaoundere, which is the railhead of the
Trans-Cameroonian railway. Slaughter cattle would be transported to the
south by rail via Ngaoundere.
6.        The area is a flat plateau at an altitude of about 1,000 m, with
hills rising to 1,200 m and dissected by many strips of gallery forests along
the southeastward flowing rivers. The climate is drier and cooler than the
Ndr -q7o ranch site.  Annual rainfall amounts to 1,400-1,600 mm, half of which
falis from July to September.  Rainfall practically disappears in December,
January and February and the ecological dry season lasts about four months,
from December to March. The interfluves consist of tree savannah with trees
reaching 10 m and frequently in small pockets. There is fire-climax grassland
consisting mainly of Hyparrhenia sp. but also including a high proportion of
more palatable grasses such as Pancicum and Andropogon species. Legumes are
practically non-existent. Overall carrying capacity is about 3 ha per animal
unit. Because of heavy infestation by Glossina morsitans the area has been
abandoned. Under the project the Faro area as a whole (Map, Annex 6) is
designated to be cleared of tsetse-flies. However, the use of drugs against
trypanosomiasis is likely to be required when the ranch development begins
in PY 4.
7.        The ranch site is not populated, but in nearby hills small villages
are settled by Foulbe farmers. Breeding and fattening cattle for the ranch
would be obtained from Central and West Adamaoua, which have an estimated
cattle population of 700,000 head.
Dumbo - Breeding Ranch
8.        The location of this ranch would be on the Dumbo plain in the northern
part of Northwestern Province. It would be bordered on the east by the road
from Missaje to Dumbo, on the south by the ring road, on the west by the Kumbi
River Fauna Reserve, and on the north by the Kendata River.
9.        Topographically, the area is an undulating plain at an altitude
between 850 and 1,200 m. Annual rainfall oscillates around 2,000 mm and the
climate is cool for West Africa. Woodland occurs in pockets and in narrow
strips along rivers. The pastures have a stocking rate of about 3 ha per
animal unit and grass communit±es are dominated by four different Hyparrhenia
species. There is likely to be only a minimal risk of trypanosomiasis (Annex
6, para. 11). Breeding and fattening stock for the ranch would be obtained
inside Northwest Province, which has a cattle population of about 250,000
h ea d.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Ranch Implementation and Management
10.       The establishment of the Dumbo and Faro breeding ranches (Tables
1,2 and 3, this Annex) is scheduled to begin in PY 1 and PY 3, respectively.
They would aim to produce improved breeding heifers and bulls and 1-2 year-
old feeder steers for future livestock development activities. At full
development by ranch development year 8, each ranch would carry about 11,400
cattle, including 4,500 cows. Total annual output per ranch would amount to
35% and would consist of about 670 breeding heifers, 730 breeding bulls, 740
feeder steers and 660 finished slaughter cattle. The ranches would be stocked
with Zebu Foulbe of Adamaoua (Goudali); for this purpose, about 11,600 heifers
and 350 bulls would be purchased in local markets over a six-year period.
11.       Improved nutrition would be obtained by rotational grazing, herding
control, controlled burning, standing-hay reserves for dry season grazing,
and mineral supplements. Calving season would be at the beginning of the
main rainy season, thus relating the herds' nutritional peak needs to the
highest pasture quality. The cattle would be kept in groups according to sex,
age and production targets. Modern stock-handling yards, including four
separated paddocks, would facilitate cattle sorting, weighing, branding, wean-
ing, castrating, vaccinating (against haemorrhagic septicaemia, blackwater,
anthrax and, where necessary, trypanosomiasis and brucellosis), drenching for
internal parasites, and dipping for ticks. Until the stabilization of the
breeding herd by ranch development year 8, 1-1/2 to 3 year old feeder steers
would be purchased annually for fattening. Over a 20-24 month period they
would increase their liveweight by about 200 kg per animal.
12.       The Ndokayo fattening ranch (Tables 4,5 and 6, this Annex) would
start in PY 2. Grazing and herd management would be the same as for the two
breeding rinches but without the extra requirements for breeding and young
stock. Some 4,000 1-1/2 to 3 year old feeder steers would be purchased each
year, and fattened over 20-24 months, adding around 200 kg. The ranch would
build up to about 8,000 head and would have a yearly selling rate of almost
50%. Purchases of feeder steers and sales of finished cattle would take
place mainly toward the end of the dry season and at the beginning of the
rainy season, when prices of lean cattle are usually the lowest and those of
fat cattle the highest.
13.       On-ranch investments would be the same for all three ranches and
in each case would extend over three years. They would comprise roads and
tracks, fences and fire-breaks, stock-handling and watering facilities, dips,
ranch buildings, vehicles, equipment, foundation stock and feeder steer
purchases. Construction work would be carried out mainly by contractors and
casual labor which would be supervised and assisted by the ranch personnel.
14.       To prevent invasion of neighboring cattle into the ranch areas,
prefabricated suspension fences with alternate steel posts would be erected.
Furthermore, the ranches would be subdivided into 1,000-1,500 ha grazing units.
Where practicable, eucalyptus trees and living posts (for example, Commiphora



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Kerstingii.) would be planted for post replacement and shade. The construc-
tion of fences would take place only where absolutely necessary. It is
assumed th't some gallery forests could serve as natural bounds, mainly for
internal subdivision of the rangeland. Each grazing block would be provided
with at least one improved watering point. Watering coats would be relatively
low due to the permanent surface vater in the many creeks and rivers in the
area.



T ab =.e 
CA14EIOOI
IaVFzrOCK PRi=C
SODEPA Ranches
Breedjng Rlanch Ciambo end IFaro) - 20.000 ha
------------------------ d Of Year ---------------------
PRE,DEV.          I         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9    10*20
............................................
NERO COMPOSITION
RREEOING COWS                   O     3000      4448      4470 " 3902         4390      44?0      4470      4470      4410      4470
RLULLS                          O       120      178       179       156       176       179       179       179       179       179
CALVES                          O         O     1833      2958      3100      2706      3045      3100      3100      3100      3100
9424 MONTH MEIFERS              O         0         O      889      1435      1503      1312      1477      1503      1503      1503
9124 MONTH STEERS               O         O         O      445       717       752       656       738       752       752       752
P4,36 MONTH  4EIFERS            O         o         o         O      862       507       569       738       791       792       792
FAITFNINO CULL FFM              O         0      432       647       434       189       213       347       520       564       564
TOTAL NUMBERS                   O      10       50         69        56       757       79        74        6215      826       8260
(TnTAL ANIMAL$)                 O     3120      6891      9587    10606    10223    10444    11049    11315    11359    11359
PURCHASEn STEERS                O     2000      2000      1694       711       5r8       707       225         O         O         O
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS              O     5120      6842      8000      80         00       60         00       75         9        77
MLJRTALITY
RREEOING COWS                   O         O       20 1; ..  33       134       117       132       134       134       134       134
RIJLLS                          O         O         5         S         5         5        5         5         5         5         5
CALVERS                         0         O      117       156       163       142       160       163       16.3      163       163
wEANFR                          0         o         O       55        89        93        81        VI        93        93        93
9.24 MONTS HEIFERS              O         O         O         O       27        43        45        39        44        45        45
9-24 MONTHI STEERS              O         o         O         O        13       22        23        20        22        23        23
94-36 MONTS HEIFFRS             O         O         O         O         O       26        15        17        22        24        24
FATTENING CIJLL FEM             O         O         o         6        10         7         3         3        S           
SUBITOTAL                       O                 2         4         8         1         2         1         3         3         3
PURCHASEO STEERS                O         O        80       60        51        21        17        21         7         O         O
......  ;  ..  -  ..  ;  ..  ;  ..  ;...
TOTAL                                     0       05       25        2020                 40       20        20        29        29
P UR C HASE S
RREEI1ING A0E HEIFERS           O     3000      2000       80;2         O        O         O         O         O         O         O
RULLS                           O      120         74        23         9       47        43        40        40        40        40
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SUe-TOTAL                       O     3120      2074       826         9        47        43        40        40        40        40
,TE ERS                         O     2000      2000      169ê4      7Il       57e       707       225         O         O 
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TOTAL                           O     5120      4074      2520       719       624       750       265        40        40        40
SALES
RULLS                           O         O        12        1        26        23        34        35        35        35        35
MALE YEARLINGS                  o         o         O      435       7U2       735       642       722       735       735       735
2436 MONTIH HEIFERS           O         O         O         O         O      865       890       535       641       666       666
2e4-36 MONTI4 STEERS            o         o         o         o      431       696       729       637       716       729       729
36-48 NONTH HEIFERS
CULI                           O         O        O         0         O        42        67        71        62        69        71
FATTENINE. CLJLL FEM            O         O         O      426       637       427       186       210       342       512       555
SUB-TOTAL                       O                  2       88        77       20        24         29       51       24        2;71
PUJRCHASEO  STEERS              O         O     1920      1940      1643       689       560       686       218         o         o
TOTAL                           O                92       21         40       39        30         85      24         77       29
PRO0[JCTIQN DATA
RIRTI4 RATE 1               0.00      000       5.0      7003.00             73.00    73.00    73.00    73.00    73.00    73.00
CALF MORTALITY X            0.00      7.00      6.00      5.00      5.00      5,00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00     5.00
AOLILT MORTALITY 6          0.00      4.00      4.00      3.00      3.00      3.00      3.00      3.00     3.00       3.00     3.00
FXTRACTI<1N RATE 6          0.00      0.00      0.24    13.92    24.65    37,82    34.95    26.40    31.81    34.43    34.98
TOT. OUTPUT RATE %          0.00      0.00      0.24    13.92    24.65    37.62    34.95    28.40    31.81    34.43    34.98
COWS/TOTAL MERn 6           0.00    96.15    64.55    46.62    36.79    42.95    42.80    40.46    39.50    39.35    39.35
8ULL/COW RATIO %            4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00
COW CULLING RATE %          0.00      0.00    15.00    15.00    10.00         5.00      5.00      8.00    12.00    13.00    13.00
BULL CIJLLINO NATE X        0.00      0.00    10.00    10.00    15.00    15.00    20.00    20.00    20.00    2U.00    20.00
MEIFER CUILLINO RATE R  0.00          0.00      0.00      0.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00     5.00
SiOCRING RATE HA/A#U.  <1.00          3.91      2.92      2.50      2.50      2.50      2.50      2.50      2.51      2.51     2.51
STOCNING RATE A,IJ./HA  0.00          0.26      0.34      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40
CARRYINO CAP. A.1<.            .0     8000      ao 8000 800          000      8000      8000      6oo 000 800          000     8000
September 10, 1973



LIV1TOCI PROJ1CT
SODEPA Ranches
Breeding Ranch (Dumbo and Par.) - 20.000 ha
Invetaent Coste
_________________----Y-ar o! L`evelopment--------------------
Unit        ------1-------             ------2------             ------3-------       -----Total------
Category                                                        Cost         No.       Cost            No.        Cost            No.       Cost    Units           Cost
Buildings 1/
Houses - Manager                                              4,000          1       4,000            -                                      -          1        4,000
- Assistant Manager                                    2,000         1        2,000            -          -              -           -           1       2,000
- Veterinary Assistant                                 1,000         1        1,000            -          -              -           -           1       1,000
- Clerk                                                1,000         1        1,000            -           -             -           -1                  1,000
- Skilled Labor 2/                                       500         8        4,000             4       2,000                        -          12       6,000
- Herdemen/Labor;rs/Guards                               100        30        3,000            10       1,000            -           -          40       4,000
Office                                                        1,000          1       1,000            -           -              _          -           1       1,000
Store                                                         i,010          1       1,000            -           -              -           -          1        1,000
WOrkshop                                                      1,000          1       1,000            -           -              -          -           1       1,000
Sub Total                                                        18,000                      3,000                       -                   21,000
Fencing (km) 3/                                                    80         50       4,000            50        4,000            50        4,000      150       12,000
Stock Handling Facilities
Dlips      R2,500                                                            2       5,000            -           -               1        2,500        3        7,500
Gathering Yards, Cattle Crushes and Loading Ramps             1,500          2       3,000            -           -               1       1,500         3        4,500
Sub Total                                                         8,000            -           -               1       4,000                12,000
ROads, Tracks and Firebreaks
Roads (s)                                                       100         10       1,000            -           -              -          -          10        1,000
Tracks (km)                                                      60        30        1,800            20       1,200            -           -          50       3,000
Firabreaks (lm)                                                  20         50       1,00o            50        1,000            -          -         100        2,000
Sub Total                                                         3,800                      2,200                       -                   6,000
llatering Facilities
ixed Ptump Stations 4/                                        1,000          1       1,000            -           -             -           -           1       1,000
Portable Pump Units                                             300          1         300             1          300            -          -           2          600
Water Trailers (2,000 1)                                        500          1         500             1          500            -          -           2       1,000
Troughs                                                         100         10       1,000            10        1,000            -          -          20       2,000
Sub Total                                                         2,800                      1,800                       -                   4,600
Vehicles and Sqiçnt
Landrovr or  equivalent)                                      1,300          1       1,300            -           -              -          -           1       1,300
Lorry (7 ton)                                                 2,200          1       2,200            -           -              -          -           1        2,200
Motorcycles                                                     125          2         250             2          250            -          -           4          500
Tractor (60-70 hp)                                            1,100          1       1,100            -           -             -           -           1       1,100
frailer (5 ton)                                                 350          1         350            -           -              -          -           1         350
Disc Plough                                                     150          1         150            -           -              -          -           1          150
Disc Harrows                                                    200          1         200            -           -              -          -           1          200
Weighing Scales                                                 550          1         550             1          550            -          -           2        1,100
Workshop Squipment                                              300          1         300            -           -              -          -          -          300
Veterinary Fquipment                                            100          1         100            -           -              -          -          -          100
Office Equipment                                                150          1         15o            -           -              -          -                      150
Lighting Plant                                                  200          1         200            -           -              -          -           1          200
Radio Telephone                                                 600          1         600            -           -              -          -           1          600
Other Equipment                                                 400         -          400            --                                                           400
Spare Parts                                                     4°                                          -                400
Spara Parts                                    ~~~~        ~~         ~~~~           ~     ~~400  -  400  -  -   -          -          -400
Sub Total                                                         8,250                        800                       -                    9,050
Horses and Tackle                                                  30         10         300            10          300            -          -          20          600
Purchase of Cattie
Breeding Heifers                                                 22     3,000       66,ooo         2,000      44,000           802       17,644    5,802      127,644
Breeding Bulls                                                   50        120       6,ooo            74       3,700             23       1,150       217      10,850
Feader Steers                                                    18      2,000      36,000          2,000      36,000            -          -       4,000      72,000
Sub Total                                             5,120     108,000         2,074       83,700           825      18,794        -      210,494
TOTAL INVFSTHENT COSTS                                          153,150                     95,800                    26,794               275,744
/ With the exception of houses for the manager and assistant manager, all other houses
are built under the supervision of the ranch manager by direct labor or small
contractors and mainly with traditional materials.
2/ Houses for 1 mechanie, 1 mason/carpenter, 1 storekeeper, 4 drivers and 5 head herdsmen.
3/ Includes line cutting with heavy equipment (CFAF 3,000/km) and labor.  Full
perimeter fencing is not required initially and will be completed out of profits in
late years. Paddocks will be located to provide perimoter fencing wherever possible.
W Includes pumps, engine, shelter, piping and reservoir.
September 10, 1973



Ulffl 7
CAME3M                                                                                   Table 3
LIVIITOCIK P20JXCI
SODEPA  anches
BreedinR Ranch (Dumbo and Faro) - 20.000 ha
Incm ..    p0eating Costs
Unit      --------_-------_--------------------Year of Developent---------------------
Gotogory                                                      Cost         1          2          à                                 6          7           8          2       10-20
A. Inocome
Sales - COuled Bulls                                     50          -          600        850      1,300       1,150      1,700      1,750      1,750       1,750      1,750
- Male Yearlings                                   12          -          -        5,220      8,424      8,820       7,704      8,664      8,820      8,820      8,820
- Breeding Heifers                                 22          -          -          -          -       19,470      19,580     11,770     14,102     14,652     14,652
- Breeding Bulls                                  30           -          -          -       12,930     20,880      21,870     19,110     21,480     21,870      21,870
- Colle. Hleifers                                 32           _          _          _          -        1,344       2,144      2,272      1,984       2,208      2,272
- Culled Cows                                     30           _          -       12,780     19,110     12,810       5,580      6,300     10,260     15,360     16,650
- Purchased Steers                                40           -       76,800     77,600     65,720     27,560      22,400     27,440      8,720        -           -
Total Income                                        -       77,400      96,450    107,484     92,034     80,978      77,306     67,116     64,660     66,014
B. Operating Costs       1/
SIarlaris and Wages
Manager 2/                                                       6,000      6,000      6,000      6,000       1,400      1,400      1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400
Assistant Manager                                     800          800        800        800        800         800        800        800        800         800        800
Veterinary Assistant                                  600          600        600        600        600         600        600        600        600         600        600
Clerk                                                 600          600        600        600         600        600        600        600        600         600        600
Skilled Lsbor                                         400        4,000      4,800      5,800      4,800       4,800      4,800      4,800      4,800       4,800      4,800
Berdenen/Iaborere/OooOOO                              300        9,000     12,000     12,000     12,000      12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000      12,000
Sob Total                                         21,000     24,800     24,800     24,800     20,200      20,200      20,200    20,200     20,200     20,200
Maintenance
Bulîdings 3/                                                       -          900      1,050      1,050      1,050       1,050      1,050      1,050      1,o5o       1,050
Fencing 3/                                                         -          200        400        600         600        600        600        600         600        600
Stock Haidling Facilities 3/                                       -          400        400        600         600        600        600        600         600        600
Roads, Tracks and Firebreaks 3/                                    -          190        300        300         300        300        300        300         300        300
Water Tro9ghs 3/             -                                     -           50        100        100         100        100        100        100        100         100
Sub Total                                            -        1,740      2,230      2,650      2,650       2,650      2,650      2,650      2,650       2,650
Hunning Costs of Vehicles and Other quipoment
Landro er (or equivalen /                                          625        625        625        625         625        625        625        625         625        625
Truck 51/                                                          750        750        750        750        750         750        750        750        750         750
OMotorcycles 6/                                                    120        240        240         240        240        240        240        240         240        240
T3actor 2/                                                         750        750        750        750        750         750        750        750        750         750
Lighting Plant 8/                                                  225        225        225        225         225        225        225        225         225        225
Fixed Pmp Stations 8/                                              225        225        225        225         225        225        225        225         225        225
Portable Pump Units j/                                              75        150        150        150         150        150        150        150        150         150
Sub Total                                          2,770      2,965      2,965      2,965      2,9f5       2,965      2,965      2,965      2,965       2,965
Replacement
Vehi^les and Eqipment 1/                                         2,010      2,330      2,330       2,330      2,330      2,330      2,330      2,330       2,330      2,330
General administration
land Rent 1V/                                                      200        200        200         200        200        200        200        200         200        200
Office Expenses/sadio Telephnoe                                    300        600        600         600        600        600        600        600         600        600
Sub Total                                            500        800        ôOO        800        800         000        800        a00        800         100
Animal Health
Insecticides 12/                                        0.30     1,536       ,667      3,384      3,395       3,240      3,345      3,362      3,395      3,408       3,408
Vaccines and Drugs 13/                                  0.30     1,536      2,667      3,384      3,395       3,240      3,345      3,382      3,395       3,408      3,408
M3nerals 15/                                            0.15       768      1,334      1,692       1,698      1,620      1,673      1,691      1,697       1,704      1,704
Sub Total                                         3,840       6,668      8,460      8,488      8,100      8,363       8,455      8,407      8,520      8,513
Purchose of LivesLook
Br.eding Heifers                                       22                     -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -
Breeding Bulle                                         50          -             -                  0450      2,350      2,150      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000
Peeder Steers                                          18          -          -       30,492     12,798      10,540     12,726      4,050        -           -          -
Sub Total                                           _           -       3_o,492    13,248     12,755     14,876       6,050      2,000      2,000       2,000
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                            30,120     3',303      72,097     55,281     49,799     52,184      43,450     39,432     39,465     39,465
1/ Inoludee provision for medical, leave, superannuat2on, and other allowonces.
2/ Expatriate wo-ld be replaoed by a Cameroonian in Year 5.
/ 5%of conetruction cost beginning with year following constructso.
25,000 lok/year at OFAF 25 per ke for fue1, oil, grease, spare parts, repairo and insu0a0ce.
/ 25,000 ko/year at CFAF 30 per kl for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repaîrs ood  ooronos.
6/ 15,000 loeyear at CFAF 4 per lm for fuel, oil, grosse  spore parts, repaLro and insurance.
7/ 1,500 w rking hors per year at CFAF 500 per hoor for fuel, oil, grease, spare parto ond r.pairs.
i/ 1,500 worklng hours per year at OFAF 150 per hour for fuel, oil, grease, spore ports and repairs.
9/ 500 worldkg houre per p-o.p per yea   t CFAF 150 per hour for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
15/ 20% of original oost beginning with year of acqoisioios.
'CFAF 10 per ha per year.
jOFAF 300 per head per year. Dipping tlice  eekly for 26 weeks and once fortnightly for 26 weeks.
_CFAF 300 per head per year. Vaccination against blackwater and haemorrhagic septioaemia twie p.r year
anmd anthrax once per year plus prophylactic, and ecentally some curative treametnts Ogais.t trypanosomiasis
and drenching aga.iet internal parasites.
lW  5 kg rock salt per head per year at CFAF 30 per kg.
Septeeber 10, 1973



CAMEROON
IlVESOCK PROdECT
SODEPA Ranches
Fattening Ranch (Ndokayo) - 20.000 ha
Herd Projection
----------     -  Beginning of rainy season                -
CATEGORY                                Unit            1              2              3              4            5-20
Herd Composition
Feeder Steers           1.5-3 years               head          4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000           4,000
Steers                  2.5-4 years               head            -            3,800          3,840          3,880           3,880
Total Animal Units                        A.U.          4,000           7,800          7,840          7,880          7,880
Mortality
Feeder Steers           1.5-3 years               head            200            160            120             120            120
Steers                  2.5-4 years               head            -              114             77              78             78
Total Deaths                                               200            274            197            198            198
Purchases
/1
Feeder Steers           1.5-3 years               head          4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000
Sales
Steer3                  3.5-5 years -             head            -            3,686         3,763          3,802            3,802
Hides-3                                           No.             150            206           148             149             149
Production Data
Mortality Rate
(a)  Feeder Steers   2-3 years                                    5              4             3             3                3
(b)  Steers           3-4 years                  70               -              3             2             2                2
Stocking Rate /4                                  ha/A.U.           5.0            2.6            2.5           2.5             2.5
Offtake Rate                                       %               46.8           47.5          48.2           48.2            48.2
/1 The bulk of the feeder steers would be purchased in the first 6 months of the year and mainly in April, May, June.
/2 Steers would be fattened for about 2 years and sold, when prices are best, usually before and et the beginning of
the rainy season.
/3 757/ of death steers.
/4 Stocking rate varies during the year, but is highest at the beginning of the rainy season.                                        la
Septemeber 10, 1973



c   -.-j.- h..   -0   o  oOoFo<oCoo.-0'-00.o-1o0  O  on  -IOnS   O  ro '0.-b    O             100  0.1 l'0 ch  00.00        o  c
O   04.0,0  -    O        C  0000.O000...1n'1'1000   0          Smo..'.  O      "-'10  0        00-  I-t 0  C  000,          0  0.
0' 00'0.0i-b0l00.00000l10   0' 0  O<r'10   O  0  000   O  0' W,1'0  O  10  0' '100                 0  -
-.0000      0.00    r.  '10r.-0'O00OO0,-'-00 0. k-'- r.  50.-,0   o  r.  000.  o' n  0.0.00000,10-                       O  -
0.0                          O        -  oe.-o  '1  -  On    0fi0.
00001'.    r,,    O  000r.0'100*    C'1'1  h  O  O  000100.  Il  O  000               O  0.0    OfOO    000
nO  '10'        O        r.'.-'0O
o'  o.-'or.o'       00              100.                 -      0' 0   -  r.  10              '1              0' O
0  010  O  00.                 0  O  0100         0  0       b O  r'>-
:':         ;1                                   0.       O                    o      0.0                   '10.000
g               00o-o'-1o1'0  0'1  0'.0000  hI
'.0  O        O  004' .0.1  "1  0100''.  O        -                                 j                0 P1'00     1'-..
I              I                           I                0.0-10
r
                              --- :   :a
-:                      000000   0010                        en  o-             o      oo
1g               o             'n    'OC)   O               '.r.'1r.
h.'.             O        n                    oO
G.    0141                 011  00.
O  -0           0                                  n                                O             0              Or-.  -'01
*                                                                                   11.     '1                   '.-'  r.  r.
Or.  "-0                                                                                                          O    O
0.0.0r.0                                                                                    0'                   0    n
O  000                                                                                      O                    Il
0' O  0                                                                                                          0.
-'1. -.g
00-00                                        4. 100                                           10                -0.000 O             <00
041  000                                     -  -.'               -                        -  -                                      0.0
0. 000                    0.0                               04,1100            -          O o              000-.100000              00
mcl - 10 000010000001010101000 0000 1000 0 0 0 000000000
'1<00-I         O O   000000000000000                        0000            000           O 0   O   000000000
O Or.
 ?
0-10' 0         O
'100  0'        0
* 0'O   O       O  -                                                         10100                    A
".0  0        O  O  '  ''0,"'        c-.                   00o0            000        I  10  10     0      00000
00. i
l'O
-   O     O                                                                                                                                  O
00.  O        10                                                                                                                     S        Cl'
0'0  '1   '-0 1.1    0                      O  100      1000...10n0                      o  o      O                 o  p.    k-o
10 I-J 00.0                          coI-la   O ccc   o o c   o o coccooco                                              I
O 0  O O 0 10 0O0801000                                 0000   O 000   8 O 0   O O OOOOOO8
0' 0                                                                                                                               4         O       W
o  '1        O                                                                                                                     O         10       mAC
0.    0'     O
o        0  o                                                         1010                    O           -
0' 0.        O  O      4lk4*'*0kî*I-0*I              I 0000          '  001        I  O  O       O  I  11,00,,,
g0.                                                      88          8            O  8         0  O        OO             Ir.0I
.Ior                                         oo                                                                     l0..
10  O  *0*0I000o*l100*              O  00010,       0  0101      O  10 10      0  O    0<00111
         o            c  o        co                             g'
'R
'.4
O                                                                                        0
'-0   00000114h011*0001                          1010            lOI           Il    O   100010100
0                                                                                        o
o                                                                                        o
g
g
.5
*1
0.
g        c
o        o
O  M                                         10              0000                    10           0.0
0  O  o      000' O 100000000             o  010100      '  000        O  0.0 10     0  o  000000000
'0  0     '0              O      O  100      0  '.00  O      0  10100     10 0  'J       10000000100100              C)
O 0 000 00000 t
M  O  0  0000101'c'10010010010M10            0  0000         O  0          O      10       o  888§oooco
o  o  o  10 00000000010100000                O  0000         O  000        O  O  O       O  O          00000         r.
o o o O ocOOOOoOooooooo    0 0000    O 000    0 O 0



LIoeTooe 020J3C2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Tbl  
I; DIOCA   FROJ
SODSPA Ranches
Fattenirg Ranch (Ndokayo) - 20.000 ha
Inccom  apd Oor&t±l  Coste
CATEGORY                            Unit                                                -- -------Yr of  hvvleqi                         et------
Cnet   i                         2                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3          4                         5-20
A. INCOuiI
Salas cf 3.5-5 y..ar  Ild 4teere              40                         -                     141,440                     150,520                     152,080                      152,080
Sales cf Hides  1                              1                        150                       206                         148                          149                         149
TOTAL INCOME                                                             150                   147,646                     150,668                      152,229                     152,229
B.  OPERATI3G COSITS
/2
Salaries *nd Wages -
Manager /3                                                            6,000                      6,000                       6,000                        6,000                       1,400
Aacietact Manager                            800                         800                       800                         800                          800                         800
Veterinary Assistant                         600                         600                       600                         600                          600                         600
Clerk                                        600                         600                       600                         600                          600                         600
Skilled Lahbr                                400                      4,000                      4,800                       4,800                       4,800                        4,800
hcrdsmee/îcherer/geards                      300                      9,000                     12,000                      12,000                       12,000                      12,000
subtotal                                                             21,000                     24,800                      24,800                       24,800                      20,200
moi.tena.ce
BuOldiegs                                                                                          900                       1,050                        1,050                       1,050
Pencing _4/4                                                                                       200                         400                          600                         600
Sctk HSedling Facilities /4                                                                       400                         600                          600                         600
Roas., Tracks an  Firebreake 7/4                                                                   190                         300                          300                         300
Wlter Trceghs /4                                                                                    50                         100                          100                         100
Subtot-l                                                                .                        1,740                       2,450                       2,650                        2,650
grunine Cee-e nf Vehi1ies
-rd Other Equipnent
L,ndro7yr  or equivaleet                                                625                        625                         625                          625                         625
ltuck-  /7                                                 750                       750                          750                         750                          750
Totkr-y te 7                                                             120                       240                         240                          240                         240
Trartor 75                                                               750                       750                         750                          750                         750
tighting Plant /9                                                        225                       225                         225                          225                         225
t'ixel Peeipa Statien /9                                                 225                       225                         225                          225                         225
Pertable Pueipa Unite /10                                                 75                       150                         150                          150                         15c
Subtetal                                                              2,770                      2,965                       2,965                       2,965                        2,965
Replarerecet
Ve',irles s-d  Equipeent -                                            2, 010                     2,330                       2,330                        2,330                       2,330
C nerai Adeicistration
Land Rent /1                                                             200                       200                         200                          200                         200
Office Sapeseea/Rldie Telsph.ne                                          300                       600                         600                          600                         600
Subtetai                                                                500                        800                         800                          800                         800
Animal health
Inseattiide 1    /14                        0.30                      1.200                      2,340                       2,352                       2,364                        2,364
Vaunines and Druga -                        0.40                      1.600                      3,120                       3,136                       3,152                        3,152
Mionerala /15                               0.15                         600                     1,170                       1,176                        1,182                       1,102
Sebtet.l                                                              3,400                      6,630                       6,664                        6,698                       6,698
purchase of Feeder Steere                     18                         -                         -                        72,000                      72,000                       72,000
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                29,680                     39,265                     112,009                      112,243                     107,643
/1  757. cf dead steere.
/2  Iscludes provision fer redical.  issvs, separeena tien and cther alesaseras
£3 Rspatriate weuld be replaced by a aer.ere.iar in year 5.
/4 5% of nonstrectien test begiening with yeer fnllowing constructioe.
75  25,000 k/year et CFAF 25 per 1n fer fuel, oil, greaee, spare parts, repaira aud ine.a. ee.
/6  25,000 kx/year et CFAP  30 pet k.n for fuel, oil,grease, spare parts, repaire .ed i.euran-e.
77  15,000 k /yar at CFAF 4 per kre for fuel, cil, grease.  spare parts, repairs and insurane
/8  1,500 working hours per year at CFAF 500 per hour fer fuel,  il, gresse, epare parts sd repatrs.
[9  1,500 working hours per Year at CFAF 150 per heur fer fuel,  il, gre.se, spare parts acd repairs,
7/o 500 working hours per putp pet year et CF4F 150 per hour for fuel, oil, gre.se, sp.ra parts and repair.
711 20% ef erigina  cnet beginning with yaar cf anquisitice
712 COX? 10 per 'w pr year.
/13 CTAF 300 per head per year; dippf-g tCute weekly for 26 t-enka aid o-ne fsrttigbtly fer 2 weeks.
714 CfAf  400 per head per ve.r;  esceiratir agelnst blankua ar r,d tasasrrhagir septicassata tvlce per  eacr a-d
..anthranece par y-ar ples prephyleutin, eld eventesliy Bat cunstins   ereautsstseatst rsrsenosnisis a-d
drenching agaitest iternal parasites.
/15 5 kg rock salt par head per year at CFAF 30 pe- kg.
Saptetbet 10, 1973



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities
A. Background
Introduction
1.        Cattle and smallstock for Yaoùnde and Douala are slaughtered in
abattoirs owned and operated.by the municipalities.  Butchers, mainly
wholesalers, bring their stock to the premises for skinning and dressing
by their own hired labor. The municipalities provide the Moslem slaughter-
men (Malam) and the Livestock Ministry veterinary inspectors.
2.        The butcher's costs are approximately CFAF 1,000 per head of
cattle, broken down as follows:
Municipal fee (including veterinary services)        CFAF 400
Malam fee                                            CFAP 100
Hired labor (average cost)                           CFAF 500
CFAF 1,000
Livestock Marketing System for Yaounde and Douala
3.        Livestock for Yaounde and Douala originates mainly from the
Adamaoua Plateau. In 1972, about 30,000 head of cattle were sLaughtered
at the Yaounde abattoir and about 22,000 head at Douala--representing
about 15% of Cameroon's total beef consumption.
4.        The cattle marketing chain involves several stages.  First,
producers generally sell one or two animals at a time to small traders, who
take them to one of the 40 primary markets in Central Cameroon. The
animals are bought at the primary markets by a second group of traders who
take them to larger' markets where they are sold to butchers and traders
from Yaounde or Douala.  Trading is private, there is no form of public
auction, and animals are not weighed. Most transactions are in cash,
though credit is sometimes provided by traders and moneylenders at the
markets.  Veterinary inspectors are present at markets.  Illegal transactions
outside official markets are frequent and are caused in part by the desire
of traders to avoid sales taxes levied by local authorities at official
markets.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Yaounde traders buy their animals from secondary cattle markets
at Ngaoundere, Meiganga, Tignere and Tibati on the Adamaoua Plateau. Cattle
are generally trekked by foot from these markets to Yaounde, a journey re-
quiring about 30 to 40 days. Cattle trucking is increasing and in 1972
about 20 percent of Yaounde's supplies were transported by truck. The new
railroad linking Yaounde with Ngaoundere (627 km) will be completed in
January 1974 and should provide a competitive means for cattle transport.
The rate of CFAF 2,300/head now proposed by the railway administration will
be considerably lower than the present trucking cost of CFAF 3,600/head and
will be competitive with trekking costs.
6.        Douala is mainly supplied by traders who buy cattle at
Nkongsamba, a secondary market and the collection center for cattle from
Western Adamaoua and the Northwest Highlands. Transportation from
Nkongsamba to Douala (172 km) is mostly by rail.
Wholesale and Retail Meat Trade
7.        Wholesaler butchers generally slaughter several animals at a
time. Viscera, head and legs are sold at the abattoir to retailers who
cater to low-income consumers, and carcass meat is distributed by the
butchers in open delivery vans to retailers at their street stalls. Some
retail butchers also buy cattle at the city market.
8.        All main cities have retail price controls for meat, however
these are seldom enforced. In Douala and Yaounde control prices are CFAF
200/kg for meat with bones and CFAF 250/kg for meat without bones. In
fact, wholesale prices in early 1973 were about 225 CFAF/kg for meat with
bones and 300 CFAF/kg for meat vithout bones and retail prices vere
probably 20 percent above wholesale prices. Since there is no standard
system for breaking up carcasses, the control is easily circumvented by
leaving little meat on the bones, cutting the choice portions larger than
normal, and by improper veighing. In addition, retailers with facilities
for preserving the quality of their meat are unofficially recognized to be
free to sell meat, including choice cuts, at market prices. One local firm,
Compagnie Pastorale Africaine, operates a ranch and a slaughter plant in
Ngaoundere from where it air freights meat to Douala for sale through its
own modern retail shops. It obtains, at current market prices, a gross
income of about 400 CFAF/kg of carcass and 565 CFAF/kg of variety meats.
Existing Yaounde and Douala Abattoirs
9.        The existing abattoirs at Yaounde and Douala are unhygienic.
There is no hot water for cleaning or sterilizing; many slaughter operations
are performed on the floor allowing carcase meat to contact contaminants from
the hide and intestinal content, and labor is not submitted to any form of
hygenic routine.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
10.       The present slaughter plant buildings offer no reasonable
possibilities for improvement. Each plant has a number of cubicles where
butchers slaughter and dress their own animals. This practice is contrary
to modern 3anitary concepts of on-the-rail dressing, where the slaughtering
and dressiùg operations are carried out in sequence with the carcass moving
progressively to more sanitary work areas allowing no backtracking of product
and personnel. It is this basic change in process flow that dictate against
any attempt to revamp or modernize the existing abattoirs at Yaounde or
Douala. In addition, the Yaounde abattoir is poorly situated and relocation
away from residential areas is necessary. Also, due to inadequate design,
the veterinary inspection is ineffective. By the time a diseased carcass
has been identified, its contaminated fluids have spread onto other carcasses
and its head and viscera are lost before they can be destroyed.
- B. The Project: New Processing Facilities at Yaounde and Douala
Introduction
il.       The meat processing component of the project involves replacing
the existing municipal abattoirs at Yaounde and Douala by modern, sanitary
facilities. The project would also include modernizing about 12 retail
meat shope (Tables 1 and 2).
Location and Sites
12.       Yaounde.  The new slaughter house would be located about 7 km
northeast of Yaounde near the new Ngaoundere-Yaounde railway line, and
close to the new cattle market. A ramp would be built vithin walking
distance of the plant for unloading cattle directly from the wagons.
13.       Douala.  The slaughterhouse would be located on the west bank
of the Wouri River, 2 km upstream from the existing abattoir. It would
be close to the Nkongsamba-Douala railway line from which livestock vould
be unloaded by a ramp built under the project. However, since the proposed
site is barely l metre above the water table a study of its suitability
would be made, particularly with reference to effluent disposal. Should
the proposed site be unsuitable, alternative land would be available nearby.
14.       The sites selected satisfy all basic requirements for modern
slaughter plants. These include proximity to sources of labor, availability
of water and power supplies, good market communications and, except as
mentioned above, effluent disposal. Moreover, their location in consumption
centers rather than in production areas minimizes the need to chill or
freeze meat for the Yaounde and Douala markets.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Capacity and Throughput
15.       Annual throughput and daily capacity requirements for both plants
have been projected from slaughtering for the period 1967-72. For simplic-
ity and considering their relatively small volume, all small stock have been
converted to cattle equivalents by dividing sheep and goats by 11 and hogs
by 3.
16.       Slaughter figures for 1967-72 and projections to 1980 for Yaounde
and Douala are given in Tables 3 and 4. On the assumption that the plants
would operate for 300 days and require a 30 percent spare capacity for peak
demand periods, the Yaounde plant would require a capacity to process 200
head per day (equivalent to 25 head per hour) to meet slaughter requirements
through to 1980. Small stock capacity would be 25 head per hour, the lowest
feasible capacity for a modern slaughter plant. Based on the same assump-
tions, the Douala plant would require a capacity for about 140 head of cattle
per day. The lower volume would not justify a smaller plant than Yaounde
and, therefore, the investment costs for both plants would be the same
(Table 5).
Buildings
17.       The plants would be designed, built, and equipped to meet inter-
national sanitary standards. This applies particularly to the layout and
product flow. Inedible products (hides, dry blood, hoof and horn meal)
would be processed in a completely separate building from the main slaughter-
ing block. The loading dock for carcasses and other edible products would
be diametrically opposite and upwind of the cattle pens and the loading area
for the inedible by-products.
18.       All slaughtering (two separate killing floors, one for cattle and
one for smallstock) and edible product handling would be carried out in a
single story structure having a flat concrete ceiling and brick walls
finished on the inside with an impervious washable surface. Floors would
be concrete, pitched with standard drains and with an abrasion and impact-
resistant surface. All openings would be screened and ventilation would be
mechanical. Inspection and work areas would be well lit.
19.       Each plant would have one chill room, preferably vithin the same
building as the carcass loading dock. It would be designed to hold a full
day's kill of beef (200 head) and small stock (100 head). Cooler rails
would be placed 3.35 metres above the floor with small s-tock hanging on umbrel-
las. The rails on the loading dock would be at a height 2.3 metres to allow
handling of small stock and beef carcasses in quarters. The refrigerating
equipment would be of the forced draft type, floor mounted with ready access
for service and maintenance.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
20.       Inedible by-products would be processed in a simple, naturally
ventilated building with a concrete floor, drains, and brick walls. The
roof could be corrugated transit with a supporting steel structure. The
buildings for utilities (laundry, boiler, engine, store, workshop and
garage), and hides and skins would be of similar construction. The office,
laboratory and first-aid room would be similar, but with flat concrete
ceiling slabs and superior inside finish.
21.       Livestock pens would not be shaded and would hold sufficient
stock for 2 days kill of cattle and smallstock. The pens would have
pitched concrete floors, individual drains, sanitary curbs and water
troughs, and two races to the killing floors. A separate pen would be
provided for holding diseased animals. The entire plant premises would be
fenced and would have a 1,500 m2 illuminated paved yard.  Approximate areas
of the proposed buildings are in Table 4.
Processing Capacity and Equipment
22.       The buildings and equipment would be designed for a maximum
slaughtering rate of 25 head of cattle per hour and 25 head of smallstock
per hour. All equipment that would come in contact with edible products
would be of stainless steel. Slaughtering would be according to Moslem
rites with carcass dressing on-the-rail. Rails would be gravity-type with-
out chain conveyors. Provision would be made for identification of viscera,
head and carcass until final inspection. No wood would be used within
edible or inedible product areas. Washbasins and sterilizers would be
strategically located and access to the processing rooms would be confined
to controlled points, using a strict hygienic routine. Condemned or dead
beasts would be destroyed in a lime pit. Complimentary facilities would be
provided for saving variety meats such as kidneys, livers, tongues, hearts
and tripe. Machines would be included for de-fatting and de-sliming casings
for export.
23.       Throughout the process a control would be kept on the identity of
each carcass with its corresponding edible and inedible by-products for
delivery (the latter in poly bags) at the loading dock to their owner/
butcher. The plant would keep the hide, casings and process blood, hooves
and horns into meal.
24.       The processing of inedible by-products would be minimal as
thoracic and abdominal viscera all pass as edible. The equipment would
include a disintegrator, blood drier, mill and bagging hopper. Pelts and
hides would be fleshed and framed for air-drying.  Salt curing of hides
has not been considered as the higher returns are offset by coet of importing
salt and higher freight costs to the European markets.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Utilities
25.       Steam at low pressure (5 kg/cm2) would be required for heating
water for sterilizing and clean-up, and also for by-product processing
(mainly blood drying). Two package type steam generators are proposed,
each with sufficient capacity to meet the total demand and suitable for
burning light fuel oil. All auxiliaries including fuel storage tank and
feedwater treatment would be part of the package.
26.       Power would be available on high tension from the cities;
provision has been made for the installation of a 2 km long aerial feeder
line and transfer substation at the plants. Water would also be supplied
by the city authorities, however a 2 km long underground pipeline must be
installed including storage tank and chlorinating equipment. The refrigerat-
ing plant would include two simple package units. It would involve recipro-
cating compressors operating with ammonia for easy detection of leaks. Each
unit would have sufficient capacity to carry the entire load. Effluent -
treatment would involve primary separation of solids and fat with a combina-
tion of rotary screen and catch basin. Land would be available for anaerobic
lagoons for secondary treatment and effluent would be channelled into nearby
rivers.
Construction and Management
27.       Both plants would be constructed simultaneously.  Government would
employ international consultants experienced in meat processing plant design
to draw up broad specifications of equipment and layouts for the two plants.
These plans and specifications would be used to issue invitations for inter-
national tenders for the construction of the plants on a turn-key basis.
The engineering consultants would assist Government in the evaluation of the
tenders and also supervise on Governmentts behalf the- entire construction
phase and start-up. The consulting firm would not be able to bid for the
construction of the plants.
28.       Each plant would be managed by an expatriate plant manager.  The
Yaounde manager would also be required to assist the manager of SODEPA on
policy and general operating matters. The expatriates would be recruited
either on an individual basis or be supplied by a management company together
with other staff required for project implementation. The plant managers
would be required in year 2 to acquaint themselves with the plants during
the final stage of construction and to organize start-up operations, including
personnel training and shutting down the old municipal abattoirs. The ex-
patriates would be required to train a Cameroonian to take over plant
management in about 4 years. All other staff including the accountants, the
slaughtering supervisors, the engineers, and the by-product and yard
supervisors, would be employed locally.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Terms of Reference for Plant ManaGWrs
29.       Qualifications.  University graduate in Business Administration,
Production Management, Chemical or Indiistrial Engineering, or have equivalent
training, vith at least 10 years experieuice în meat packing plant operations,
mostly in supervisory or managerial capacity. Me should be vell acquaînted
with livestock handling, slaughtering and related operations, refrigeration
and its application to meat, by-products rendering, and skin and hide
handling. He should also have experience in handling and training personnel
and be familiar with production planning and costing procedures. He should
be versed in meat inspection techniques and international sanitary practices.
Prior experience in a developing country and ability to speak French would
be advantageous.
30.       Duties and Responsibilities.  The plant manager would report
directly to the General Manager of SODEPA and be responsible for the full
range of slaughterhouse operations including coordination and control of
butcher cattle at all times during processing, llvestock handlîng, slaughter-
ing, variety meats and by-products processing, and loading dock operations.
He would also be responsible for engineering and administration through the
respective subordinates in each of these fields, for meeting the throughput
denanded by the butcher trade at budgeted costs, and within normal yields,
and for maintaining the product quality and operating practices within
sanitary requirements. Each manager would undertake technical appraisals
and supervision of butchers who receive loans from BCD to improve their
shops.
Benefits and Justification
31.       The new plants would produce wholesome meat for Cameroon's two
largest cities, and eliminate the present health hazards from infested meat
and diseased animals, and fly and rat breeding that are associated with the
existing abattoirs. In the case of Yaounde, the new plant would take
slaughter operations away from their present site near residential areas.
The new plants would also provide the additional capacity required to meet
the growing demand for meat in the two cities that would not be available
at the existing slaughterhouses.
32.       The modern plants would start a sanitary chain for handling meat
that would be continued to retail outlets with proper means for handling
and preserving the meat at the retail level. In addition, the effective
identification of diseased cattle would foster a receptive attitude by
producers to improve animal husbandry.
33.       Increased slaughtering fees have been calculated to generate a
reasonable rate of return on investment. In the interest of upholding
Government's policy the same fees are charged at both plants.  Initially,



ANNEX 8
Page 8
to obtain support for the new plants, butchers would pay a fee of CFAF
1150/per head equivalent to present butcher costs. However, to cover all
costs and yield a reasonable financial rate of return on investments,
slaughter fees would be raised to CFAF 2,000 per head over five years, an
increase of about 3 percent in the wholesale price of meat. The financial
rate of return for Yaounde is 20 percent (Table 5) and Douala 13 percent
(Table 6). A 10 percent increase in the investment without a further
adjustment of the fees would reduce the return for Yaounde to 18 percent
and for Douala to 12 percent. Butchers incremental income before taxes at
full development would be about CFAF 0.4 million (US$2,000).



ANNEX 8
Table 1
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities
Modern Butcher Investment, Operating Costs and Income
Before
Development          After Development
Year 1        Year 2-10
Number of Animals                    200             200                 200
---------       CFAF (t000)--------------
Investment
\ Refrigerated Cabinet           -              250.0
Civil Works                    -              110.0
Slab                           -               40.0
Display Cabinet                -               60.0
Tables                         -                10.0
Equipment                      -               30.0
Replacement                    -               -                   100
Subtotal                          -               500.0               100
Operating Expenses
Animal Purchase              8,050 1/        9,600  2/           9,600
Slaughter Fee and
Labor Costs                  200 3/          450  4/             450
Rent                            96             150                 150
Sales Labor                    120             240                 240
Electricity and Water           42               85                 85
Cleaning Materials              18              72                  72
Meat Delivery                  400             400                 400
Subtotal                        8,926          10,997              10,997
Total Costs                       8,926           11,497             11,097
Income
Variety Meats                  760 5/          530  6/             520
Carcass Meat                 9,350 7/       12,000  R/          12,000
By-Products                    140 9/          300 10/             300
Total Income                   10,250          12,830              12,830
Net Income                        1,324            1,333              1,73
1/  Liveweight 350 kg at CFAF 115 kg at Douala and Yaoundé markets.
2/  Liveweight 400 kg at CFAF 120 kg.
2/  CFAF 1000 per head.
4/  CFAF 2000 per head.
5/  CFAF 3800 per head.
6/  CFAF 2650 per head.
7/  42 percent of liveweight at CFAF 275 kg.
8/  50 percent of liveweight at CFAF 300 kg.
9/  Hide at CFAF 700 per head.
!J  CFAF 700 hide, CFAF 700 casings, CFAF 100 for head and hooves.



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities
Modern Butcher Cash Flow
(CFAF '000)
Before          -------------------After Development------------------
Development      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3                    Year 4
INFIOWW
Butcher Contribution                                 100          -
£Loan                                                isQO 400     -            _
Sales                             10,250          12,830       12,830       12,830       12,830      12,830
Total Inflow                   10,250          13,330       12,830       12,830       12,830      12,830
OUTFLOW
Investments and Replacement          -               500          100          100          100          100
Operating Costs                    8,926          10,997       10,997       10,997      10,997       10,997
Loan Repayment - Interest            _                h0           30           20           10          _
- Principal            _             100          100          100          100          -
Total Outflow                    P,926          11,637       11,227       11,217       11,207      11,097
Net Cash Balance                    1,32h,         1,693        1,603        1,613        1,623        1,733
Net Cash Income to Butcher          1,32X          1,593        1,603        1,613        1,623        1,733
Incremental Income                                   269          279          289          299          409



LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities
Yaoundé Abattoir - Actual Slaughter 1967-72 and Projected Requiremnts 197-50
Livestock Slaughtered (Head)
Small Stock          Total Yearly Throughput
Year      Cattle       Sheep      Goats        logEs     Equivalent Cattle             Cattle (Head)
1967      20,973         712       101          740             276                       21,249
1968      22,624         789       296,        894              342                       22,966
1969      24,21%         768       175         834              313                       24,528
1970      ?3,422         639        30          829             287                       23,709
1971      26,73.-     1,135        123       1,436              506                       27,243
1972      27,931-     1,300        106       1,416              514                       28,.449
Average yearly iicrease   1967-72 = 6 percent.
Pro.iect Slaughter (Head) 1973-1980
1973                                                                                                30,200
1974                                       Project Year 1                                           32,000
1975                                       Project Year 2                                           33,900
1976                                       Project Year 3                                           35,900
1977                                        Project Year 4                                          38,100
1978                                       Project Year 5                                           40,400    CD
1i9 7                                      Project Year 6                                           42500 
1980                                       Project Years 7-20                                       45,300
September 10, 1973



CAMEROON
IIVESTOCK PROJEGT
Processing Facilities
Douala Abattoir - Actual Slaughter 1967-72 and Projected Slaughter 1973-80
Smali Stock         Total Yearly Throughput
Year      Cattle      Sheep      Goats      Hogs       Equivalent Cattle           Cattle (Head)
1967     17,041       1,915     1,010      4,302            1,366                     18,e407
1968     19,568       3,687     1,203       5,378           1,911                     21,479
1969     18,331      4,197       1,085      6,092           2,142                     20,473
1970     16,378       2,966     1,210       6,348           2,110                     18,488
1971      19,557      2,536        927      6,349           2,046                     21,603
1972      21,h57      3,092       852      4,725            1,647                     23,104
Average yearly increase: 1967-72 - 5 percent.
ProJected Slaughter (Head) 1973-1980
1973                                                                                            24,300
1974                                        Project Year 1                                      25,500
1975                                        Project Year 2                                      26t700
1976                                        Project Year 3                                      28,100
h 977                                       Project Year 4                                      29,500
1978                                        Project Year 5                                      31,000
1979                                        Project Year 6                                      32,500
1980                                        Project Years 7-20                                  34,100
September 10, 1973



CA'IEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities:  Yaoundé and Douala
Investaent Costa
INVESTMENT ITEMS /2                                                            Capacity
or Total Units     Cost per Unit           Year 1       Year 2        Total      Foreign Exchange
FIXED                                                                                                                 -------__ in '000 CFAF ----------
LAND AND INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                      2
Land /3                                                                       5 ha               800 CFAF/n         40,000              -       40,000
Site Preparation /4                                                           1 ha              600 CFAF/.2          6,000             -         6,000
Sub-Total                                                                                                        46,000             -        46,000
CIVIL CONSTRUCTION                                                                 2
Plant Yards, Fenci.g, Infrastructure                                      1,500 m2               40 US$/m2           10,000        2,000        12,000             5
Cattle and Smallstock Pens                                                  600 n2               60 US$/n2            7,200            -         7,200             5
Main Frocessing Building (Slaughter Floors, Edible Viscera Roo,                  2
Loading Dock) /5                                 500 n2               200 US$/m2          20,000             -       20,000            25
Chill Room /6                                                               100 n2              225 US$/m2           4,500             -         4,500            30
By-Product, Hide, Maintenance, Boiler, Engine, Store, Garage                                              2
& Laundry Sheds                                                           300 m100 1S/n                            6,000             -         6,000            15
Office, First Aid  nd Dressing Roons                                        150 n               lSO 10 us/           5,400             -         5400             20
Sub-Total                                                                                                        53,100         2,000       55,100            17
UTILITIES
Water Supply Line                                                             2 kh           12,000 US$/kh            4,800            -         4,800            70
Water Tank, Punp and Distribution                                           150 m3              200 US$/m3            8,000            -         8,000            70
Elentrie Fouer Supply Line                                                    2 lm            5,000 US$/km           2,000             -         2,000            70
Substation and Auxiliaries                                                  150 KVA              50 US$/K004         1 500             -         1,500           80
Package Steam Generator and Auniliaries                                2x4,000 kg/hr         17,500 US$/ea           5,000         2,000         7,000           85
Effluent Treatnent, Screen, Tank, Lagoons                                   300 m3/day          100 US$/m3           4,000         4,000         8,000           60
Refrigerating Euipment                                                     2x40 ton.            900 US$/ton          7,200         7,200        14,400            85
Service Lices, Maintenance Equipment, Etc.,                                                  25,000 US$              3.000         2000         5.000           75
Sub-Total                                                                                                        35,500        15.200       50,700            76
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Cattle Slaughtering sud Dressing Equipment                                   25 head/hr       2,000 US$/head          5,000        5,000        10,000           85
Smallstock Slaught-ring oni Dressing Equipment                              100 head/day     25,000 U0$              2,500         2,500         5,000           85
Edible Product Handling Equipuent sud Auxiliaries                           200 head/day      9,000 US$                   -        1,800         1,800            95
Casing Pr.oessing Eqnuipuent /7                                             200 head/day     16,000 us$                   -        3,200         3,200            90
By-Product Rendering Equip.ent                                              200 haad/day     35,000 0S$              2.000         5.000         7,000            85
Chillroom Evaporators                                                       200 head/day     10,000 U0$                   -        2,000         2,000            85
Chillroom and Loading Dock Railage                                          200 n                20 US$/m                 -          800           800            90
Sub-Total                                                                                                         9,500        20,300        29,800            86
TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
Pick Up Truck                                                                 1              10,000 US$               2,000            -         2,000            95
Workers' Bus                                                                  1               15,000 US$                  -        3,000         3,000            95
Field Car                                                                     1               6,000 US$               1.200             -        1.200            95
S.b-T.t.1                                                                                                         3,200         3.000         6,200            95
ADIIINISTR4TION, SERVICES
Office Equipment, Laboratory, LaundrY, Firat Aid Kit, Equip.m.t t
Sub-Total                                                                  -                 -                         -        1,000         1,000           80
ENGINEERING AND OVERHEAD
Consultant for Basic Desigu and Supervision                                   _                    2 %                2,400          500         2,900            95
Contractor for Turnkey Construction                                           _                   10 /.               9000        5,300        14,300            90
Sub-Total                                                                                                        11,400         5.800        17,200            91
Sub-Total Fixed Inve-tment                                                 -                 -                  158,700        47,300       206,000            47
Physical Contingencies                                                                          5 .                7,900        2,400        10,300            47
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                                          _                  -                  166,600       49,700       216,300            47
This estineate is valid for either the Yaoundé or Douala abattoir.
A2 All achinery and equipsent costa incl.ude crating, freight and installation, all imports assumed free of doty.
Average cost of land of proposed sites at Taoundé and Doaala.
LL Includea partial bushclearing and levaling.
Separate slaughtering floora for cattle and s-aIl stock.
Chillroon capacity to accomatodate one day's kill.
For prodnc0ing clean casings for export.
September 10, 1973



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities: Yaoundé
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Year 1    Year 21  Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Years 8-20
------------------------------- head of cattle -----------------____-_____-_
VOLUME
Total                                        -    16,000    35,900    38,100    40,400    42,800    45,300          45,300
INCOI4E                                   ----------------------------- millions of CFAF --------------------------------
Slaughter-ing Fee  /2                               16.3       à3.l       53.3      64.6        77.0      90.6        90.6
Sale of By-Product.s                       -.-      51.2      112.7      119.6     126.9      13h.4      1h2.2       142.2
Total Inconc                            -.-       67.5      155.8     172.9      191.5      211.4      232.8       232.8
OPERATING COST
Direct ('osts
Payment to B,itchers  /3                  -.-       24.5       53.9       57.2      60.6       64.2       68.0        68.0
ecterinary   Malan Fse                    -.-        2.1        5.L        5.76 6.1                        6.8         6.8
Di rect Tabor                               .        6.0       10.2       10.2      10.2       10.2       10.2        12.8
-ti Iti os                                  .       15.8       32.7       34.7      36.8       38.9       hi.2        41.2
fllteria'. s & Freîght                    -.-        7.2       15.8       16.7      17.7       18.8       19.9        19.9
Thtnl DIrect ,;cst                      -.-       55.9      118.0     12).5      131.4      138.5      116.1       140.;
Pierhead Costs
!Tl-lintenance L,tbcr                    -. -       1.2        1.8       1.8        2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0
Maintpnance Fterials                      -.-        1.0        2.0        2.0        2.2       2.2        2.2         2.2
Engineers & Surpervisors Salaries         -.-        1.5        1.5        1.5       1.7        1.7        1.7         1.7
Administration Sanl,ries                   -. -      1.0        1.11       1.14       1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5
Admini-stration Exnerses                   -.-       2.0        3.0        3.0        3.3       3.3        3.3         3.3
Management                                 -.-       6.0        6.0        6.o        1.1       1.1        1.1         1.1
Total Overhead                          -.-       12.7       15.7       15.7      11.8       11.8       11.8        11.3
Total Operating Cost                    -.-       68.6      133.7     IhO.2     143.2      150.3      157.9       160.5
/1  It is assnmed that nlant constrllction will take 1½ years and operations will commence midyear 2.
72  SlaughtEring fees iner,ased progressEively fro  1,000 CFAF/head in year 2 stabilizing at 2E000 CFAF/head in year
7 and onwardis.                                                                                                              Ch ot
/3  Payment to butchers for hide and oasings.
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 20%
Septeiab <L0, 1973                              Sensitivity Analysis:  10% increase in investment coste -18%



CAMEROON
LI7ESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities: Douala
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Year 1    Ye-ar Zl- Year 3    Year h    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Years 8-20
--------------------------   head of catte ----------------------________
V0LODTME
Total                                       -    13,000    28,100    29,500    31,000    32,500    3h,100         3h,100
INCOME                                  --------- -millions of CFAF --------------------------------
Slaugh;ering fee  /2                      -.-      13.0       33.7      h1.3      gt9.6      58.5       68.2        68.2
Salle of   -La. 8                                             88.3      92.6       97.ù     102.0      107.1       107.1
Total IneDme                           - -       53-8     122.0      133.9      1h7.0     160.5      175.3       175.3
OPERATINC COST
Direct rCnsts
Psgrnicnt to Butchers  /3                _,_       19.5      h2.J       44.3      46.5       48.8       51.2       51.2
Veterinar7 & Molco Fee                   -.-        2.0       4.2        U.4       4.6        L.9        5.1         5.1
DirPct Lahor                             _,_        5.0        8.3       8.3        8.3       8.3        8.3        10.2
Wrtt] its                                _,_       12.8       26.6      27.8       29.2      30.6       32.0        32.0
M-ateriîls, Freight                       -.-       5.7       12.6      13.3       14.i      15.0       15.9        15.9
TOt,nl Dnloct :;ost                    -. -        .5a0    93.9       98.1     102.7      107.6      112.5      14l.4
Overhead Costs
Maintenance Ni.hor                        -.-       1.2        1.8       1.8        1.8        1.8       1.8         2.0
Mainterance M-.trias                      -.-       1.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0         2.2
Engineers Ye Supervisors Salnrres         -.-       1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5         1.7
adm.!ir.str:xtnor Sal'ries                -.-       1.0        1.1h      1.         1.4        i.h       1.1I        1.5
Adm riqtr                                           2.0        3.0       3.o        3.0        3.0       3.0         3.3
ManaFeinen t                              -.-6.o               6.o       6.0        1.0       1.0        1.0         1.0
Total]. Oer>-d                                         -   15.7       I5.7       10.7      10.7       10.7        11-
Total Onerating Cost                    -,       57.7      109.6     113.8      113.4     118.3      123.2       126.2
/1. Tt is assurmed that p 7nt construction will taKe 12 years and operations will commence midyear 2.
7- Slaughtering fees increased nrogressively from 1,000 CFAF/head in year 2 stabilizing at 2,000 CFAF/head in year 7
and onwards.                                                                                                               o
/3  Payment to Butchers for hide ard casings.
F'INANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 13%
September 10, 1973                             Sensitivity Analysis:  10% increase in investment costa '12%






CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities: Yaoundé and Douala
Assumptions for Computing Income
Yearly Volume, Yield, Weight
Item                                         Per Unit                    Price, Income per Unit
Douala         Yaounde
BUTCHER'S ACCOUNT /_
Year 1i
Year 2                                      13,000 head      16,300 head
Year 3                                      28,100 head      35,900 head
Year 4                                      29,500 head      38,100 head
Year 5                                      31,000 head      40,400 head
Year 6                                      32,500 head      42,800 head
Year 7                                      34,100 head      45,300 head                    -
Year 8 thru 20                              34,100 head      45,300 head
SLAUGHTERING FEE
Present Municipal Fee                                     -                         400 CFAF/head
Present Butcher Labor Cost                                -                         500 CFAF/head
Malam Fee  /2                                             -                         100 CFAF/head
Total Initial Fee (year 2)  /3                                                    1,000 CFAF/head
Yearly Incremental (year 3 thru 7)                                                  200 CFAF/head
Fixed fee (year 7 thru 20)                                                       2,000 CFAF/head
SALE OF BY-PRODUCTS
Salted Casings                                    entire volume /4               1,300 CFAF/head C.I.F, Germany
Hides Drv                                          11.0 kg/head                     150 CFAF/kg
Dry Blood and Meat Meal                             2.5 kg/head                      80 CFAF/kg
Hoof and Horn Meal                                  1.5 kg/head                      80 CFAF/kg
/1  Slaug'itering for butcher's account has been projected basis 1967-72 trend - Douala volumes include
97. small stock converted to cattle (hogs - 3, sheep and goats - 11) and Yaounde 2%; for conservative
reasons, volume increases have not been carried beyond year 7 (1980).
/2  Killing performed by priest according to Moslemn rite,
/3 The initial fee, representing the butcher's present costs would not cover the cost of the new sanitary                 c « r
operations and debt service and must therefore be increased gradually to find a realistic level by
year 7.
/4  Condemnation rate 10%/.
September 10, 1973



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Processing Facilities: Yaoundé and Douala
Assumptions for Computing Operating Costs
Item                                    No. of Units, Rates, Yields                   Price or Cost per Unit
DIRECT COSTS
BUTCHER'S ACCOUNT
Payment for hide  /l                                      10  kg/head                                    700 CFAF/head
Payment for leghide and hooves                                   unit                                     50 CFAF/head
Payment for headhide                                             unit                                     50 CFAF/liead
Payment for casings                                              unit                                    700 CFAF/head
Total                                                          head                                  1,500 CFAF/head
LIVESTOCK
Veterinary Inspection Fees                               entire volume                                    50 CFAF/head
Malam Fee                                                entire volume                                   100 CFAF/head
Total
DIRECT LABOR                                      Douala                  Yaounde
Years 2-7  Years 8-20   Years 2-7  Years 8-20
Stockpens and Plant Yards                     8          10           10          12                 130,000 CFAF/man year
Slaughtering & Viscera Cleaning              20          24           24          30                 190,000 CFAF/man year
Coolers and Loading                           8          10           10          14                 170,000 CFAF/man year
By-Produicts & General Labor                 16          20           20          24                 130,000 CFAF/man year
Total                                      52          64           64          80
UTILITIES
Purchased Power                                            30 KWH/head                                    15 CFAF/KWH
Purchased Water                                         2,000 lts/head                                    80 CFAF/m3
Fuel, Lubricants, Etc.                                     10 kgs/head                                    30 CFAF/kg
Labor                                                       5 operators                              190,000 CFAF/man year
MATERIALS, FREIGH'T, TAXES
Cleaning Materials                                       entire volume                                    50 CFAF/head
Packing Materials, Salt                                  entire volume                                   200 CFAF/head
Freight                                                  entire volume  2                                210 CFAF/head
Total
OVERHEAD COSTS
Maintenance Labor                                           5 mechanics                              360,000 CFAF/man year
Maintenance Materials                                                                              1,800,000 CFAF/year
Engineers and Supervisor Salaries                           1 - 2                                    500,000 CFAF/man year
Administration Salaries                                  ( 1 accountant                              700,000 CFAF/man year
(  2 clerks                                360,000 CFAF/man year
Administration Expenses                                                                            3,000,000 CFAF/year
Contracted Management                                       1 production manager               (      30,000  US$/year - year 2 thru 4    
1,000,000 CFAF/year - year 5 thru 20            ° 
Total                                                                                                                                                Co
a Excludes hide from head and legs.
12 Less condemnation 10 percent.
September 10, 1973



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Pr    t Cat Phasing
(CIF l ilionJ
Year            Year         Year         YeTr          Yesr           Yaar
1               2            3            4             5              6              Total
I.   PRIVATE SECTOR LOANS
(a)  Private Fart and Rural Development
On Farm Investments                           -              26.5          39.9        46.6          57.3           10.8             181.1
Livestock                                     _              10.1          20.0        23.6          26.9           10.0              90.6
(b)  Butcher's Investments                           -               2.3           2.3          2.3           -              -                6.9
(c) Loan Administration
Vehicles Equipment                           3.2              -      -            -             -                     -                3.2
Expatriate Salaries                         17.6             17.6          17.6'        17.6           -              -               70.4
Working Capital                             12.4             10.8           3.2          -             -              -               26.4
Total Private Sector                               33.2             67.3          83.0         90.1          84.2           20.8            378.6
Il.   SODEPA
(a)  Headquarters Equipment                         6.7              0.3           -            -             -              -                7.0
(b)  Ranching
Bulldings                                   20.2             23.5           3.4        20.2            3.4            -               70.7
Fencing                                      4.3              8.6           8.6         8.6            4.3           4.3              38.7
Stockhandling Facilities                     8.6              8.6           8.6         8.6            -             4.3              38.7
Road, Tracks and Firebreake                  4.3              6.7           2.5         4.3           2.5             -               20.3
Watering Facilities                          3.1              5.2           2.0          3.1           2.0            -               15.4
Vehicies and Equipment                       9.3             10.5           1.2          9.3           1.2            -               31.5
Sub-total                               49.8              63.1         26.3         54.1          13.4            8.6             215.3
(c)  Livestock                                    124.0            179.0         104.4        124.2          96.3           21.6            649.5
(d)  Slaughter Plants
Civil Works                                132.4              4.5           -            -             -              -              136.9
|Machinery, Equipment, Vehicles             104.1             85.3           -            _             _              _              189.4
Engineering                                25.1              12.8                                                                     37.9
Land                                       84.0               -             _            -            -               -               84.0
Sub- total                             345.6             102.6          -            -                                           448.2
(e)  Working Capital                              100.0             25.0           -            -             -              -              125.J
(f)  Expatriates Salary                            23.1             42.9          42.9         49.5          13.2            7.2            178.8
(f)  Phynical Cuntingencies                        20.1              8.3           1.3          2.7           0.7            0.4             33.5
Total SODEPA                                      669.3            421.2         174.9        230.5         123.6           37.6          '.657.3
III.   MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCc - TSFTSF
FLY EXTERMINATION PROGRAN
Land Clearing and Fencing                            -               -            49.3         49.3           -              -               98.6
Spraying (Contract)                                  -               -           105.6        100.7         102.3            -              308.0
Vehicles and Equipment                              2.3              3.2          21.0          0.5           0.5            -               27.s
Insecticide                                          -               -            65.4         63.3          64.3
Aviation Fuel                                        -               -             3.6          3.5           3.5            -                0
Personnel Salaries                                  6.7             13.9          26.3         26.3          26.3            4.-
Surveys (Consultants)                               8.8             10.9           -            -             -              -               19.7
Training                                                            10.3                        -             -              -
Operating Expenses                                  1.6              3.4          16.7         20.8          24.7           1.97.
Sub-total                                 19.4              Q?.7        287.9        264.4         221.6           '7.1
Physical Contingencies                              2.L4             5.3          42.7         39.2          32.8            2.6            125.0
Total Tsetse Fly Extermination                     21.8             4?.0         330.6        303.6         25ah.4          19.7            977.1
IV.   TRAINING FUND                                       12.5             12.5 12.5                 12.-                          - _              C.
V.   PROJECT PREPARAIIOI: (CONSU'TANT5)                    --.,.                                     _
Total Project Costs Excluding Price
Contingencies and Risk Allowances               736.6            57._          o26.O        o3u.7         462.2           78.3          3,;;3.1
Special Rusk Allowance 2/                           -                             26.2         2'.0          25.0            -               76.2
Price Contingencies                               220.8            134.5          65.1         23.L           '              -              453. 0
GRAND TOTAL                                       967.6            7             77.2             .
/ The detailed project costs in Annexes 4 through 8 have been amended to take account of the price increases since tnt appra su..a. Miso'o
was in the field.  Changes are as £ollows:  civil works costs 12 percent; rmachinery and equipmsent o perce-nt; onerating -ost:, fuels, and
pesticides 35 percent; livestock 15 percent; and expatriate salaries 13 percent.
/  Fiftean percent on the spraying contract, insecticide and fuel for the tsetes extermination programr.



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Farmers
Cattle Owners
Butchers        Government    Bank        Total
I.   Private Sector Development
Loans                                    0.2               -          0.9          1.1
Loans Administration                       -              0.1           -         0,1
Expatriate Salaries and Equipment          -              -            0.3        0.3
Sub-total                           0.2             0.1          1.2         1.5
II.   SODEPA Ranches and Slaughter Plants
Expatriate Salaries                        -              0.1          0.b        0.7
Vehicles, Equipment, Fencing               -              0.2          1.0         1.2
Livestock                                  -              0.3         2.3         2.6
Buildings & Land Preparation               -              0.1          1.1        1.2
Ranch Infrastructure                       -              0.1         0.2         0.3
Working Capital                            -              0.5           -         0.5
Sub-total                            -              1.3          5.2         6.5
LLI.   `linistry of Livestock Tsetse Fly
Extermination
Land Clearing and Fencing                  -               -          0.4         0.4
Spraying (Contract)                        -              0.1          1.1        1.2
Vehicles, Equipment, Fuel,Insecticide   -                 0.1         0.8         0.9
Consultants and Overseas Training          -               -          0.1         0.1
Staff Salaries and Operating Expenses   _                0.8           -          0.c
Sub-total                                           1.0          2.4         3.4
IV.   Overseas Training Fund                     -               -           0.2         0.2
V.   Project Preparation                        -               -           0.2         0.2
Consultants                                                             -          -
VI.   Contingencies
Special Risk                               -               -          0.3         0.3
Pftysical                                  -0.1                       o.6         0.7
Price                                                     0.3         1.5         1.8
Sub-total                            -              0.4          2.4         2.8
Total                               0.2             2.8         11.6        14.6
February 9, 1974



CAi4EROON
Livestock Project
Disbursernent of IBRD Loan
(US $000)
Pyl         FY 2        PY 3         PY 6        P5          PF 6              Total
I     Private Sector Development
a) Loans                                                          -         124.5        199.9       232.0        269.4      66.6              892.4
b) Consultants' Services and Equipsant                           74.9        63.0         63.0        63.0          -         -                 263.9
Sub-Total Private Sector                                 74.9       187.5       262.9        295.0       269.4       66.6            1,156.3
II    SODEPA Ranches and Slaughter Plants
a) Ecxpatriate Salaries                                          78.2       11r9.)[     149.4        173.2        42.5       20.9              613.6
b)  Slaughter Plants                                          1,244.2       369.4                      -            -         -              1,613.6
c) Livestock Purchase                                           441.4       639.4       370.8        442.1       341.7       72.8            2,308.2
d) Ranch Irfrastructuire                                        135.8       179.4        80.4        151.3        33.9       21.0              601.8
e)  Vehicles and Equiprnent                                      31.5        35.8          2.3        31.5         2.3        -                103.4
Sub-Total SODEPA                                      1,931.1     1,373.4       602.9        798.1       420.4     114.7             5,240.6
III   Ministry of Livestock - Tsetse-Fly Extermination
a) Land Clearing ani FencirnE                                     -                      177.5       177.5          -         -                 355.0
b)  Spraying Contract                                             -            -         380.2       362.5        368.3       -              1,111.0
c) Vehicles, SprayirT  Equ .pment and Paterials, and Fuels        8.3        11.5        324.0       242.3        242.3       -                 828.4
d) Consultants' Service and Training                             31.7        76.3          -           -            -         -                108.0
Sub-Total Ministry of Livestock                          LO.0        87.8       881.7        782.3       610.6        -              2,402.4
IV    Overseas Training Furdi                                          42.0        42.0         42.0        42.0               -                      168.0
V     Project Preparation Consultants                                   -           84.o        84.0          -           -         -                 168.0
VI    Continrencies
a) Special Risk                                                   -            -          94.3        90.0         90.0       -                 274.3
b) Physical Contingencies                                       106.4        66.9        167.5       160.6        132.8      31.9               666.1
c) Price Contingencies                                          730.5       445.0        215.0        97.2         13.5       -               1,501.2
ESub-Total Contingencies                                836.9       511.9        476.8       347.8        936.3      31.9             2,441.6
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                                                  2,924.9     2,286.6     2,350.3      2,265.2     1,536.7      213.2           11,576-9
March 1, 1974



ANNEX 11
Table 2
CAMEROON
Livestock Project
Quarterly Disbursemnents of Bank Loan
(Us $000)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter End                    Disbursements                  Balance
1973/74
June                                                             11,600
1974/75
September                             200                        11,400
December                              300                        11,100
March                                 600                        10,500
June                                  800                         9.,700
1975/76
September                             600                         9,100
December                              600                         8,500
March                                 600                         7,900
June                                  600                         7,300
1976/77
September                             600                         6,700
December                              600                         6, 100
Mlarch                                603                         r, f00
June                                  600                         4 900
1977/73
September                             500)                        4
December                              500                         3, 900
March                                 ,0                          3 v400
June                                  500                         2,900
1978/79
September                             20()                        2,500
December                              MO                          2,100
March                                 MO                          1,700
June                                 hO(                          1,300
1979/50
September                                                         1,000
December                              3o)                           700
Nlarch                                '00                            09
June                                  230                           330
1980/81
September                             200                           100
December                              100                           100
11,600



CA11'ROON
LIVSTOCK PBOJECT
SODRPA CASH FLOW1-
(CFAF Millions)
1        2         3         4          S         6         7         8         9         10         il         12          13        14        15        16         17        18        19        20       21
SOUKCES
2/
Guvetnment tonr - Capital îev-sta..te                     526.1    345.1    130.7    178.3    109.7          31.3        -         -         -         -          -          -          -         -          -         -         -         _         _          _        _
- Espatrirtt  Salartis                   23.1      42.9      42.9      49.5      13.2        7.2
Slb-total                                             549.2    388.0    173.6    227.8    122.9           38.5       -         -         -         -          -           -          _         -         -         -          _         -         -         -        _
Govoroaset Eqnity                                         100.0      25.0      -         -         -          -                        -
Inatae fran - Ranahos  3/                                  -         89.0    280.7    296.9    369.8         379.2    387.6    358.0    342.6    339.8          328.1       325.3      326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8   326.8
SloogEhtorhonsoa  3/                       -        139.5    319.5    352.8    369.3         427.7    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3           469.3      469.3      469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3   469.3
8ubÙîînoI                                               -       228.5    600.2    649.7    759.1          806.9    856.9    827.3    811.9    809.1          797.4       794.6      796.1    796.1    796.1    796.1    796.1          796.1    796.1    796.1   796.1
Total                                                 649.2    641,5    773.9    877.5    882.0           845.4    856.9    827.3    811.9    809.1          797.4      794.6       796.1    796.1    796.1       796.1    796.1    796.1    796.1    796.1   796.1
USES
Capital Oevostnnt -HQ                                       6.7       0.3           -         -          -         -         -         -               -          -          -          -               -         -         -         -         -         -.
- HRahas                             173.8    242.2    130.7    178,3    109.7           31.3
- Slaaghterplants  3/               345.6    102.6        -         -         -                    -
Slb-total                                             526.1    345.1    130.7    178.3    109.7            31.3
3/                3/
Opo-atitg Expendittres - Eandquarttcs                      20.8      21.9      21.9      21.9      21.9       21.9      21.9       21.9      21.9     21.9        21.9       21.9       21.9      71.9       21.9      21.9      21.9      21.9       21.9      21.9    21.9
- Hanchas  3/                    27.5      62.8    109.1    199.9    209.2          250.7    220.7    216.9    219.3    209.2          204.5      204.5      204.5    204.5    204.5    204.5    204.5    204.5    294.5    204.5   204.5
- Slaughterplants                -        140.9    274.0    286.4    290.9         304.8    319.3    324.9    324.9    324.9           324.9      324.9      324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9   324.9
- Expatrioat  Salarias 4/        23.1      42.9      42.9      49.5      13.2         7.2      -         -         -         .          -          .           .         -         -         -         .         -          -         -
Sub-total                                               71.4    268.5    447.9    557.7    535.2          584.6    561.9    563.7    566.1    556.0          551.3       551.3      551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3   551.3
Loan Repaymnot                                             -         -         -        116.0    123.2       125.1    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0           192.0      192.0      192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    192.0   192.0
Dividends                                                  -         -         -         -         -          -         51.5       35.8     26.9    3Y.6          27.05      25.7        26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4       26.4      26.4      26.4    26.4
Total                                                 597.5    613.6    578.6    852.0    768.1           741.0    805.4    791.5    7,35.0    778.6         770.35      769.0      769.7    769.7    769.7    769.7    769.7    769.7    769.7    769.7   769.7
NHt Caeh Flan                                              51.7      27.9    195.2       25.5    113.9        104.4      51.5      35.8      26.9      30.5       27.1       25.6        26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4       26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4     26.4
Cumulativ- Cash Flan                                       -         79.6    274.8    300.3    414.2         518.6    570.1    605.9    632.4    663.3           690.6      716.0       742.4    768.8    795.2    821.6    048.0    874.4    900.8    927.2   953.6
1/  ta CFAF 1974 taons.  Tha detailed prajsct caste il  An-anos 4 through 8 hava bans anandad ta ta   a                     n hc  prie incr-.eass  osic       apprathal  iission  ans    tha e field.
Changes ara ns Collows:  civil  cotkh  canta 12%;  -achinery sod aquipment 8%; aperating conta, fuls, and pesticidea 35%; lioestack 15%; sod axpatsiate salaries 107-.
2/ Ercluden contingencies.
3/  Anenas 7 through 8.
4/ Annon.e 4, 7 and 8
Jsn-aay 31, 1973






CAMEROON
Livestoek ProJect
Goverument Cash Fllc  1/
(CFAF Millions)
FP  1       F  2         PY 3         F1Y4        FpYS          PY 6        PY 7         PY 8            9         PY 10        PY  l        PY 12        FY 13       n 14 -21
Sairces 2/
IBRD Loan 2/                                275.0        450.0        475.0        500.0        325.0       275.0                 -            -                  -            -            -                    -
FONADER Loan Repayments 4/                     -           1.C          2.5          o.9        10.3         11.3         39.2         39.2         39.2         39.2         39.2         39.2         39.2
SODFPA Loan Repaymients 5/                                              - _i6.o                123.0        125.1        192.0        192.0        192.0        192.0        192.0        192.0       192.2         1,536.0
Cattle Poli Ta 6/                                                                    -            5.0        11.0         16.0         16.0         16.0         16.o         16.0         16.0         16.0          12B.0
Narket Tax 7/                                  -            -           -            -            2.0         1 .0         6.0         11.0         12.0         12.0         12.0         12.0         12.0           96.0
Dividends and Taxes trOn SODEPi   0                                                                     -                 51.5         35.8         26.6         30.6         27.1         25.7         20.4            -
Total                                   275.0        451.o        .77.5       622.9        465.3        426.4        304.7        294.0        285.8        289.8       286.3        284.9         285.6        1,760.0
applications 7/
Loans and Equity for SODEPA                 649.2        113.0        173.6        227.8       122.9         38.5                                    -            -            -            -            -
Loans an Orants to  0N1NDER                  332                       78.5  78.5   75.6        67.3         20.6          -            -            -            -                  -            -              -
kleistry of Livestock Expendturs 8/          Mi.,         I 0.3       327.4       300.5        257.3         32.4         39.5         42.7         42.7         42.7         42.7         42.7         42.7          211.2
I1RD Loan Repaymneet                        3Y,2          ,.1,4        95.3       107.8        168.9        157.8        256.5        250,.5       256.5        256.5        256.5        256.5        2            2,052.0
Total                                   73à.2        577i.    , 74.e          711.7        52o.4        249.3        296.0        299.2        299.2        299.2        299.2        299.2        299.2        2,263.2
Net Cash Flow                               (4 1.2> ..   (125.8)     (197.3)       (88.8)      (131-1)      177.1          8.7         (5.2)       (13.4)        (9.4)       (12.9)       (14.3)       (13.6)        (503.2)
Cumsulative Balance                            -        (587.0)      (78),.3)     (873.1)   (1,004.2)       (827.1)     (818.4)      (823.6)      (837.0)      (846.4)      (859.3)      (873.6)      (887.2)      (1,390.4)
1/  The deta,ild prosect co-te ie   ur.ses 4 throseh 8 have h-on isended to takl  ascsut of U,e priae inr,eases since the appraisal rnission uas ln tie field.  Changes are as follows: civil works cost 12%;
rnachinery  and equip,ient 8U; operatirt costs, I`uels, and perticides 35%; livestock 15%; and expatriate salaries 109..
2/ Excluùsi  oontinisncies.
4/ Ansex 3, Table l0.
5/ Anses 12.
6/  CFA  200 per head for 80; olf incresenta] production.
21  CFF 720 per head for 80% Of all tnererneutal sals.
8/  tarer 6, Tables 1 and 2; plus expenditureas on trasirg -nA project preparation.
February 28, 1974






ANNEX 14
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Project Life
1.        The economic rate of return has been calculated for a project life
of 20 years for ranch development, private sector developtent and tsetse-fly
extermination that would cover the economic life of major capital investments.
Benefits
2.        Benefits have been calculated on increased cattle production for
ranching, mixed farming, and tsetse-fly extermination.
Prices
3.        All prices are in 1974 terms and are based on current market
conditions. Prices in Annexes 4 to 7 have been increased as follove to
reflect price changes since 1973, civil works 12%, vehicles and equipment
9%, livestock 15% and expatriate salaries 10%.
Costs
4.        Include investment and operating costs, except price contingencies,
training, and consultants for project preparation. Fifty per cent of
SODEPA's headquarters costs have been included to cover overheads for ranch
development.
Results
5.        Details for calculating project component rates of return are in
Annexes 5, 6, 7, and 8 and are summarized in Table 1 of this Annex.






CANEROON
tLivetonk Project
Eronomic Rate af Return-
(OFAF Millions)
FIl      F2P2      Fr 3       924         F2PY5       Fr6      F27   F2 8   Fr9         Fr10    921 il       2Y12    Fr 13    Fr314    Fr 15    F1 16    F1 17    Fr 18    fl2             F1PY20
Inareontal. Casts
SODFPA Headquarters 2/                        22.1      19.2     10.0        19.0)       12.5       12.5    12.5   12.5       12.5      12.5      12.5     12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5c     12.5     12.5
SOWEA Ranchas 2/                             2.3       338.9    278.7       422.9       352.0      256.2   231.7  227.9    230.3    220.2    215.5    215.5    215.5    215.5    2i5.5    215.5    215.5    215.5    215.5    215.5
Frivate Sectar Livestook Develaprnent 5L/   434.9       73.5     9)"        115.1       122.5;      7.5    55.0   55.6        54.0      55.9     49.1      48.8      39.5      33.8      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5
Tsetse-fly Extermination 2/                   i8.       405    327.4    j,75.         1,055qb.     836.5   320.5   61.9       61.9      61.9     61.9      61.9      51.9      61.9      61.9      61.9      61.9      63 .9     61.9     61.9
Total Increrrntal Cost                     3X.        7100»   725.0      ,510       1,532~9   1,178.2   619.7  357.9    358.2    346.5    339.0    338.7    329.4    323.7    324.4    324.4    324.4    324.4    324.4    324.4
Insovenetal Benefira
SODRFA Ranches 3/1                                        .      717        3~0         33.         7.       8.    5.        342.6    339.8    328.1    3253    368           3.8        2.8      326.8    326.8    326.8    326.8  1,128.2
FPrtvste Sectar Developeent 4/-                           .        3.7       31.3        60.3       05-5   85.4   93.6    1032.2    i15.9    126.3    129.5    127.8    123 .1    1o6.8    106.8    106.8    106.8    106.8    310.8
Tsetse-Fly Extermination 5/                    -         -        (.)         (7A6       66.1      17 01.0   399.4, 685.4    686.)4   686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4    686.4  3,728.4
Total Incrmeactal Benefit,                   -        9.2    285.6        321.8       49b.2      624.6   871.4 1,138.0 1,131.2  1,151.1  1,150.8  1,141l.2  1,141.0  1,136.3  1,120.0  1,120.0  1,120.0  1,120.0  1,120.0  5,167.4
Net Benefits 3a6   (3811.1)  (4L .5)  (1,330.2)  (1,036.7)   (553.6)  251.   780.1    772.5    79_.6    801.8    802.5    8iî.6    812.6    795.6    795.6    795.6    795.6    795.6  4,843.0
Rate af Retarn l-,
1,/  The detailed projeat cont,, i  An-ces Il  -icsuh 9have bee- mnne to t.ke arasant oef thc  -race increases since the appraisal mistion cas ho the field.  Changes are as follawa:  aivil ,aorks costs 12%; machiner-y and
eqxpnpet 8%; operatiag costa, i'rAs, and ro  Isilc- 35,c; ii-teatk 153; aMd exaptriate salaries 102".
5 'rX7.
4/Armea 5.
Annex 6.
February 27, 1974






IBRO 10586
eo  \  1  >çv Jo < > 7E77EMEEE 197~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                   N
JN                           f~~~~~~~ 
R~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ .     . .A . .: . . .-t .. . .
J4         Ç }                    X                    X    S       9    i ,,~~~~~~~~~~'  0os
Z )  z  S  Z__         a      /C0<X   rszZj  ~~~~~~~_           QR    s 
~~ TCGO ~ ~ ~
A~~~~~~ N                                                                             o   Ji é 






UN ITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                   2 
CAMEROON LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                            f                  iAKfcHAV
TSETSE  FLY  DISTRIBUTION
-E1                         N~~~~~~~~~~~HR 12 2H 40'0
C HMRSIIUAS F -4 40 fILOHETEIS                                                                I
gg/ GMORsTANSDUMEESISCEISOKLMER                                                   t       f eR       USIT HFAETUBLIL    '
Xe  N             22                            O   20   40HIGIE  MILES                       _   s 
-1    . R  . C L .    E R E  4   . 0   21 4   5i;J/r  Wr 
DUC a                                                              D      kGG     MrU  
*  o.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*     HG EI4000USCAUNIGROHUHE7,                                 t*            t  9                         *   >   Q
PRDVISIDNALTSETSE4 DISTRIEUTIDN MUT CDNPILED FRDM04 THEPLLDWING UFE $444424v  gs,v.  
DR45545405HSTRDMICEAD AREPATITID DUR CTOSNS *$144I4 E @*X_
N  l*, C  E2  ` I 2`A  .   UtaDT5s~ ~ ~~       `      ` - >-              ,  A 
*                                                                                            /
|  `8 {;-9é,'.  EQ b`  g  *BAMEN[6A                                                                             c    `      E N I R,&
|~ ~~~~~~~~~M ?d `ù                                                                                                  R 1       NbGg'`\Rt  u    
M  M~~~~~~~~ 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N' ~4I  %A  ''`tE-A                                                    ",C  S                                  an,
| {~~~~~~~~~~~~~kiYdSmRR             )  - I   N                   'C    `J  N `
,   U*9  ;MbOUCH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b,k
5ANk NM                    
|         Îzl   A                 '           '`
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A'ME                                  '        74 / fN      uo X,\` ogEls        u> s                       u,g
°n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HCAU~\



