Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Re" N- P-3928-OK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNrT EQUIVALENT TO US$23.0 MILLION
TO THE
GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGNISATION
WITH TEE GUARANTEE
OF THE
SULTANATE OF OMAN
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
January ?2, 1985
Tfi document hss a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipienis only in the performance or
their oldml duties. Its contents may nw otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983            sN;ovember 1984
Currency Unit                   Rial Omani                   RO
US$I                            RO 0.345                    0.345
R0 1              =             US$Z2.895                  $2.895
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL -Direct Exchange Line
GDP -Gross Domestic Product
GTO -General Teleconmmiucatioa Organisation



SULTANAIE OF OMAN         FOR OFFICAL USE OLNLY
SECOND TELECOMEUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bore-ower and
Beneficiarr:     The General Teleconmunication Organisation (GIM)
Guarantor:       The Sultanate of Oman
Amount:          US$23.0 Million equivalent.
Terms:           10 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Obiectives
and Description: The proposed project is designed to further strengthen GMD as an
institution to enable it to manage most work in the sector by
1990. Through a balanced package of works, the project would
expand the local telephone facilities in existing telephone
switching ceaters, provide telephone service for the first time
to about 37 rural communities and expand domestic long distance
and international telephone facilities to carry the additional
traffic generated by local network expansions. The project
includes: (a) provision and installation of (i) about 65,000
additional lines of local exchange equipment with associated
cables and subscriber plant to provide about 62,000 subscriber
connections and about 460 local/long distance public call
offices; (ii) a digital international exchange of about 600
lines; (iii) transmission equipment (including satellite
communications equipment, microwave and spur links) to carry the
projected traffic loads- (iv) equipment for extension of the
mobile telephone network; and (v) miscellaneous equipment
including a computer for telephone billing and other data
processing applications, training equipment, equipment for
maritime communications, teleprinters and vehicles; (b)
construction of exchange buildings and staff accommodation; and
(c) carrying out of tariff studies, establishment of an
economic studies unit, computerization of accounting and other
functions, development and implementation of technical and
financial training programs. The project is expected to
benefit, directly or indirectly, all segments of the Omani
society. The project faces no unusual risks. The fundamental
risk that the major institutional project objective of leaving
GMO with sufficient in-house capabilities to manage most
development and operational work in the sector by 1990 may not
be met is minimal in that regular consultaticn should lead to
identification of appropriate measures and resources needed for
timely realization of the objective. The risk that GTO's
planning and implementation capacity may not be sufficient to
execute the proposed project is likewise minimal in light of
GTO's past performance, its intent to delineate management
responsibility for planning and project implementation and
measures included in the project to establish an economic
studies unit and train GTO staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
items for
Bank
Local    Foreign   Total    Financins
(USS Million)-
Switching equipment                        3.1      14.6      17.7         4.8
External plant                             8.4       IS.O     27.4         5.6
Subscriber plant                          10.8        7.1     17.9         3.2
Transmission systems                       5.0      33.0      38.0         4.0
Mobile System                              8.4       19.1     27.5
Miscellaneous (gentex, computer.
coin boxes, vehicles, etc.)             10.1      19.2      29.3
Buildings                                 12.8       11.1     23.9
Consultancy services and training          4.0       4.6       8.6         i.0
Total Base Costs                        62.6     127.7    190.3         18.6
Contizenies6:
Physical                                 3.0       2.5       5.5         0.4
Price                                    7.4      24.6      32.0         4.0
Total Project Costs                       73.0     154.8    227.8         23.0
Financing Plan:                            Local    Forei      Total
~4uf -N1MllSon)-
IRD                                       -         23.0      23.0
GMO                                       73.0      83.9    156.9
Government                                          47.9      47.9
73.0     154.8    227.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          FY86       FY87       FY88      FY89       FY90      FY91
(US$ Million)
Annual             6.1       6.2        4.7       2.0        2.5        1.5
Cumulative         6.1      12.3       17.0      19.0       21.5      23.0
Rate of Return: 16 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3311-OM, dated January 14, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANISATION WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE SULTANATE OF OMAN FOR A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the General Teleconmmuication Organisation with the guarantee of the
Sultanate of Oman for the equivalent of US$23.0 Million to help finance a
Second Telecommunications Project. The loan would has-e a term of ten years,
including four and a half years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate.
.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "'Oman Current Economic Position and Prospects",
(2528-OM) was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1979. A
missi-'a to review and update recent economic developments visited Oman in
Acril 1984. Its findings are reflected in the following paragraphs.
3.       Oman is an oil-exporting country located southeast of Saudi Arabia
and adjacent to the United Arab Emirates in the Arabian Peninsula. This could
lead one into placing Om'n in the same category as its wealthy neighbors, such
as UAE or Kuwait, and thus concluding that modernization and development are
e-asily within its grasp or financial capacity to acquire. The country's more
visible signs of wealth and progress, however, tend to obscure the important
fact that the history of modern Oman did not begin until barely a decade ago.
Prior to 1970, Oman was closed to the outside world under the rule of a Sultan
who resisted all modernizing influences and attempted to keep 3man a
traditional state. Subsistence agriculture, artisanal fishing and minor
handicraft activities were basically the way of life in the country. At the
same time, the southern province of Dhofar was subjected to a long and costly
guerrilla warfare that continued until 1975.
Past Economic Developments
4.       In 1967, oil production started and with it came rising incomes and
the possibility of establishing a modern economy. Rapid economic development,
however, was initiated only in 1970 when Sultan Qaboos came to power,
resulting in a remarkable transformation of the economy. In the short span of
14 years, economic infrastructure has been built up from a very rudimentary
stage and impressive gains have been made in education, health and housing.
Rapid increases in personal incomes and in the expansion of public services
have improved substantially the living conditions of the population,
particularly those in the urban centers. In 1970, less than one thousand
children were in school, there was only one small hospital, hardly any
electricity and piped water, and only 10 kilometers of asphalt roads in a
country with an area of some 300,000 square kilometers and about a million



-2-
people. Now the schools have almost 170,000 pupils, there are over 2.100
hospital beds and more than 3,200 kilometers of asphalted roads. Urban areas
are almost fully supplied with electricity and running water and a growing
part of the rural areas are gaining access to these services.
5.       Nevertheless, the high average per capita income of $6,000 estimated
for 1983 gives an exaggerated impression of the country's real wealth for
three reasons. First, incomes are highly skewed in favor of urban areas
largely inhabited by foreigners (two-thirds of the non-agricultural labor
force is estimated to be expatriate). Second, vital infrastructure (human and
physical) is still lacking compared with countries of a much lower average
income, but a longer history of economic modernization.  Third, the productive
base of the economy is still very narrow, depending overwhelmingly on oil.
6.       Diversification efforts have been hampered by the scarcity of skilled
Omani manpower, a major factor behind the lack of project preparation,
evaluation and implementation capacity. To alleviate this constraint, the
Government has pursued a liberal policy towards the import of expatriate
labor, while at the same time emphasizing education and training programs for
Omaui nationals. While in the short and medium term it would be impossible to
carry out rapid economic development without expatriate labor, the Government
realizes that the presence of a large number of expatriate workers also has
its costs, such as the outflow of foreign exchange through worker remittances
(almost 20 percent of oil revenues), the physical infrastructure needed to
support these workers, their increased consumption of scarce resources, e.g.
water, and their socio-cultural impact.
7.       The rapid growth of the economy in the 1970's was stimulated
primarily by high levels of government expenditures fueled by rising oil
revenues. The period 1974-76 witnessed a sharp increase in such expenditures
from a very low base. After a period of relatively slower growth due to
strains on physical and financial resources, government spending was stepped
up again in 1979-83 as oil revenues increased, raising che share of public
administration and defense to nearly one-third of gross domestic product
(GDP). Nevertheless, the budget recorded surpluses averaging 12 percent of
gross domestic product during 1979-81, which were utilized largely to build up
a General Reserve Fund. The decline in oil prices changed the fiscal
situation considerably; the budget balance deteriorated sharply in 1982 and
1983 resulting in a small deficit (2 percent of GDP) in the latter year.
8.       With the gradual elimination of physical bottlenecks and the adoption
of liberal labor immigration policies, the large government outlays together
with indured private sector investments resulted in a growth of non-oil
economic activity at an average rate of close to 10 percent p.a. so that it
now accounts for about half of total GDP. Manufacturing, in particular,
expanded briskly as new proie ts came on stream but still accounted for only
about two percent of total GDP in 1983. The first full year of production of
Oman's first oil refinery, as well as the coming on stream of a copper smelter
and a major cement plant, have contributed to this effort.
9.       In spite of the rapid development of the non-oil economy, about
50 percent of Oman's GDP is produced by the petroleum sector. Crude oil
exports dominate Oman's balance of payments, accounting for over 99 percent of



-3-
the country's exports. They were mainly responsible for the large surpluses
recorded in the balance of payments during the years 1979-82. In 1983 a sharp
decline in oil prices and resulting stagnation in oil revenues together with a
continued high growth of imports of goods and services and large increases in
workers' remittances being sent abroad caused Oman's current account balance
to deteriorate, showing a deficit for the first time in the past five years
compared with surpluses at a record level of over $1 billion in 1980 and
1961.
10.      Oil will maintain its dominant position in the medium term even
though Oman has set the production ceiling at about the current output. level
of about 410,000 barrels per day, in order to conserve the long-term output of
oil reserves. Higher production, however, might prove necessary if oil prices
remain stagnated and high growth in government expenditures and workers'
remittances remain unabated. Large amounts are being invested to expand
exploration activity, and identified reserves have risen to 3 billion barrels,
sufficient to maintain the present production level for another twenty years.
Oman also has considerable natural gas reserves; a substantial proportion of
these, however, will be conserved for oil field injection and power
generation, leaving umallocated proven reserves below the threshold needed for
competitive gas exports.
Development Strategy and Economic Prospects
11.      Since oil resources are expected to be depleted a generation from
now, the long-term prospects of the Omani economy depend on the country's
capacity to further diversify its productive base. Almost half of the value
of non-oil production has hitherto originated from construction, public
administration and defense. However, unlike several of its neighbors in the
Gulf, Oman has some potential for exploitation of natural resources besides
oil. There are long-established agricultural settlements scattered throughout
the country in areas where sufficient water is available. Relatively large
increases from the present low crop yields appear feasible through
introduction of modern production techniques and improved quality of inputs.
There is good potential for coastal fisheries and sufficient deposits of some
minerals, such as copper and chromite, have been found to justify further
exploration. The productive base could also be widened through development of
selected import substitution industries for non-durable consumer goods and
downstream copper products. The Government's objective is to encourage the
private sector to assume a lead role in non-oil activities.
12.      Since the volume of oil production is unlikely to increase much
further and prices are projected to improve modestly, oil export earnings are
likely to grow from $3.9 billion in 1983 to about $5.4 billion in 1988. These
earnings would be supplemented marginally by copper and agricultural exports.
This modest increase in exports, obviously, will affect growth of Government
revenues, the overall savings performance of the economy, and the ba"lance of
payments. In particular, continued high growth in government recurrent
expenditures and workers' remittances, while maintaining reasonably high
investment level, would soon lead to rapidly increasing budget and balance of
payments deficits difficult to finance in the longer term. In view of the
Government's past record of prudent management, it is likely to take the
necessary measures to avoid these risks even at the price of a substantially
lower growth of non-oil GDP than that achieved over the last years.



-4-
13.      To facilitate this adjustment, further efforts will have to be made
to mobilize domestic resources and develop demand management tools. Although
government revenues from non-oil sources have satisfactorily increased in
recent years, several possible options to increase their share remain open.
For instance, a moderate indirect tax on selected luxury goods could yield
additional revenue and at the same time slow down consumption of such goods.
A tax on domestic sales of petroleum producrts, as well as other indirect
taxes, could be introduced. A reassessment of the present income tax
structure, improvement of tax administration, and gradual reintroduction of
property taxes are among other possible measures to augment no-oil revenues.
There is also a need for reconsideration of the rates charged on publicly
provided services, particularly electricity tariffs, where revenues fall short
of costs. These measures should be combined with further restrictive measures
to curb the rapid growth of public recurrent expenditures and private
consumption, and with a thorough re-evaluation of the country's development
priorities and investment program, in particular those item which had not
been specified earlier in the current Plan that may compete for funds needed
for the high priority projects.
14.      The concept of domestic resource mobilization would apply also to
Oman's domestic manpower. The major efforts to upgrade the skills of domestic
labor and to increase participation rates will need to be maintained in order
to replace the large expatriate population. Such efforts would enable the
country, in the medium term, to contain the fairly large and rapidly
increasing share of revenues that it spends on expatriate labor.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
15.      Oman's external public debt amounted to about $1.1 billion at the end
of 1983; this corresponds to l'ttle more than 14 percent of GDP or 27 percent
of total net foreign exchange reserves (including the General Reserve Fund).
The debt service ratio had declined rapidly over the last years from 9.3
percent in 1978 to 3.4 percent in 1983. The present foreign debt burden,
thus, is very small. The trend, however, is towards an increasing debt
burden; total foreign debt outstanding has doubled since 1981, and this upward
move is likely to continue over the next years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN OMAN ''
16.      Bank lending to Oman began in 1974.  As of September 30, 1984, seven
loans totalling $76.4 million (net of cancellati',ns) had been made; of this,
about $66.0 million is now held by the Bank. A swiunary statement of Bank
loans to Oman as of September 30, 1984 is provided in Annex II.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(No. P-3786-OM, dated April 24, 1984) for the Second Education Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1984.



5
17.      Bank loans to Oman have been principally directed towards the
provision of technical assistance in crucial areas, the relief of national
manpower constraints, and the development of appropriate policies and
investmeot strategies in priority sectors. A Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 985-OM) helped Oman to establish the Development Council, the
Government's key institution for economic management and planning. Two
Education Projects are helping to increase national educational opportunities
and improve standards. Highways Maintenance and the First Telecommunications
Projects have helped establish and develop Oman's institutional capacity to
manage two of its more important infrastructure programs effectively. These
two sectors are viewed by the Government as essential to integrate the various
parts and tribes of the country into a whole and to strengthen national
unity.
18.      Projects under implementation consist of three operations:
telecommunications, highways maintenance and education. No major problems
have been encountered and implementation is proceeding smoothly. The
disbursement rate for Bank loans to Oman that have become effective as of
September 1984 is, at 57 percent of appraisal estimates, above those for other
countries in the region.
19.      The Second Highways Maintenance Project (Loan 2084-OM) was expected
to be the last lending operation of the Bank in Oman. However, it was
subsequently discussed and agreed with the Government in the context of the
Bank's graduation policy that the Bank would resume its lending operations in
Oman over a brief graduation period. During this period, the Bank's lending
strategy would be directed at: (i) consolidation of gains (particularly
institutional development) attained through the implementation of completed or
ongoing Bank-assisted projects; and (ii) selection of a few crucial sectors
where development still lags behind.  In lint with this strategy, a lending
program up to FY86 includes a Second Education Project (Loan 2419-')M), the
proposed Telecommunications II Project and proposed projects in the highways
and health sectors. Apart from health, the Bank has had previous involvement
in all the other sectors. A health project, however, is particularly crucial
in Oman where the prevailing life expectancy is only 50 years.
20.      In addition to the lending program described above, technical
cooperation between the Bank and Oman will continue to be an important feature
of Bank involvement. In this context, the Bank has provided assistance to the
Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor towards the establishment of a Manpower
Planning Unit. Continuing Bank assistance in the implementation of a manpower
planning program through 1985 is proceeding satisfactorily. The Manpower
Planning Unit has been established and became the Manpower Planning Department
as of June 1, 1983. The Bank will continue to provide technical support to
this Department in the implementation of its work program, focussing on the
improvement of the data base and the execution of special sector studies. In
addition, the Bank, upon request of the Govrernment, has assessed the manpower
implications of the Second Five-Year Development Plan and advised on the
formulation and implementation of a minimum wage policy and its economic and
social implications. It has also assessed the needs for rural training and
advised on a strategy for broadening the scope of vocational training in the
agriculture, fisheries and rural handicrafts subsectors. The Government has
recently requested assistance in the area of national account compilation;
this assistance will be included in the economic and sector work program for
FY85.



-6-
21.      To date, IFC has made only one investment in Oman-a $2 million
equity participation in the Oman Development Bank. IFC has at present no
project pipeline in Oman but will continue to explore opportunities for
further investment.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Oraanization
22.      The Ministry of Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones regulates the
telecommunications services within the country, allocates radio frequencies
for all services and licenses private radio installation. Under the Ministry.
the General Telecommunication Organisation (GTO)-a state-owned public
enterprise-is responsible for all public telecommunications in the country
including international telephone and telegraph services. The Civil Aviation
and Defense Departments, as well as the national oil company.. Petroleum
Development Oman, Ltd., operate their own telecommunications facilities but
also lease some circuits from GTO. Oman has no telecommunications industry.
Access. Facilities, Usage, Quality of Service and Demand
23.      As of end 1983, Oman had an average telephone density of about 1.7
telephone lines in service per 100 inhabitants, which is far below the average
of 14 lines per 100 for the other Gulf countries. Telephone service is
available in the Capital area'' and in 18 of the 41 Wilayats (government
administrative units). The Capital area, with about 14 percent of the
country's population, had 65 percent of the telephone lines in service.
Nonetheless, with a density of about 7.6 lines per 100 inhabitants, Muscat
ranks below other major urban centers in the Gulf region (e.g., Kuwait 11.8,
Riyadh 11.5, Abu Dhabi 14.9 and Dubai 15.9). About 17 percent of the lines
are in the southern city of Salalah and the remaining 18 percent serve 19
smaller settlements. There are 57 local/long distance public call cffices, of
which only 9 are located outside the Capital area and Salalah. It is
estimated that only about 40 percent of the population enjoys access to
telephone service. An automated telex service is available to 978
subscribers, 844 in the Capital area and 134 in Salalah. An international
telegraph service is available, and a domestic service has been recently
introduced.
24.      About 49 percent of telephone lines existing at the end of 1983 were
residential, 19 percent were government and 32 percent business.  (In the
Capital area, about 41 percent were residential, 19 percent government and
40 percent business.) There is no available data on traffic composition,
1/ The Capital area is defined as the coastal strip of about 50 km in length
stretching from Al Bustan, a little southeast of Muscat, to Seeb on the
west of the Capital city.



-7-
though the percentage due to business activity is higher than the above data
might indicate due to the use of some residential lines for business
purposes. The average telephone revenue per direct exchange line (DEL) in
1983 was approximately $1,900. This is high by international standards, due
partly to the fact that supply of new lines has been constrained, and existing
lines sometimes have multiple users. About 85 percent of this is call
revenue, divided as 42 percent local and long distance and 58 percent
international call fees. The average revenue per telex line in 1983 was
approximately $16,400.
25.      At end 1983, total equipped telephone switching capacity was 30,096
*      lines and telex exchange capacity 2,700 lines.  The respective percentages of
lines connected to subscribers for these services were only 71 and
36 percent. The low exchange fill in the case of telephone lines is due to
delays in the past in the provision of cable networks and of subscriber
connections, and in the case of telex lines, is due to the fact that adequate
capacity was provided only in 1983 to meet demand up to 1988. Switching
equipment in the Capital area introduced under the first Bank-assisted
Telecomamnications Project (Loan 1884-OM) is of the digital type while other
equipment in the Capital area and in the interior is mostly of the crossbar
type which had been installed within the last ten years. Telex service has
been automated and electronic since 1980. The long distance domestic network
comprises coaxial cable, microwave radio and some satellite circuits (which
provide television relay facilities between Muscat and several inland centers
to enable programs to be rebroadcast by regional transmitters). The quality
of service is generally acceptable, though there is some congestion in the
urban areas due to the heavy traffic usage of connected lines. Line outage is
generally acceptable and maintenance standards reasonable, with 13 faults per
100 lines reported in May 1984, for example, and 78 percent of the cable
faults cleared within 48 hours and 83 percent of other faults within 24 hours.
26.      As of end 1983, lines in service met only 48 percent of the total
registered demand for telephone service (working lines plus registered
applications for new lines), the ratio being only 42 percent outside the
Capital area and Salalah. It is expected that most of the current unsatisfied
demand in the urban areas will ae met with the commissioning of all new
exchanges iuider the ongoing project. Demand for telephone lines is expected
to grow by about 16 percent p.a. from 44,800 in 1983 to about 116,000 by
1990. GTO has initiated, with the help of consultants, preparation of a new
Telecommunications Master Plan covering the period up to the year 2005.  The
preliminary report on demand, which should be available by March 1985, will
establish the timing of capacity additions to urban area exchanges under the
proposed project and produce (through outside surveys) better estimates of the
distribution of prospective subscribers in the new rural centers to be
served.
Sector Background and Goals
27.      A major increase in the rate of telecommunications sector investment
has taken place since 1982. While planned investment for the Second Five-Year
Development Plan period (1981-85) was $160 million, actual investment foi the
period is now expected to be $287 million, because the investment originally
planned was inadequate to meet the demand for service. As this expanded



-8
investmnt is utilized, the contribution of telecoumunications to Omsa's GDP
should rise significantly (the share of telecommunications amounted to about
0.7 percent from 1976 to 1982).
28.      The higher level of investment is indicative of a strong commitment
by the Government to the role of telecommunications in development. Broadly,
country sector goals are: (i) the provision of an effective teleconmmunications
service as a prerequisite of economic diversification; and (ii) the continued
development of GTO as an efficient telecommunications organization with
effective technical and financial management. Specifically, over the
development period 1985-19'v0, total telephone exchange capacity is planned to
grow at an average rate of 28 percent p.a. to enable 95 percent of anticipated
demand to be met by 1990; the percentage of total population with access to
telephone service is to be increased to about 65 percent with the installation
of exchanges and public call offices in additional rural townships and village
communities; the connected lines per 100 population is to be increased from
1.7 (in 1983) to 7.2 in 1990; GTO's efficiency is to be increased through
improvements in organization and management and increased staff training.
Sector Constraints
29.      Modern telecommunications facilities in Oman were introduced only in
1975. Expansion of telecommunications facilities has been rapid since then.
Constraints on the sector partly reflect the fact that the sector is
essentially only 10 years old. Currently, the three main sector constraints
on development are: (a) the capacity of GTO to plan and manage a network
expansion on the scale envisaged; (b) the availability of data for planning
purposes; and (c) the availability of qualified Omani staff.
Bank's Role
30.      The Bank has been associated with the telecommunications sector in
Oman since 1977 through two projects-a Technical Assistance Project (Loan
985-OM for $2.75 million) and the First Telecommunications Project (Loan
1884-OM for $22.0 million). The major construction works under Loan 1884-OM
have been completed and final subscriber connections are expected to be
completed by 1986. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1985 in
line with appraisal estimates. All covenants have been met with the exception
of that concerning accounts receivable (para. 49). Implementation of the
project has been satisfactory.
31.      The Bank has made significant contributions towards the achievement
of sector goals through these two loans as follows:
(a) A Telecommunications Master Plan for the period 1979-90 represented
the first systematic effort at planning sector development and,
pending the revised Plan to the year 2005, remains the most
comprehensive planning document available to GTO;
(b) The establishment of GTO as an efficient, basically well-managed
organization;
(c) continuing technical, financial and economic advice tendered through
regular Bank supervision missions under both loans which has been a



-9-
crucial factor in the institutional development of GM. For example,
prior to 1980 GIO worked on cash accounts, draft accounts were more
than two years late and there were no asset records. G10 nro
operates a connercial accounting system and accounts are prepared on
time with draft accounts ready within two onths of year-end. GTO
also regularly prepares financial forecasts.
32.      The Bank's participation in the proposed project is expected to leave
GTO. by 1990, with sufficient in-house capabilities to manage most development
and operatinal work in the sector.  The measures that need to be taken to
effectively address the sector constraints on development are:
(a) streigthening GMW's pLanning and project implementation organization;
(b) supporting GCO's effortc to increase the number of trained, qualified
tanis;
(c) creating in-house capability for economic studies and demand
forecasting, and helping GMO establish appropriate tariff structures
in the light of the foreseen expansion of services to rural areas: and
(d) supporting activities (including computerization) to improve the flow
of financial information and increase efficiency in GMO's finance
division.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.      The proposed project comprises the Government's telecommunications
developmert program for the period 1985-90. The project was prepared by GTO
with the assistance of consultants. Appraisal of the project by the Bank took
place in July 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 17 to
December 21, 1984 with a Government delegation headed by Mr. Mohaumed Bin
Rhamis Al-Rashdy, Manager of International Services, GTM. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Second Telecommunications Project" (No. 5311-O<),
dated January 14, 1985 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and the project are mentioned in the
XLoan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
34.      The project, to be partly financed by the Bank, provides for a
balanced and integrated development of telecommunications services in Oman. A
major thrust of the project will be the continued institutional development of
the GTO aimed at enhancing its capabilities to manage work in the sector by
1990. Substantial progress has been made under the first project towards
establishing GTO as a sound, well-managed institution. However, the rapid
expansion of the network under the new project will require continued
institutional improvement in planning, project implementation, administration



- 10 -
and finance, as GTO seeks to acc^lerate the introduction of new lines. The
physical component of the project provides for: (a) expansion of local
telephone facilities in urban areas ena- ritral townships to meet 95 percent of
anticipated demand by 1990; (b) extension of telephone service to about 37
additional rural towns and village communities; and (c) expansion of domestic
lung distance and international telephone facilities to carry out the
additional traffic generated by local network expansions and extension of
service to new areas.
Proiect Description
35.      The main components of the project are:
(a) provision and installation of:
-   about 65,000 additional lines of local exchange equipment (36.000
in the Capital area, 10,000 in Salalah and 19,000 in the rest of
Oman) with associated cable and subscrib r plant to provide about
62,000 subscriber connections and about 460 local/long distance
public call offices;
-   a digital international exchange of about 600 lines;
-   equipment for upgrading one existing coaxial cable and four
microwave backbone links and for providing two new microwave
links and eight spur links; satellite communication equipment for
upgrading the earth station at Salalah, expanding the Al Hajar
earth station and establishing additional TV receive-only
stations in rural areas;
-   equipment for extension of the mobile telephone network;
-   a computer for telephone billing and other data processing
applicatious;
-   training equipment; and
-   other equipment (primarily equipaent for maritime communications,
teleprinters and vehicles).
(b) construction of exchange buildings and staff accommodations; and
(c' carrying out of tariff studies, establishment of an economic studies
unit, computerization of accounting and other functions and
development and implementation of technical and financial training
programs.
Least Cost Solution
36.      As in the case of any country with an existing telecommunications
network, the configuration of GTO's present network limits the number of
viable alternative solutions that could be considered to achieve the targets
proposed for extending and improving service during the 1985-90 period. The
Z.



- 11 -
proposed project is based on standard engineering and economic techniques,
with appropriate provisioning periods for various plants. GTO introduced
digital technology into its network in the Capital area and Salalah under the
ongoing project and plans to extend this to the international switch and to
switches and transmission links in the interior areas where it is economically
viable. In general. the technological solutions adopted in the project are
expected to be the least cost solutions both with regard to initial investment
and recurrent long-term maintenance and operating costs.
Proiect Costs and FinanciuR
37.      Total project cost is estimated at about $227.8 million.  The foreign
exchange component is about $154.8 million, or 68 percent of total project
cost. A detailed cost table appears in the Loan and Project Summarv. The
project base cost estimates reflect estimated December 1984 prices, and are
based on GTO's experience with contracts related to the ongoing project. and
on experience in other countries. GTO is exempt from the payment of customs
duties on imported goods and pays no taxes on local goods and civil works.
38.      Physical contingencies amount to about 3 percent of total base cost.
Price contingencies for the project amount to 16.3 percent of total base cost
and physical contingencies.  These cost estimates are based on local cost
increases of 5 percent p.a. from 1985 through 1990 and foreign cost increases
of 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent p.a. from 1986 through 1988, 7.5 percent in
1989 and 6.0 percent in 1990. The lower rate of 5 percent p.a. assumed for
local costs is considered reasonable on the basis of expected future local
price trends in Oman.
39.      GTO will finance, from its internally generated resources,
100 percent of local costs ($73.0 million) and 54 percent of foreign costs
($83.9 million). The balance of the foreign costs will be met by the proposed
Bank loan of $23.0 million and a loan of $47.9 million from the Government.
The Government agreed that it would make available to GTO the $47.9 million on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02 (a)). While the Bank's I-articipation in the project appears nominal in
terms of funding (about 10 percent of total project costs and less than 15
percent of foreign exchange requirements), it is viewed as substantial by the
Government in terms of technical assistance and is in line with the Bank's
role of focusing its attention on the key objectives of manpower development
*     and technical assistance.  A similar situation prevailed in the First
Telecoimrunications Project wherein the Government successfully covered the
bulk of ti.o financing requirements and utilized the Bank loan as the principal
means to acquire needed independent technical advice and institutional
development.
Procurement and Disbursements
40.      Equipment to be financed by the Bank amounting to about $22.0 million
(including contingencies) would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Ba.l-k's guidelines. All Bank-financed contracts
estimated to cost $1.0 million equivalent or more would be subject to prior
Bank review of procurement documentation; other contracts (e.g., off-the-shelf



- 12 -
items) of less than $1.0 million equivalent each will be subject to selective
post award review. G10 has initiated procurement action for these goods and
expects to award contracts by end of July 1985. Action for selection of Bank
financed consultants (total cost of about $1.0 million) in accordance with
Bank guidelines has been initiated and all consultants are expected to be in
place by December 31, 1985. The proposed Bank loan of $23.0 million would be
disbursed against full normal documentation for: (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for goods to be procured under the loan; and (b) 100 percent of
expenditure for consultants. Items to be financed by GMO and the Sultanate of
Oman are expected to be procured through negotiations with existing suppliers
and procurement procedures which permit competition. These arrangements are
similar to those under the First Telecouiunications Project and are
satisfactory.  The table below indicates how these procurement arrang ents
are to be applied.
PROCU3REMENT ARRAiGEMENTS
Under Bank     Negotiated
Item                 Guidelines 11  Purchase      Others      Total
HiS   l Mlionon
Switching equipment               7.0            9.2         1.5        17.7
(6.0)
External plant                   12.6           -           10.4        23.0
(7.0)
Subscriber plant                  8.6           -           -            8.6
(4.0)
Transmission systems              7.8           23.7         8.5        40.0
Mobile system                    (5.0)          -           23.1        23.1
Miscellaneous (gentex,
computer, coin boxes,
vehicles, etc.)                                4.9        18.4        23.3
Buildings                        -              -           13.4        13.4
Consultancy services and
training                        1.0           -           4.7          5.7
(1.0)
Total                          37.0           37.8        80.0       154.8
(23.0)
A Special Account would be used for disbursements against all expenditures.
The estimated schedule of Bank loan disbursements is presented in the Loan and
Project Suunary.  The loan is expected to be closed on June 30, 1991.
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate the portion of the cost of each item that
would be financed by the proposed Bank loan. Costs include proportionate
contingency provisions.



- 13 -
Proiect Implementation
41.      Based on the experience it gained under the First Telecommunicatons
Project and with the assistance, where necessary, of experts specifically
recruited for the purpose, GTO will implement the project. Installations will
be carried out by contractors under GTO s supervision. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1990. Bid invitations for
procurement of the switching equipment, external plant, subscriber plant and
transmission equipment for the Bank-financed component of the project are
expected to be issued by April 1985. Issuance of these invi-tations is a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Lonu Agreement, Section 7.01).
42.      Organization and Management. GTO will be the Borrower of the Bank
loan which will be guaranteed by the Sultanate of Oman. GTO is administered
by a seven-member Board of Directors whose Chairman is the Minister of Posts,
Telegraphs and Telephones and Deputy Chairman is the Minister of
Co m  ications.  Its other five member-s-all from Government-include the
President of GTO. According to its charter, GTO's Board or Directors has
authority, subject to coordination with the Ministry of Finance on fiscal
matters, to determine GTO's development policy, investment program, annual
budget, borrowings, and organization and staffing. Tariff proposals have,
however, to be approved by the Cabinet. GTO*s day-to-day affairs are
administered by its President, assisted by three general managers and two
advisers. Its organization is similar to that of other autonomous
telecommunications organizations and comprises eleven headquarters divisions
(general services, administration, purchase and stores, personnel, public
relations, training, customer services, finance, planning and projects,
telephones and transmission) and one regional office at Salalah headed by a
general manager, mainly for maintenance and operations. Field activities in
other areas are directly controlled from headquarters.
43.      GTOs management is capable of effectively administering the present
organization. The decision-making structure is highly centralized, but is
generally efficient. Information flow and general coordination between
divisions had, in the past, been weak. Some improvements have been realized
through the development of a management information system under Loan
1884-0M. Further assistance is, however, needed to update the system in view
of the rapid network expansion envisaged under the proposed project. The
functions of planning and prcject implementation currently handled by one
manager is expected to be split into two separate divisions.  In addition, a
unit for economic studies would be established under the project to prepare
regular demand forecasts, collate economic and social data and carry out
surveys, including tariff studies. The finance division would be strengthened
with the addition of a chief accountant, a systems accountant to manage the
introduction of computer systems into the division, and a training coordinator
to manage the financial training program. GTO has agreed that the accountants
and the training coordinator in the finance division will be appointed by
December 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
44.      GTO proposes to retain and finance out of its own resources
consultants to assist in project implementation. Consultancy services for
institutional development to be financed under the proposed loan cover tariff
study, assistance in establishing an economic studies unit, assistance
(including training) in computerization of accounting functions and



- 14 -
development of technical and financial training courses and programs.
Assurances have been obtained that GTO would (a) appoint such consultants no
later than December 31, 1985. in accordance with Bank guidelines and with
qualifications and terms of r-eference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish to
the Government and the Bp-k, no later than December 31, 1986, the consultants'
report on the tariff study and, thereafter, implement such of the
recommendations as are agreed among the Government, Bank and GTO; and (c)
furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1986, action plans for the establishment
of the economic studies unit, the computerization of accounting functions and
the implementation of the training program for the financial staff and,
thereafter, carry out such plans as shall have been agreed between GTO and the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02 (a) and 3.04).
45.      Staffing and Training. As of December 31, 1983, GTO's staff totalled
1,494 and operated about 21,500 direct exchange lines (DELs).  The staff ratio
of 70 per 1000 DELs is high compared to that in industrialized countries where
the ratio ranges from 10-20, but compares favorably with that in most
developing countries (the average for South Asia is about 100). With the
expansion of lines under the present project, the staff ratio is expected to
increase to about 50 by end 1985, and to about 26 percent by 1990. About
70 percent of GTO's total staff are Omanis. Of the top management, only the
manager for fi-ance is an expatriate. However, there is a high proportion
(about 60-70 per-ent) of expatriate staff in the middle management and senior
technical levels .md in the finance division. Government intends to move as
rapidly as possible toward the total "Omanization" of GTO personnel. However,
complete elimination of the need for expatriate staff by 1990 is not foreseen
because qualified Omanis will not be available in sufficient numbers. either
from outside GTO or from inside GTO, to meet the growing need for skilled
personnel. A realistic objective for the period to 1990 would be to develop
an extended training program to upgrade as many Omanis as possible from
operator to technical staff status, and to develop Omani middle management for
the finance division. The training center in GTO provides training for
technicians and operators but practical training is limited due to lack of
laboratory fa-tlities. The facilities will be expanded under the proposed
project to re-3ove this limitation and also provide training in external plant
and line techniques. GTO has been utilizing facilities in neighboring
countries and this arrangement is expected to continae in the medium term.
Some specialized telecommunications training has been, and will continue to
be, provided by equipment suppliers. Current facilities for training of
financial and administrative staff are inadequate. though some basic courses
are given by the Institute of Public Administration. A suitable training
program in these areas will be developed under the proposed project through
the provision of consultants funded under the proposed loan.
Accounting and Audit
46.      GTO switched from cash accounting to commercial, accrual accounting
in January 1981. Improvements in budget preparation processes and procedures
for control of expenditures and withdrawals, and the establishment of cost
center controls have also been effected. Improvements in cash management and
stores control are under implementation. Accounts computerization as part of
an ultimate integrated financial reporting system is now a high priority which
will be addressed under the proposed project. The quality and coverage of the



- 15 -
external audit is considered satisfactory. Unaudited accounts are produced
within four months and audited accounts within six months of the end of the
fiscal year, as agreed under Loan 1884-ON. GTO will continue to meet the same
targets under the proposed project.
Performance Indicators
47.      GTO's implementation, operational and financial performance will be
i      monitored closely through a series of indicators discussed during
negotiations. GTO will include these indicators in its ,uarterly project
progress reports, except for the financial indicators which will be reported
r      in annual financial statements.  It is expected that GTO will progressively
incorporate these performance indicators into its internal management systems.
Financial Aspects
48.      GTO's financial performance has generally been satisfactory.  It has
met the revenue covenant under the first project (Loan 1884-OM), though there
have been no tariff increases since 1978. The rate of return on revalued
assets was about 14 percent in 1981, 21 percent in 1982 and 31 percent in
1983. Net internal cash generation was 89 percent of investment requirements
in 1983 and is projected to cover 68 percent of new investment requirements
during the period 1985 to 1990. At end 1983, GTO's current assets were 2.9
times current liabilities. The debt service coverage rate has been
satisfactory and is expected to remain so.
49.      GTO was unable to meet the covenant under the first project to reduce
receivables to 60 days of billing by the end of 1984. There has, however,
been a significant improvement in performance over the past year due to new
control procedures and stricter enforcement of penalties for delinquent
payers. Accounts receivable from government subscribers, however, have yet to
be appreciably reduced. Under the proposed project, GTO has agreed that it
will decrease the level of subscriber accounts receivable to not more than 60
days billing by December 31, 1987, and maintain it at that level thereafter
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.05). It was agreed further that the Government
will cause all of its agencies to pay bills for telecommunications services
rendered by GTO within 60 days of the billing dates (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b) (iii)) by December 31, 1987. Specifics of a program to
achieve these objectives were discussed at negotiations.
50.      GTO's future financial performance is expected to be satisfactory.
The rate of return over the project period is expected to average about 13
percent on average current net value of fixed assets.  To ensure satisfactory
financial performance, including adequate cash generation to carry out the
proposed project, GTO has agreed to produce an annual rate of return of not
less than 10 percent in 1985 and 1986, 11 percent in 1987, 12 percent in 1988
and 13 percent thereafter on the average current net value of its fixed assets
in operation for each of its fiscal years (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). In
the period 1988 to 1990, strong cash surpluses are projected for GTO, over and
above the amounts needed to finance local and foreign investment costs. GTO
and the Government are presently studying appropriate mechanisms for the
distribution of GTO's net income. During negotiations GTO confirmed that it
will keep the Bank informed about the results of the study and that its plans



- 16 -
to put into place an appropriate mechanism by December 31, 1985. GTO is
reviewing the adequacy of the methods of asset valuation which were introduced
under the First Telecomnunications Project since the impact of lower inflation
and lower equipment costs due to technology improvements have probably
rendered them conservative.
Tariffs
51.      There have been neither changes to tariff levels since 1978 nor an
examination of the tariff structure to determine the costs and economic role
of various services. The current structure is based upon differential tariffs
among users for connection fees and, no differential vis-a-vis rentals.  Local
and long-distance calls are pulse coded with different tariffs for day and
night calls. Pulse duration is inversely related to distance. In general,
tariffs are comparable to other developing countries. It will, however, be
necessary to determine tariff structure for certain new services. For
example, tariffs for the mobile telephone system should be set to fully
reflect the economic cost of the service and should not be cross-subsidized by
other services. It will be important _o review the impact of tariff structure
and level in view of the expected change in real effective demand in the later
years of the project. Provision has, therefore, been made under the project
to finance technical assistance to help GTO carry out a tariff study (para.
44).
Benefits
52.      Telecommunications services benefit all sectors of Oman's economy.
Compared with alternative means of communications, telecommunications are
usually more efficient in terms of capital and energy consumption and user
time. With adequate telecommunications facilities, the level and variety of
productive communications can be increased considerably, and activities which
would otherwise not be feasible can be realized. Telecommunications can be
expected to play an increasingly significant role in Oman as concerted efforts
are made to diversify the economy and improve social services. Examples of
economic development that will be assisted through the project are: (a) the
development of the Musandam peninsula with fisheries potential and the Buraimi
area with agricultural potential-the Sultanate of Oman has attached high
priority to strengthening the links between these remote regions and the
existing economic centers in Oman; (b) increased provision of social
infrastructure, particularly schools and hospitals, in the main rural centers;
(c) the location of small artisanal industries and agricultural marketing
centers in the rural areas; and (d) the planned development of industrial
estates in Sohar and Salalah. A further impact of the telecommunications
investment program is its ability to mobilize surplus funds for use by the
Government in other sectors.
53.      The planned increase of line installation rates under the project
will permit an increase in the proportion of demand met by services from about
48 percent in 1983 to about 95 percent in 1990 for the country as a whole.
The provision of exchange capacity outside the Capital area (in the 20
towns/villages which already have a limited service and 37 other
towns/villages, presently without telephone service) and installation of about
180 public call offices in the rural areas will enable service to be extended



- 17 -
to smaller settlements. The upgrading of the microwave transmission network
and the addition of spur routes creates the capability for extension of
services in the future, at least cost, to new settlements. Benefits should
thus be distributed far more widely than was possible under the first project.
Return on Investment
ti.     54.      The internal financial rate of return on the 1985-90 investment
program, based on existing tariffs, is 16 percent. There is some
cross-subsidization of the rural program by the program for the Capital area
r      and Salalah because of the lower projections of revenue per DEL in the rural
areas. No conversion factors are needed to derive an economic rate of return
from the financial rate of return in Oman because: (a) the Omani rial is
freely convertible; (b) the trade regime is very open, with negligible import
tariffs or other restrictions; (c) there are no major price distortions; and
td) labor is mobile and wages reflect international market prices, largely due
to the high expatriate component in the labor force. However, considering
that the value in real terms of existing tariffs declines over time, the
economic rate of return understates the value to new subscribers of the
service.
55.      Sensitivity analysis on the economic rate of return was performed to
study the effect of: (1) a 10 percent increase in capital and in operating
costs, together with a 10 percent decrease in revenue; and (2) a delay in the
expansion of the exchanges in the Capital area and Salalah by 2 years,
together with a delay by one year in the benefits of the rural component. In
the worst case, the economic rate of return based on existing tariffs falls to
11 percent.
Risks
56.      The fundamental risk is that the major institutional objective of the
proposed project, i.e., to leave GTO, by 1990, with sufficient in-house
capabilities to manage development and operational work in the sector may not
be met. This risk is considered minimal in that regular consultation should
lead to identification of appropriate measures and resources needed for timely
realization of the objective. The risk that GTO's planning and implementation
capacity may not be sufficient to execute the proposed project is likewise
minimal in the light of GTO's past performance, its intention to delineate
management responsibility for planning and project implementation and measures
included in the project to establish an economic studies unit and train GTO
staff.
Environmental Aspects
57.      The project will have no significant adverse environmental or health
aspects. Telecommunications promote energy conservation and reduce
environmental pollution to the extent that it can substitute for physical
transportation.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the General
Telecomnunication Organisation (GTO), the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the SultAnate of Oman and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article 3, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special features of the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III.
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 22, 1985
Washington, D.C.



TAILK-19-                                v(age 1 of 5)
SIAN            - ~~SOCIAL UIATSDTAUI
SIAN~~ inmaC mourST 0v1~8 SUSs <jJ Lu
MOST               (HOST UCSt 5TMAp lb
lpabL~  i,iotk.  "MN L   HIG INcUNznSDDL               I
gS9 STI3S5    OIL OUOZSES       li 4Ach & KI1 CUST
mu5 cmun8 S. 55)
TOTAL                               300.0 lc   300.0 Ic  300.0 /c
A0RICLLTSW  L.A                                 10.4-     10.4 
MC  CAP=  (M)                          55s.o     u490.0    6090.0          1495.6                &149.6
(KILOGRAMS O OIL EQtVALNTM            ..       660.0     916.0           38566                 f22.I
lmuUAflO AM LW VT   STATRSZC
POPUATION.NID-YEAR CTHOUSANUS)     505.0       654.0    1079.0
038 FPOIUTION CZ Or TOTAL)           3.5         5.1      20.0             87.2                 4.2
POULMATION POJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TUS 2000 (HILL)                            1.8
STATIOS.Y POPULATION (lULL)                              3.6
POPULATIOXN OIWI                                         L.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq. M.                          1.7        2.2       3.4             24.2                 36.3
FER Sq. IN. AGQt. LAND            48.7        63.1      98.8            292.8                481.7
POPULATnJS AGE STRUCTURE (T)
0-14 TRS                          43.3       44.1      "4.9             45.5                 43.6
15-.4 'RS                         54.0        53.2      51.5             51.6                 33.1
65 AMID A80                         2.7        2.7       2.8              2.7                  3.3
POPnLATIO  ROWIl RATE (S)
TOTAL                               2.0        2.6       4.2              5.2                  2.8
URBAN                              5.3         6.3      16.8              8.6                  4.5
CRUDE BIREN RATE (IPER TNOUS)       50.6        49.8      47.0             4L.6                 40.4
CRUDE DEATR RATE (FER TWOS)         27.8        21.7      14.7             10.4                 11.5
GROSS REimODUCTIOS RATE              3.5         3.5       3.2              3.1                  2.5
FAMTLT PLANKING
ACCEPTURS. ANWAL (T..                                      . )
USERS (n OF BABLED WONEX)           ..          --        ..               ..                 22.2
POOr n-  WU12T101
EIDE  or F00 PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         ..       100.0      95.0 id          42.0                 97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQULR_ 5TS)          --         -         ''            123.9                110.l
PR INS (GRiS PE1 DAY)               ..          ..        ..             79.7                 70.1
OF HICH ANDIAL AIID PLSE          ..          ..        ..             22.9                 17.6
CHID (AGES 1-4) DEAT! RATE          51.8       35.9       21.1             12.5                 14.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (WARS)        38.5       43.0       51.8             58.7                 57.5
)-F-T WRT. RATE (FER TmOUS)        193.3       158.3     122.5             93.1                I01,S
ACCESS T0 SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOrAL                                ..         ..      32.0 /a          84.6                 59.7
URANM                               ..          ..     100.0 re          98.2                 84.5
RRAL                                ..          ..      28.0 r           71.1                 38.4
ACCESS TO EK RETA DISPOSAL
(I ow POPUATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      12. /f           493 
13381                               ..       100.0     100.0 /T          93.6
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0 4f 41.5
POPULATTON PER PIII!SCIAX        31180.0 /b  8650.0    1900.0            1353.0               4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..     9120.0      500.0            812.5               1831.1
POP. IR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2830.0 h       ..     650.0 1          S72.8                632.9
RImAN                               ..          ..     150.0/l          542.2                545.5
RumAL                               ..          ..    1260.0 rf            *-               2513.5
ADZESSIONS PMR HOSPITAL Z             ..          ..      52.4 /d          28.7                216.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOtSEHOLD
TOrAL
TOA                                  ..         ..        .                 ..
URBAL                                ..         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                                ..         ..        ..               ..                    .
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (101 VF!ELLNCS)
TOTAL                                .                                      .                 46 2
B                                    ,,         ..        ..               ..77,7
RURAL                                ..         ..        ..                .164.1



-20 -                                          ANNX I
(Page 2 of 5)
TASLE 3A
QW              - 90SCIAL Z1111%    XT *
ST                  CpO T UCST UTUA) lb
M IUCU       OCRINO               a          LNC IIID2
i1s9L     197G&      IuTINALd       OIL                  I-SU  DIDL
197OLb    SM U    CIL fPOB?ZES      W. AFRICA A KID PAT!
ADJUSTSD EINOLLtUMT RATION
PIEMIT  TOTAL                        ..         3.0      74.0              U3.6                 *5.3
KALE                       .9. 6.0             90.0              3.2                102.3
FUALE                      ..        1.0       57.0             74.2                 73.0
SCDAYTI  OTAL                        ..          ..      220                .53* 430
MALE                      ..           .       30.0             50.4                 30.3
FULWLE                     ..         ..       13.0             37.1                 33.0
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECODhUA)             ..       24.7 Il    1.6               2.4                  10.3
PUPIL-TEuaR RTIO
PIAY                                 ..        1.0       27.0             16.5                  30.3
SECOUDARS                            ..          ..      14.0              12.3                 23.1
ADULT LITIRAC RTZ (                    ..        20.0 Il     ..              33.9                 43.5
PASSEUE CARS/THOUSAD PP                ..        4.0        a.7 a      U     2.4                  17.0
RADIO RECRIERS/THOURIAD POP            ..          ..        ..            240.5                 13.
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..       2.9 I          200.4                  40.1
NEWSPAPER (CAILY ORNIAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
FER THOUSAND POPULATION              ..          ..        ..              34.5                 31.2
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDMICECAPITA          ..          ..       1.1 I.           4.6                   1.7
LAMOR PORM
TOTAL LAORI FORCE (tDOW)              ..      177.0      275.0
PEKL  (PUCENT)                       ..          ..        ..              5.0                  lO.;
AGhCULTULE (PERCIT)                  ..          ..        ..             A4.6                  .2.4
MUSTRY (PERCET)                      ..         ..         ..             19.6                 27.9
PAATICIPATIOR RATE (PIRCNT)
TOTAL                                ..        27.1      25.5             27.7                  26.2
MALE                                 ..          ..        ..             48.1                  46.4
E                                    ..          ..        ..              3.2                   5.6
ECONIC DEPDENE RATIO                   ..        1.7        1.9              1.S                   l.6
rERe DISTRIBUTION
PERcEIa OF PRIVATE INcoNE
RECEIED B
H1T15 5X0 oM OUsEOLs                 ..          ..
HIUZST 200 OW  OuELDS                ..         ..         ..
LOET 201 or UOUSrIOLDS               ..          ..
LOVEST 402? W   USCWOLDS             ..         ..
OVIowm 2amW -R
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCIM
LEVEL (U1S PER CAPITA)
URA                                  ..         ..         ..               ..                 274.8
RIUAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..                 177.2
STnuAD RUUSIVe POVER! INCOKZ
LEVEL (uSS PER CAPITA)
rA                                   ..          ..        ..                ..                402.6
MURL                                 ..          ..        ..               ..                 284.9
ESTMAD POP. BELOW AISOLU
POERM  INC     VEL CZ)
UDA                                  ..          ..        .                 ..
RURA                                 ..          ..        .                 ..
..wr AvhIAL
l1 0 T I S
IA  Tb goap avrae for ach indicator ame populatioel.gbhted arttltmtie man.  Coverage of coutriersm o   the
-   indicators depends on avab2.y of data aud to not uniform.
lb  Unleth     otherd. -otd, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 ad 1961; 'Date for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for  eoet Recent Retiat" between 1980 end 1982.
Ic  Offial figwure, Us aitimt. lo 212.5 thoueand Sq4.; Id 1977; 1a 1976; If 1975; IL 19N79; lb 1962; Ii 1972; /J.
1978.
,   1964



-21-                                                                            ANNE I
(Page 3 of 5)
obssti  4ieb.a  13 t   ali S. ereItt- itm  etili.t.atl  ttn  at t.tha.tiain 5   rauta It.S   M.Id ala. bassld h   lb"t tS                             sam  3. i.aan.laii
aiwarabi. bias   t.5S   iab 1 .e.adta    alta             S   ee    adi   tlai    mmt.i to lil                     itt  "ii.  r  aet. lve  -astel. n.Ihud   S.
dAtr"e   II ado" .3 wa.s.I..  5iatioi@5.  iSel~  R  Ali.aaitptta refet. sine d1Il          pria.. &it  QuttroiS.
TIOattn..Pep  gtsqla ii(   l. eipiupat  oft""  iaft"    C@9 Sblv3st aOtse     a6 M  taplenty on"p veil on""la  higher .a.rev  temle 4tt. t3. lettr, afwe   itEl
tales Iatte, Seapta  I..  iSgb te....I Ii  *sp.re.r  aitap ifta    gadigg. tgeam,  itet, ltie  aud RIMS1. ot'a sta. ..w l.age..  .1 emma.. .eaell..Itent
.lIiima.l.a. 5.  astpern-a me  daft.t arefti           rAres.. kin   utealile    teld "Selesaru    am  tar -..e   353.5....4  ano  alptt   eIaoh   lie,alde a 9te.Ool a an I" C
trap km date I... ttti 55l1e.Eati  ii.a  lb. a.nrs   .1 a..atiIs sell   3RhitE.               dupadi iae It.eieblly       dates W    as  .eitae  smetle-  Saa
aer.aea.SA I. raeiti.g ..tragsi  -  15Ilip,a.t eat"L..  W."nn              tarq    piti a'? .at% I. -spri"'%       nn.t  lb.        lstaru  a  ie. g"agu.t  1.b  npeit,pea
airiiji  psStr., sat    a" c.i.ae  gid... te W. It. fiIla-  11S.                         'eraS rea  tiltarts.
sint .5U lit, ..P.ttaa    ai;j tt .r..                                                                                                   . 0             Pwtiaa   teii
.,WWL.".,V!dmi~.Iuh =.1W.                 If SeRZ1.3 be.t
q%m ws?t.tt,l   - at  Wa  -sPils a-fl-?.a si  a'e.t -st.C prIm.,                                    tielfI*   i  alse, a  prttat  pisrel AM tPt.t1e-    -petali ae
IRIAty  at.p eai.aia   nibi Al Std bib  Alain  9ia-i, ba.il                                  t.ttbttttlmle  ia.trlt.  Wei.!.a. sttbSolabatrt. p.asaaaIpek satSr
men. Sep.. a  isal re eaP"t .                                                            adtfm e.".         R-  lemeain.t [v snla.DP. Phaa.tdt   rratlkVtIr RAStitu
%6  Mj     O"                  P.1-Spee. -..-I 1-   W1 Apd-.                                ~~~~~~-- "tee at I. alad".d. bt MeplIta.1 .1     .,   isled e.-tlti1 ad -
IRiAdt.li%,S.viitT sttv  . sttepmrl, ii. tairi  Pa ., grea, ails..                               Velne.  nra.  mIt., a..)abf               adltar *s41 -pa-tatmit
asft  Atin..I d.! tcm.ittS .           e    t.1.i.li   arratall.p-nt15                                              rt - St adl   eel( faiai. de ke .               OU1
EM. as StisS diet                                                     SisIin.a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pe -FtflflSM   lba.) ab .3 uLed.. tndlttr.
1460, ittaI3.rlstltaja   vlbter  t  di
lk.7D -      atstaaat. o. atd  -q tateR   mp-. cierbt s til   ap.-i..it
pR#L1p4.Ie9_ b        ired n  -, ai~taai tasteibml rlo,- statitosI                                      t.    bait..10 A-liga          -   sy e-, 3. iiad-   I.
.r:    :i:r.. p. I - Cm.  raplsmatl t    e,"p                                                                   .t--          z,r L-z._. P,.,q,tar
P             *...~~~    ~      ~~   .... .~~ni..t  W. ...          i.t.I                                    -   .t .aat.lde.  e  .t-  ,tthaalp i pra.               rari ami         ts
Pe Mj.itlt.  rada.PrIsrtt r"'        a.  part  it- aura
.ataeia    -rY.ild              t  trId  Itt peqtt.paem..dttiltS ha
a.  afe  etle- an saa-suela                                      n      r a.. al   -a  ae -.tat  it.  at  5t-Ir
aattleiae  raraliti   ala....  tilatada.it.        alit  tra  paa. ar  bt.       -  Sa   i    .irAl atteal    .  ep 9
etra..ir-i AL     an--..Iptia   Sant  ta-  .newie,aal    Ita   an. 1-C.tat-  tin-.; ..nadarp
ifIda.iS .tarstaeldrill.  ii  p.lli..r ita: a.I trptr.a1.i  I...                      it.riihiAgreeSii.s ti,  a                             rraat  lstr.l
L- aatiii.t t                W  .te.                    teIA - Sc3Rrarat                 nld.al  .aa.eat.-1-   ialeii--a.t.  t..W
Iet. tatttelt  InIitS.  it-                                                                    utnrtlli t.eliie.R
.iri.3                                   P.-IiaarI'rae.R_                h.                  larIat. taibir.;.  iid.ertt  -1. attt  r .r        ai.t a -ia
itt itpatli  iiaa  I...Ilitara..-. ai rare etAalSS tr.a.w.     I                             I.d .iSi-   - d.esta    t.iaa.i-l.la
.aet.id~  liSt.'ata.,Sii.t.atlt-t ratiat- trlatr.1a  :e.daai - C-t.! ..d.i aialdI
9-alalln b..Str                                                     rtlan'e tat aatttdaep l.aat. *3.345 be a-bra af tattler.  a ii.
Wcp...et.ardh    a    ssr                    .e.iti   .31          Iel-at,               ..ns Cat a. ti.ttai.eaca      t-ae.lc~ ata
pepltiai - ili.3St   5ledaa                                                                 a%aitg            l     . let -ri-S  .artga  sei.aaeaa  Sai..,  ae
Ve.r i4ptt.ia  B.- tAl-I-. Itite               -1-it. a..  tn-a2.-ee-k m..ear   Raeebaa  raIala   -t la  .n- A  r                                               1.can.ta   a
uiralttun  tar iain-t-i. eat-St.  rttI-tlt..faailn.  ftd                                             R  aran. I   -ar.   5     aa.  -tat. rep-ltteaae  atids
CrdaHri 'c  liarB; 1inaatwd       aa   S.bu.rriaagi   I                                         n at   etlattti;dii  a   iaeaaa-    ,5 la.                         Ir   a
fate papaSatS-aiS  Sec.. e            "I, at es a ea--                              eaa   -ia   .ltiitf- eia.tataC.
Ft..l    is.ItS  .5-; tlda.ta-ri  p.311  -   Staa   ppi                                                                 -i~tIls.  ..lil.ad Ts rnaaar
Cr... iend.aaiaa tae - baaaga anar it aa4hra. Ia.  til .     ar I.                   I.etr..0   a         I---~a   en  enl.rai- .a FI.r  a.v   i,at  i
Si ia-   raradeii..  antS  i  act aetrla ea-itti   ata-araapeiiaaiCtalts(a   laaa    a. l.  - 1A-as  iSsas
in,                       Caioar. dlei.t.ai pi.tl i   rtidi                                                                                  taat  a.19..  I . iera.adan
3aai . tla.iSa - tar. ist-se afaarrit sait'S   -. rreeai  at. nrit                  tabs Iaaa.l
alas .3 ecild-tasrsat ~~~~~~~~~~i. eta ta. prieaaqa ~ ~ ~       ~          -16-An-,sRt.ed tatbada an-d--
Irae -tt -   rm  r et irra a. t . eW   t.tea   a-&I,          at~e                 JCarti tt I. -                  :M ls                e         b        ,A
. .....  l4_   l-a.                                           p      ieitt.a   i  et..tttifa.ina
Itia   t-.tt ea  rtl   Sat  -r C 1.et ldt-R.t laIPilS -  sat   we ali
__ _ _ _ _ __b t _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ __1                                                                       ie a   a a   a  r i a i e   t t  i    s. r   f arr.
i.aal pidarainat .55  ind nmiitr Saa  trtSaetta  ttii.5s   tdstti        ia  tateff 3.  .-i-e liaifatt.t.
tistreIIIa   il.t.a  ataae   fIta.clI   a   ctc   tiaaSw.tdaa tie..'l  2.0b.a- lai. i   te                                                     .i.(r.e iatre   a
ett.idrtitaigd.lerut   rdel.i"r   iatrI                                                     Sarcr          i        a    raaaig p9it.             irari;tn.fS
titer. Act   .-palea   .a- b.itapia   nt-1 tli  rd%n-.                                     ael -Ierlja-dtIt itirsr  aa  tS          be pi.aia.0 a   rett tI.ett.
,a.i!a  idi eaa  reP.- ia. a  in..  . it .l.ri.rtntt         .II----rilni   e  fri aa uis  tra.
aa.ttaara  asl.trd p  ritibaae   !A- .baaati dP9,trt                                  ealear.a     it  - Eeet.  aresllt  iari   t                              n 
P               ielsalc1 ad baliam etatidautit~~~~~R.   aIr.ina iR f.este.  be    ea..ea"lg   apptat.lt-itd9t
pae  d   -A  iltebai  .9  a.alni.a.salae               It  eei  tar :IC--I.aaeR_
hIiA tcarld  snai S.I.;i-ti.  i    ..-  Ia... itt .                                       ts    ii -al'i. rS             I  p 1
rareatitatani -Ca.-aItis-  te     - 9 ra.eI. -sin  Ipl,   tine,                               RtA--aai  s- rats  l.-,a   sI.a Im, ttb   iih          .dl    bn..db   tb
-    ILa    A-- -.9 4-ad ia   ts .a aaaZttr 1  aSi satiate  - ai.a..      5                    pee.tt. faat  t peraa  ra..ntt Si rar... S           5 r..r-atit ea..a
.la   erta.atie.      S   e      bi   niia   rti.  ibs..-trr   s tittl
at sa  e.fti. a1:       -aeaaleataid   rni   tftitt,a.- -hatniaad   ib-sa.dirtlacitS-a
455a.                                                                             a~~~~~~~eitd-e.bvria.ee
ibii  at- tl las it.  a.rii..agl- it-' 4-alt. Rat ib..aa  itttatdrlt.  anrtta                                           a!'i   a  utl-st-tdma
it.  ean   i titi.li ~i Iea.  . itm  . a   dan  I..e  a  d.aaatsbi    Ie.taralr                                        aiI   ttlti   er.p.lr
etatts   ia  eiadea  tie,rain   ta.le          Ssdiidt                                     at.   iei   i  eaae    r.ti   .dtatIat aa
44 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~iat   il   dean  a  tg.s a,a  ltI.i a                                     re.



-22-
ANNEX I
(Page 4 of 5)
OMAN - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (percent constant prices)
USS Millions   Percent                     1979-81                        1981-83
GNP at market prices              6,968.5      100.0                      16.3                           -i4.2
Gross domestic investmenc         2,142.9       30.8                      24.2                           -12.0
Gross national savings            2,055.6       29.5                      41.8                          -36.8
Current account balance             -88.6       -1.3                     132.9                            23.2
Exports of goods, NFS             4,253.9       61.0                      41.4 1/                         -2.6 1/
Imports of goods, NFS             3,374.1       48.4                      38.4                            8.5
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983  2/
Value Added
USt millions       Percent
Agriculture                  233           3.0
Industry                    4804          61.0
Services                    _837          36.0
Total/Average             7874         100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE
RO Killions         Percent of CDP
1983            1983   1981-83
Current receipts              1489             54.3    56.5
Current expenditures           971             35.4    31.4
Surplus/Deficit (-)            518             18.9    22.8
Investment                     576             21.0    19.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 Millions of Rials Omani outstanding at end period
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982      1983
Money supply                            114.3    123.1    154.1    212.7    240.5    266.8
Bank credit to public sector             69.9      4.2       3.2      0.6     42.2      31.3
Bank credit to private sector           198.4    222.6    283.2    334.8    377.2    468.9
Percentage of Index Numbers
Money as percent of GDP                  11.9      9.5       7.5      8.5      9.2       9.8
GDP deflator (1978&100)                 100.0    129.5    186.5    187.2    170.7        ..
Annual percentage change in:
GDP deflator                                      29.5     44.0       0.4     -88        ...
Bank credit to public sector              8.5    -94.0    -23.8    -81.3   6933.3    -25.8
Bank credit to private sector            18.7     12.2     27.2      18.2     12.7      24.3
1/ Capacity to import.
2I Data on employment are unavailable.
November 1984



-= -
ALEEK I
_PaUe! :f S)
U.N - Swmc   D Smicai
orA~ 07 FA1'UUUS                                                                  ngoXali9      SB  (2981-63 A1331W
Niic. of aS Dollas
_  197S     19            1962        1sZ                     gos Silloms        rcnc
of wgooS. WS      U      9     O          3748          4823        4254          Oil      X       .1          99.
Dacts of goods. mm                    33          2200          379         3374          Total          4.2          100.0
_   sse  GeVp (deficit-)                 263         Li"            98          SW
Pat factor income                    -320         -109            55        -176
met transfr.                          -2-325                    -632        -793
c   .mt bal-                            9         111-           315 
(deficit--)
Craas to _onera_nt                      20         l2             4Z        L47
_o=meazy capital                        17          S0           IL9         5S0
Net error and                         -79         -363           290           a
Ove0-ll balanc  (deficit-)            -211         933          8a6          606
woes resezve  (end yew)                s0          318          3579        6t16
PWrolem impocts                       96          237           280          A
ZaL  IUUL1C D rI   . D M  31. 1983                 BIIDD& LOD. BEC. 31. 1983                  DIMT SvCL RAM FM5 1983
sw5 illou                                             Mi lllions                             Percent
Disbered only           1.125                                          D      D               Pablic Deb3
Ic;lninag  _isburse     1.680                     Outstanding A"
disbursed        17.4 --
ndaijbabzed         35.   ...
u_taau4j inel-
usibabrs.d       52.8 ..
1186 ~  ~        ~       ~       *Sesd            S_    _
I.         38



- 24 -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
A. OAN - STATEENT OF BiYl( LOANS!
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan    Fiscal
Number   Year    Borrower       Purpose               Bank         Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                            9.4              -
1441     1977    Sultanate      Highways
of Oman       N&intxnance           L5.0               2.5
1884     1981    General        Telecommunicat-.ons   22.0              9.8
Telecommu-
nication
Organisation
2084     1982    Sultanate      Highways
of Oman       Maintenance II        15.0             11.8
2419     1984    Sultanam..e    Education II
of Oma.                             15.0              15.0
Total                                       76.4              39.1
of which has been repaid                  10.4
Total now outstanding                       66.0
Amount sold                    0.3
of which has been iapaid    0.3
Total now held by Bank                      66.0
Total undisbursed                                             39.1
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on At- A 30 and
October 31.



-25 -
ANM  II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. OMlA  - STI7ZMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
-Amount in US1$ million-
Year          Oaligor           Type of Business    toan    Equity       Total
1979   Oma Development Bank         Development
Fizaace        -         2.0        2.0
Total gross commituents                       -         2.0        2.0
less cancellatios, terminations,
repayennts and sales                              -         _
Total commitments now held by IFC             -         2.0        2.0
Total undisbursed



- 26 -
UI Ex III
OMAN - SECOND TELECOIIICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMEARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project: 9 months. from October
1983 to June 1984
(b) Agency which prepared project                 : General Teleco.munication
Organisation
(c) Project first presented to Bank               : October 1983
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission                : July 198b
(e) Completion of negotiations                    : December 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                 : May 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.  Conditions of Effectiveness:
Issuance by GTO of invitations to bid for equipment to be financed
under the Bank loan (para. 41).
2. Measures to be Undertaken by the Government and G10 include:
(a)   Government to make available to GTM a loan of $47.9 million on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 39).
(b) GTO will employ, no later than December 31, 1985. internationally
recruited experts with qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to assist GTO in the areas of a tariff
studv= estbhlishment of an economic studies unit, accounts
computerization and the development of training courses (para- 44).
(c) GTM will decrease the level of subscriber accounts receivable to not
more than 60 days billing by December 31, 1987, and the Government
will likewise cause its agencies to pay bills issued to them by GTO
within 60 days of the billing dates by December 31, 1987 (para. 49).
(d) GTO will maintain its tariff at levels that would assure an annual
rate of return of at least 10 percent in 1985 and 1986, 11 percent
in 1987, 12 percent in 1988 and 13 percent thereafter on average
current net value of its fixed assets in operation (para. 50).



52         5'           IOiWObrA *%              GMIC REPUBliC
;  -_OMAN                            OFIRAN
G4,,1
-26\                                                                                         24-
N        UNITED ARAB             E   \       
EM\IRAES            /          
-24'                                          22'
SAUDI
ARABIA
/ f ~OMAN
j   /                   M^~~~~~~~~LSPAH             -24'
-22                                                                                          2C'-
PEOPLES     '\DEM----18.                                                                          -
REP. OF YEMEN                                                    0 5   100 150 200
_ -KIINERS
52     X-                        56.              58                               62
18-
\h mr     -___                                                           -22
PEOPLES DEM. REP'
OMAN
OF YEMEN
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _e .  .
0     30    60    90   120   1__
KILOMETERS                    ___  X
52'                                      56'                                       56'___



IBRD 18623
GENERAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION
TELECOMMUNICAIONS NEWRK                              26
EXISTING    PROPOSED
A      EXCHANGES
-                  COAXIAL CABLES (4 TBE)
OMAN                     - - - -               CO-AXAL CABLES (SINGLE TUBE)
i'..-OMN                    -- ' *   MICROWAVE
-- e-UHF / \I4F
q            ?      SATELLSTE SrTAONS
/ } - ~Khotmo? MalahIa
KhC;Ttt M161                    - - -          INTERNIONAL BCUNDARIES
UNffED                    S
ARAB        (
EMIRATES
S uraim,          ,Shr
t_  * * ~ ' ~5i Sohom                   C
24d
I             VALA_VanQuIe
Dank                                            WVrQ  PstaQ
-~l                                 MUS,JT
;      lL        ~~~~~~lroc)l  Rustc        ji
!           IDn t*_       ,3~~t*AhLC  /t
Al SSAD                                                         Al
\                                                   Al M,r,?1D        Al Mudawo
Al MuCCdo- 
5                                        t            g4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Kamil :822
SAUDI                                                             Al Mv'S'.I m lfi
ARABIA                                                                                          'A
Smn Bu 4Cssor.
B9onr Bu Al,
/                                 ~~~~~~~OMAN
/                                    0     30    60    90    120   150
KILOMETERS
__ ~I 
AD-
DECEMBER 1984



