Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19373-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.2 MILLION
(US$ 16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
June 4, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1999)
Currency Unit = Lari
LC = US$0.5
US$1.00 = Lari2.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CD                  Customs Department
CSB                 Civil Service Bureau
ESAC                Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
EU                  European Union
GNERC               Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission
HRF                 Hospital Restructuring Fund
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
MoC                 Ministry of Communications
MoE                 Ministry of Economy
MoEF                Ministry of Energy and Fuel
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
MoH                 Ministry of Health
MoJ                 Ministry of Justice
MoSSLE              Ministry of Social Security, Labor and Employment
MoSPM               Ministry of State Property Management
NBG                 National Bank of Georgia
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PSR                 Public Sector Reform
SAC II              Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC III             Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC II            Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SDS                 State Department of Statistics
SHF                 State Health Fund
SMIC                State Medical Insurance Company
SPC                 State Pension Fund
SRS                 Structural Reform Support Credit
THMP                Tbilisi Hospital Master Plan
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
WHO                 World Health Organization
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leaders:   Ataman Aksoy, ECSPE; Annette Dixon, ECSHD
Team Leaders:   Cyril Muller, ECC03; Laura Rose, ECSHD



Georgia
Structural Reform Support Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...........................................................                                                                             2
1 . Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................... 2
B. Strategic Context ...........................................................                                                                                        3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .................................................... 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................................... 3
C. Project Description Summary ...........................................................                                                                              5
1. Project components ...........................................................                                                                                       5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................6
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................                                                                           6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................................................... 7
D. Project Rationale ...........................................................                                                                                        8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............ 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ....................................... 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................. 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ....................................................... 12
E. Summary Project Analyses ...........................................................                                                                               12
1. Economic  ........................................................... 12
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                                              13
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                                                              13
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                                                          13
5. Social ...........................................................                                                                                                 13
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                                                               14
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................                                                                                 14
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................................................                                                                               15
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                                                         15
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                                                                         15



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                16
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................                            16
2. Other ........................ 16
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................... 17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                      17
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis Summary
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.  Capacity of Implementing Agencies
Annex 7. Financial Management
Annex 8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9. Documents in Project File
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11. Country at a Glance
Attachment 1: Government Statement of Intent on Hospital Restructuring
Attachment 2: Tbilisi Hospitals to Remain in the Public Sector
Attachment 3: Tbilisi Hospital Master Plan



Project Appraisal Document
Georgia Structural Reform Support Project
Georgia
Structural Reform Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: June 4, 1999                                  Team Leaders: Cyril Muller, ECC03; Laura Rose, ECSHD
Country Director: Judy O'Connor, ECC03              Sector Leaders: Ataman Aksoy, ECSPE,
Annette Dixon, ECSHD
Project ID: GEPE-52154  Sector: Health, Institutional  Program Objective Category: EA
Lending Instrument: SIL/TAL                         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan      [X] Credit       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): SDR 12.2 million / USD$16.5 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                        [X] Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                  $3.3 m                               $3.3 m
Cofinanciers
IDA                                                         $3.0 m             $13.5 m          $16.5 m
Total          $6.3 m            $13.5 m          $19.8 m
Borrower: Government of Georgia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Office of the President, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of
Justice, Ministry of State Property Management, Ministry of Energy and Fuel, Georgia National Electricity Regulatory
Commission, National Bank of Georgia, Ministry of Social Security, Labor and Employment, State Pension Fund.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):            2000       2001       2002
Annual                 4.8         6.7        5.0
Cumulative                 4.8       11.5       16.5
Project implementation period: 2.5 years    Expected effectiveness date: 09/99    Expected closing date: March 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the proposed credit would be to accelerate the change in the respective functions of the
public and private sectors in delivering key services in Georgia. Changing functions is a necessity due to
the severe public revenue constraints and failure of the public sector to cover such basic needs as
electricity supply and health care. The project components would aim to improve economic efficiency
and social equity through technical assistance in private sector development, public sector reform/public
information, and social sustainability, along with implementation of a hospital restructuring program.
The program provides support to the key reform measures included in the proposed Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC 3) and Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC). The project's main
components include:
Hospital Restructuring: This first component has two primary objectives: (i) to improve the efficiency of
the health care system by reducing the number of hospitals and personnel in the city of Tbilisi; and (ii)to
ensure the quality and financial sustainability of the hospitals that remain in the public sector. To this
effect, the component will support the establishment of a revolving hospital restructuring fund, whereby
the proceeds from the sale of excess hospitals will be reinvested in the public sector health system. In
addition, new governance, organization, and management structures will be introduced in the public
sector, and steps will be taken to improve the risk pooling of the large portion of out-of-pocket spending
prevalent in the country today.
Private Sector Development and Financial Sector: The component will address three of the critical
challenges facing the privatization program and the banking sector. It will: (i) support the open,
competitive and strategic privatization of a few large infrastructure enterprises through the financing of
financial, legal and technical advisory services; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the energy and
infrastructure regulatory institutions to enable strong private sector participation; and (iii) strengthen the
supervision department and monetary policy capacity of the National Bank of Georgia (NBG).
Public Sector Reform/Public Information:  The objectives of this component are to: (i) assist the
Government in strengthening budget management and begin developing a medium-term expenditure
framework process, and to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Finance; (ii)support the
implementation of public procurement reforms; (iii) improve the licensing regime to make it less
discretionary and more transparent; and (iv) support the program of public information and public
relations on economic reforms, with an aim to broaden its coverage, improve coordination of Government
information services, and begin reaching out to the regions of Georgia.
Social Sustainability. The proposed component, which supports the establishment of a credible and
affordable safety net, has three main objectives: (i) to establish a continuous information and monitoring
system that can track and report on the social impact of economic developments and support existing
efforts to confirm eligibility and access to social assistance programs; (ii) to study the feasibility and
desirability of workfare as a means to target assistance to the poor, including the design and pilot testing
of such a scheme; and (iii) to assist the Government in developing a pension reform strategy and to build
institutional, technical, and human resources capacity for its successful implementation.
The success of the project will be assessed on the extent to which the following key performance
indicators are achieved:
(a) Decrease in number of public medical facilities and in their staffing (facilities sold as real estate,
restructured hospitals), changed composition of remaining hospital staff, shorter average length of
stay in hospitals, fewer hospital infections and decrease in the prevalence of informal payments for
hospital services in Tbilisi.



Page 3
(b) Increased strategic investment in Georgia, including privatization of telecommunication companies
and private operation of Poti port, with necessary laws and regulations in place in time to attract
foreign strategic investors, and the establishment of regulatory capacity. Fewer banks in Georgia,
with those banks that remain having stronger balance sheets and institutional capacities, and with
NBG capacity to manage bank failure strengthened.
(c) Improvements in budget management leading to a reduction in arrears and actual execution of the
planned budget. Improved capacity of the Ministry of Finance to formulate a realistic and
consultatively prepared budget, and to more effectively monitor budgetary expenditures.
Implementation of the reformed procurement regime in central and local governments, with the
independent Department for Public Procurement in the Ministry of Economy fully operational and
fulfilling its functions. Satisfactory implementation ofthe new Law on Licensing, with decreasing
number of licensing abuse complaints. Improved coordination and quality of information across
government agencies, with the Information Center transferred to the President's Office and effective
in coordinating with other Press Offices.
(d) Improved lists of social assistance recipients, with those ineligible removed from the lists, thus
improving targeting. Feasibility of using workfare as a means to reach the poor satisfactorily
assessed; and a pilot workfare scheme designed and evaluated for suitability in the Georgia context.
Pension reform strategy formulated, and capacity to manage and model the public pension fund built.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17000-GE    Date of latest CAS discussion: October 21, 1997
The Bank Group's strategy in Georgia for the period 1998-2000 supports the Government's development
agenda with the following four themes: (i) strengthening public finance; (ii) deepening and diversifying
sources of growth; (iii) protecting the environment, and (iv) reducing poverty. Three of the four CAS
objectives are being addressed under the proposed project: The Hospital Restructuring and Social
Sustainability components aim to reduce poverty and widen access to social services. The Private Sector
Development and Financial Sector component will seek to deepen and diversify the sources of economic
growth through supporting privatization of a few large, strategic, enterprises, as well as through assistance
with strengthening the regulatory capacity of utilities/infrastructure in areas with key private sector
participation, and through assistance in banking sector supervision and, where necessary, liquidation. The
Public Sector Reform/Public Information component supports the CAS objective of strengthening public
finance. Assistance will be provided in strengthening the government's public expenditure management
performance, and in supporting key elements of the Government's anti-corruption strategy, including by
supporting the Ministry of Economy's implementation of the new public procurement reform and
strengthening of the Public Procurement Department, and assisting the Ministry of Justice in monitoring
and supervision of a simplified and more transparent licensing regime.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues and Government strategy are discussed extensively in the President's reports for
the-proposed Third Structural Adjustrnent Credit and Energy Sector Adjustment Credit. The following
are the key strategic issues common to these operations and the proposed SRS credit:



Page 4
Hospital Restructuring:
* Limited public financing for health care dictates that the Government use its resources as efficiently as
possible, which they have tried to do by targeting public spending on a basic benefit package
(including essential public health programs) and health services for the poor. Over time, however, the
scope of services has increased while the proportion of the planned budget which is actually executed
has decreased, leaving the sector in a perpetual financial crisis.
* Government could improve the efficiency of public spending through consolidation of health facilities
and reduction of staff, but efforts to do so have failed, probably due to the fact that with only 13% of
the spending, the Government is not a very big player in the system.
* The Poverty Assessment showed that the poor are particularly vulnerable to a deterioration of their
health status. Risk pooling is non-existent, but a necessary step to improve access to health services
for the poor.
Private Sector Development and Financial Sector:
* The privatization program has been limited to-date to small- and medium-sized enterprises. Only a
few large enterprises such as Telasi and Chiaturia Manganese have actually been privatized.
* Infrastructure privatization requires the establishment of enabling regulatory framework.
* Partly as a result of the Russia crisis, consolidation of the banking sector has accelerated and the
NBG's supervisory capacities have been stretched.
Public Sector Reform/Public Information:
* Public expenditure management remains weak with large discrepancies between planned and
executed budgets which leads to arrears and expenditure shortfalls in core social expenditures.
* Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Finance has been proceeding for the last several months
and has strong ownership.
* Among the key elements of the anti-corruption action agenda, public procurement reform and the de-
licensing measures are most advanced.
* Information on economic reforms is more widely available, but coordination of Government
information flows and the outreach to the provinces remain weak.
Social Sustainability
* Poverty is wide-spread and severe. Scarce fiscal resources limit the extent and efficiency of public
financing of the social safety net.
* The bulk of the poor are able to work and difficult to target, and there is need to rely on self selection
mechanisms to identify the vulnerable.
* The public pension system is near collapse despite extremely low benefits and a high retirement age.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                         Category    Cost Incl.      % of       Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total      financing  Bank-
(US$M)                    (US$M)   financing
A. Hospital Restructuring         Civil Works,        10.0       51%       7.4        45%
Al. Hospital Consolidation        Goods, TA,
A2. Hospital Operations Improvement  Training,
A3. Component Management          and
Incremental
Operating
Costs
B. Private Sector Development and    TA,Training,      4.5       23%       4.3         26%
Financial Sector                     Goods
B 1. Strategic Privatization of Large-
Scale Enterprises
B2. Development of Regulatory
Capacity
B3. Financial Sector Strengthening
C. Public Sector Reform/Public    TA,                  2.7       13%       2.4         15%
Sector Management                 Training,
Cl. Public Expenditure Management    Goods
C2. Public Procurement
C3. Licensing
C4. Public Information
D. Social Sustainability          TA, Training         2.5       12%       2.2         13%
Dl. Poverty Monitoring and Targeting  Goods
D2. Workfare Schemes
D3. Support for Pension Reform
E. Project Management Costs                            0.2        1%       0.2         1%
(components B-D)                                                        I          I
Total              19.8      100%       16.5       100%



Page 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will provide assistance in the implementation of Georgia's economic reform program, which
is supported under the proposed SAC 3 and ESAC. Specific measures include:
*  Satisfactory Implementation of Hospital Restructuring Plan (SAC 3)
*  Strengthened Public Expenditure Management including institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Finance (SAC 3)
*  Adequate and timely expenditures for the social sectors: health, education, and social protection
(SAC3 and ESAC)
*  Satisfactory Implementation of the Privatization Strategy for Telecom and Poti Port (SAC 3)
*  Strong regulatory capacity in electricity sector, including market rules and tariff setting (ESAC)
* New and transparent public procurement and licensing regimes under satisfactory implementation
(SAC 3)
*  Strengthened social safety net and improved targeting (ESAC and SAC 3)
From an institutional perspective, the project faces the challenge of strengthening a large number of
institutions involved in the reform program. Components under SRS will address capacity building needs
of the Ministry of State Property Management, the Georgia National Electricity Regulatory Committee,
the National Bank of Georgia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice,
the Public Information Center; the Ministry of Social Security, Labor and Employment, and the Pension
Fund. The same program set-up as under SATAC 2, which has been successful in providing assistance to
a large number of agencies, will be maintained, i.e., all assistance has been discussed and agreed at the
sectoral and Government-wide levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
The three main benefits of the proposed project are: (a) alleviation of fiscal pressures through generation
of privatization proceeds and more efficient use of public resources; (b) a stronger infrastructure and large
enterprise sector through strategic investment in sectors that are critical to sustain long-term growth
(telecommunications, transport, energy); and (c) poverty reduction through improved financial access to
health facilities in Tbilisi and better targeted social programs.
Most of the activities financed by the credit provide benefits to the entire population. Everyone will
benefit from improved health care services, establishment of a well-functioning pension system, improved
infrastructure resulting from large-scale investment in telecommunications, energy and transport, and
more efficient resource allocation from a stronger banking sector. Health care workers would benefit
from better working environment, better tools to perform their functions, higher salaries, and increased
funding available to the sector. The socially vulnerable will benefit through better targeting of benefits,
and implementation of workfare schemes, if found feasible, to lessen the effects of wages lost due to
unemployment. The Government and the private sector would benefit through better, more competitive
public procurement processes and reduced opportunities for corruption from the delicensing program.



Page 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutions directly involved in implementing the project will be: (a) the Health ProjectCoordination
Unit (PCU) which will take responsibility for the largest component, Hospital Restructuring; and (b) the
SATAC Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations
(currently managing SATAC II, and two IDF Grants) which will manage the three remaining
components:  Private Sector Development and Financial Sector; Public Sector Reform/Public
Information; and Social Sustainability. The implementation arrangements are designed to make best
possible use of existing institutional resources, build ownership and provide for focused project
implementation.
Implementation Responsibilities:
The Health Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be solely responsible for the implementation of the
Hospital Restructuring component. Established in 1995 to implement the IDA Health Credit, it has a
comparative advantage in procuring medical equipment, hospital civil works, and technical assistance for
health specialists, such as hospital architects and health planners. The main functions of the PCU will be
to: (a) support and oversee all program implementation related to the Hospital Restructuring component,
including quality assurance; (b) produce consolidated management reports to the Bank for the component;
and (c) ensure that Bank guidelines and procedures are followed.
The SATAC PIU was established by a Presidential decree in 1994 and has successfully implemented the
IBC (closed June 1998), SATAC I (closed December 1998), and the ongoing SATAC II, and IDF Grants
for Public Procurement and the Georgia Investment Center. Although the PIU staff have excellent skills
in the areas of consultant contracting and procurement of goods, they will need to receive some training in
financial management in order to manage this project. The main functions of the PIU would be to: (a)
support and oversee all program implementation related to the three other components includingquality
assurance; (b) produce consolidated management reports to the Bank for the three components; and (c)
ensure that Bank guidelines and procedures are followed.
Project Operational Manual (POM). A POM is being prepared to facilitate the management and
implementation of the project. The POM includes: (i) detailed project objectives and description; (ii) key
implementation issues and strategies; (iii) summary of procedures for monitoring project implementation;
(iv) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications under the Credit; (v) methods of procurement to be
followed as per the Procurement Schedule in the Credit Agreement; (vi) guidelines for the use of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and overall project funds; (vii) procedures for using the Special
Account, including those for replenishment; (viii) sample bidding documents and contracts for national
shopping of civil works; and (ix) financial management. Assurances were received at Negotiations that
the POM would be completed by December 31, 1999 and maintained in aform satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement Mechanisms. The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of two and
one-half years. The disbursement profile of the project has been based on experience gained during the
three previous IDA projects. The project has been designed within the capacity of the Health PCU and
SATAC PIU to execute over a two and one-half year period. The Closing Date will be March 31, 2002.
By project effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system (FMS) will have been put in place.
Disbursements will start using traditional disbursement mechanisms - Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
reimbursements, direct payment, etc. After the PCU and PIU have gained experience with the FMS and
reporting under project management reports (PMRs), and provided that an improved FMS is reviewed
and found satisfactory by the Bank, the project could move to PMR-based disbursements.  All
disbursements against contracts for goods exceeding US$200,000 equivalent, and services and training
for consulting firms valued at $100,000 or more, and for individual consultants valued at $50,000 or
more, will be fully documented. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well
as to the Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the PCU and PIU for at least one year after



Page 8
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and
Borrower counterpart financing will be managed by the PCU and PIU in coordination and consultation
with the Ministry of Finance.
Special Accounts. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts - one for Part A of the Project
being implemented by the Health PCU and one for all other Parts of the Project being implemented by the
SATAC PIU -- in US dollars in a commercial bank(s), acceptable to the Bank. During the early stage of
the project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of both Special Accounts will be limited to
US$400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit (all Parts) have reached $1.5
million equivalent, the initial allocations of both Special Accounts may be increased up to an authorized
allocation of $800,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of
each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be
submitted by the respective PCUs at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Finance, Accounting, and Auditing Arrangements. The Health PCU and the SATAC PIU will each be
responsible for the financial management of the project. The Financial and Accounting Officers in the
PCU and PIU will design a Project and Financial Management Information System (MIS) which will
include, inter alia, an accounting and control module with the capability to record and retrieve, in a timely
manner, all financial transactions under the project. The MIS will comply with internationally accepted
standards, and will: (i) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the
project; (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities. The
accounting module will have a Chart of Accounts, which will reflect the sources of funds; it will be
broken down into different types of expenditures by type and component. Furthermore, it will provide
information on the receipt and use of funds and will be able to produce financial reports comparing
budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of providing financial data
to measure performance when linked tot he outputs of the project. The PCU and PIU will each maintain
consolidated accounts and will ensure appropriate recording of the funds provided. The PCU and PIU
will prepare PMRs on a quarterly basis. These reports will include financial statements, project progress
reports and procurement management reports. The PMR will be in a format discussed during
Negotiations and will follow examples given in the Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook. The
Special Accounts will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing
of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982) and the Financial Accounting Reporting and
Auditing Handbook, 1995. The audit reports will be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, for SOEs against
which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the credit, and SOEs which will be
included in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements. The audited financial statements of
the Special Accounts, and SOEs of the preceding year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements made against certified SOEs, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Split this operation into two credits - a Hospital Restructuring credit, and a stand-alone TA credit.
During project preparation it became clear that programs such as hospital restructuring and strategic
privatization required strong political will and ownership throughout the Government structure. For the
Hospital Restructuring component to succeed, support and cooperation from other ministries (Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of State Property Management, Ministry of Social Security, Labor and Employment)
are essential. Likewise, strategic privatization and strengthening of regulatory authority in sectors suchas
energy, transport, and telecommunications require coordination and agreement between the sector



Page 9
ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the regulatory bodies, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of
State Property Management. By packaging assistance in this manner, it was possible to build ownership
and commitment to the operation both vertically, and horizontally, within Government.
Implementing hospital restructuring in other regions of Georgia: This is a very political and difficult step
and thus it is necessary to proceed in a phased manner. Similar hospital master plans have already been
prepared for the main cities in Georgia and an alternative strategy has been developed for rural areas.
These could proceed once success has been demonstrated in Tbilisi. The project would cover additional
technical assistance to help the regions in this process.
Restructure other types of facilities such as ambulatories, polyclinics, and san-epid stations: The
necessary investment to improve the quality of health care in Georgian hospitals is unaffordable at this
time and according to the IFC, this investment is unlikely to come from outside Georgia. The
rationalization plan not only solves the problem of an excessive delivery system, but also provides needed
funds for these capital investments. Hospitals also consume a larger share of resources and therefore are
better candidates for efficiencies gains. Restructuring polyclinics andarnbulatories is a logical next step
and could be supported by the proposed Health II project.
Leave the support for large scale privatization to other donors: Other donors such as the European Union
and USAID have been very active in preparing the privatization of the telecommunication sector and of
Poti Port. However, the Government would prefer that the Bank takes the lead in assisting with the actual
transactions to avoid possible national preferences in attracting strategic investors. The Bank would
closely coordinate with all donors involved.



Page 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                                   Project                          Latest Supervision  (Form  590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)      Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Technical Assistance (privatization, health sector  SATAC I                             S                  S
reforms, development of capacity to carry out
household surveys).
Technical Assistance (preparation of hospital  SATAC II                                 S                  S
restructuring plan, strategic privatization of
electricity sector, assistance in drafting private
pension law and regulation, assistance to MOF,
Customs and Tax Administration, and poverty
monitoring).
Technical Assistance (accreditation and licensing  Health                               S                  U
of medical schools, health care providers and
health care facilities, consolidation of hospitals in
Zone I in Tbilisi as part of the project).
Public Sector                                  Public Sector Reform (planned)         N/A                 N/A
Public Sector                                  Civil Service IDF                      N/A                 N/A
Public Sector                                  Procurement IDF                        N/A                 N/A
Other development agencies
USAID                                          Hospital partnership to improve        N/A                 N/A
management capacity and quality
of care in a Tbilisi hospital
twinned with a hospital in Atlanta
(completed).
Executive management program           N/A                N/A
at the Center for Continuing
Education and graduate program
in Health Care Administration
(planned).
Japanese  International  Cooperation  Agency  Provision   of  equipment  to           N/A                 N/A
(JICA)                                         hospitals in Tbilisi (planned).
UNICEF                                         Community financing initiatives        N/A                 N/A
(planned).
UK Know How Fund, WHO                          Revolving pharmaceutical scheme        N/A                 N/A
in Kutaisi (ongoing).
UK Department for International Development  Assistance  for  Civil  Service          N/A                 N/A
(DFID)                                         Reform.
Health-Net International                       Management training at district        N/A                 N/A
level (planned).
EU-TACIS                                       Employment  Services  Project          N/A                 N/A
(ongoing).
Privatization program for Poti
Port.                                  N/A                 N/A
USAID                                          Fiscal Reform Project (ongoing).       N/A                 N/A
Assistance to Ministry of Finance.     N/A                 N/A
Assistance to GNERC.                   N/A                 N/A
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 1 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Technical assistance projects have a mixed performance record both within the Bank and the ECA
Region. However, without adequate technical assistance in place, essential policy and institutional
reforms cannot be implemented successfully and are unlikely to be sustainable. Georgia has used well the
four approved technical assistance credits (IBC, SATAC, SATAC 2, Oil IBC). All of them have
disbursed according to expectations, and project components have met their development objectives.
This successful track record may be explained in part by the very close relationship between technical
assistance activities financed under World Bank projects and the Government's economic reform
program. In this context, the proposed SRS credit is similar to previous operations, as it supports the
SAC 3 and ESAC policy measures.
A review of lessons from implementation of health projects in ECA countries shows that: (1) health
sector reform is a lengthy, politicized process requiring (a) carefully sequenced changes; (b) strong
support to strengthen countries' over-stretched institutional capacity for implementing reforms; and (c)
marketing of reforms to lawmakers, the medical community and the public. (2) simple projects with
uncomplicated implementation arrangements are more likely to succeed; and (3)shorter projects linked to
smaller, more realistic sets of reforms are more likely to be effective. The hospital restructuring
component takes these factors into account by:
-  Taking advantage of the momentum and political commitment that has developed in Georgia
following the preparation of the hospital restructuring plan.
*  Focusing on a single key issue, restructuring the sector, in order to save money to invest in improving
the quality of health services.
*  Including a large amount of technical assistance to ensure true capacity building and sustainability of
the investment.
-  Including an extensive public relations program, which has already begun with a conference in April
1999 where the plan was discussed with physicians, lawmakers, government officials, and other key
decision-makers.
In developing anti-corruption strategies for countries in the Region, use of surveys and publication of the
results with an Action Plan has served as a strong signal of Government and political commitment to
reform. They have also been extremely effective in creating external pressures for reform, and for
introducing greater transparency about the implementation and impact of reform. These instruments were
used in Georgia, and the components in this project seeking to address corruption (delicensing and public
procurement reforms) were developed and agreed as a part of the Government's anti-corruption strategy.
While implementation of the anti-corruption action plan has been mixed, the proposed SRS credit focuses
on the two most successful areas, i.e., procurement reform and delicensing.
The lack of public understanding, and resulting opposition, to certain World Bank sponsored reform
programs in the past has resulted in substantial allocation of funds for Public Education and Information,
with the aim of bringing stakeholders on board and enlisting their support for the program.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the preparation mission, the Bank team met with all Government ministries and agencies involved
in this project. Counterparts were supportive of the operation and encouraged a rapid approval. Even the
hospital restructuring component, which is particularly controversial, has the support of not only the
Ministry of Health, but of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of State Property Management, and the



Page 12
President's Office. This commitment extends to the highest levels of Government - during his visit to
Washington in April, President Shevardnadze requested early approval of this project from Mr.
Wolfensohn.
Much of the technical assistance required to prepare the project was financed by the Government under
SATAC II. For example, for the hospital restructuring component, SATAC II financed the preparation
of the Hospital Masterplan, options for human resources strategies, legal advice, and design of a
communications program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's support is critical. Several of the reforms supported under this operation require political
will, and/or effective communications to the public regarding the rationale and need for these changes.
Examples include hospital consolidation, privatization of difficult sectors such as telecom and ports, and
anti-corruption measures supported under the project. The Bank is well-placed to respond to the
Government's requests in these areas by combining policy advice, balance of payment and budgetary
support, and financing of technical assistance.
Significant work is ongoing in all areas supported by this proposed credit - through projects under
preparation or implementation, or through economic and sector work. The Health project has provided a
good foundation for the work on the Hospital Restructuring, and much of the preparatory activities were
funded by prior technical assistance credits. The Bank was asked to assist the Government in examining
options for privatization of the telecommunications companies andPoti port, and has worked closely with
EU-TACIS and USAID in this area. Significant work in the energy sector has been done, including
assistance in privatization of Telasi (Tbilisi's electricity distribution company), and assistance to GNERC
on regulatory issues. Technical assistance and policy advice in developing an anti-corruption action plan,
including surveys and workshops conducted, has framed the discussion on key measures, such as
procurement and licensing reforms, the Government can take to lessen the opportunities for corruption.
The Bank has worked closely on banking sector issues, including through ongoing sector work, and
technical assistance in this area was provided in response to the Russia crisis. A recently completed
Poverty Assessment has shaped the discussions with Government on urgent actions necessary to protect
the socially vulnerable, and the Government has asked for the Bank's support in this area.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Investment Component Only -Hospital Restructuring Component)
Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 5)
1. Economic:
[x ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=   % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
With nearly 12,000 hospital beds in over 50 hospitals, Tbilisi has more hospitals than are needed or than
are economically sustainable. Clear indicators of excess capacity include occupancy rates of around 40
percent and average lengths of stay or more than 11 days - both much higher than seen in OECD
countries, for example. Assuming 70 percent occupancy, a more efficient average hospital size of 300
bedM, and a 20 percent reduction in average length of stay, an economically optimal number of hospital
beds would have been around 3,300. However, the feasibility of reducing capacity by more than 70
percent was deemed excessive taking into account uncertainties related to the demand for services. This
analysis was confirmed by a set of national health account projections prepared in 1998 to assess the
economic viability of several different policy options.



Page 13
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=        %
With the objective of reducing the number of hospitals and beds in Tbilisi, the project alternative of
establishing a hospital restructuring fund which would raise at least $56 million from privatization
proceeds that would be reinvested in the remaining hospitals was found to be more financially viable than
other alternatives considered, including doing nothing, building totally new facilities, or upgrading all
existing facilities. A financial analysis at the facility level found that the average annual cost per bed
could be expected to double compared to actual reimbursement rates paid today. However, since these
rates do not cover full costs, this increase is less than would be seen if all hospitals were to raise prices to
reflect actual costs. The analysis found that this higher level of costs would be financially viable under
the project if prices increased by 10 percent per year starting in 2002 and if payment arrears from state
and municipal sources were reduced to 10 and 20 percent respectively.
3. Technical:
Experience in other countries has shown that while getting incentives right in the financing of health care
is essential, it is usually not sufficient to reach optimal supply levels. Instead, more proactive government
intervention is required. The proposed hospital restructuring program in Georgia, if successful, could
become a model for the region, where nearly every country faces similar problems but none have
succeeded in significantly reducing supply. The program has the added benefit of providing additional
capital that would otherwise not be available for the sector
Similarly, closing hospitals will not necessarily improve efficiency or quality of the operations of the
hospitals unless organizational reforms are present. In the project, this would be accomplished through
modifying the incentive structure and governance of the hospital sector as well as ensuring the availability
of skilled managers.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Health PCU and SATAC PIU would be responsible for technical coordination
and daily operation and monitoring of all program activities (working closely with the relevant line
ministries).
b. Project management: Project management arrangements are discussed in Section C.3. Existing PIUs
(Health PCU, and SATAC PIU) will be used to implement this project, and both are quite experienced in
implementing the type of operation proposed. They will each be strengthened with additional staff, to
ensure their capacity to implement this operation.
c. New institution: The Hospital Restructuring Fund (HRF) will be established as part of the project in
order to take responsibility for implementing the restructuring program when the project is complete.
Key functions and the institutional set-up of the HRF have been agreed upon and are indicated in the
Government's Statement of Intent (see Attachment 1).
5. Social:
In analyzing the social impact of the proposed project, several sources of information were used. A
stakeholder analysis, "Perceptions of Health Reform" was undertaken in November, 1998 as part of the
mid-term review for the Georgia Health project. The study provides an understanding of the various
perspectives that stakeholders have about the major accomplishments, problems, impact, and future
priorities of the reforms. The stakeholders interviewed included representatives from central government,
hospitals, polyclinics, providers, refugees and patients. The perspective and potential impact of hospital



Page 14
restructuring on health care providers was further explored in a series of focus groups conducted in April
1999. Providers are the group most likely to face negative consequences of hospital consolidation and
closure. Additional insights into the more general situation of coping strategies for unemployment are
also provided in "A qualitative study of impoverishment and coping strategies", a background paper for
the Poverty Assessment.
In the stakeholder analysis, the overwhelming issue identified by all groups was the lack of funding in the
sector and the corresponding lack of access to good quality health care services. The overall opinion of
the reforms had worsened between the baseline study in 1996 and the 1998 report. There was a sense of
disillusionment and distrust in Government to do anything right. The proposed project clearly addresses
the identified needs of many stakeholders in the system.
An issue identified by health care providers in both the stakeholder analysis and the focus groups was the
low levels of pay. This has been substantiated by the Poverty Assessment, which found the official
salaries of health care workers to be amongst the lowest in the country. However, the study also found
that the income of those workers was amongst the highest. The incidence of informal payments was cited
by many patients as being problematic and raises serious equity concerns (as well as being a substantial
loss in tax revenue for the Government). The project will attempt to address this issue by reducing the
number of staff in the sector and increasing the wages of those who will remain. Improved management
in the remaining hospitals should also help to reduce the level of informal payments. The proposed study
of informal payments should identify other mechanisms for decreasing the practice as well as monitoring
their prevalence and level during the project.
The human resource aspects of the project pose the most social problems as it is inevitable that some staff
will be laid off. The most generous compensation package that is possible given financial and labor
market constraints will be offered. Other options such as retraining programs and supplementary pension
funds will also be explored. The entire program will be accompanied by a communications program that
will be as interested in what people have to say as in communicating what is happening and why it is
happening.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [ ]A   [XI B   [I C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The only component expected to have environmental concerns
is the Hospital Restructuring component, and specifically that sub-component designed to consolidate
health facilities. The component will face four issues: (i) waste management; (ii) pollution control of the
incinerator; (iii) asbestos in the material of facilities to be privatized, and iv) medical waste in the
facilities to be privatized. The project proposes to mitigate the above factors by: (i) providing technical
assistance that will improve the operations and management of the two main host facilities (Republican
Children's and Gudushauri General Hospitals) and will specifically address the issue of waste
management; (ii) including incinerators in the designs of the rehabilitation to make waste disposal more
safe and cost effective; (iii) ensuring that the incinerators are designed according to Western standards
and are suitably located; (iv) ensuring that all buyers of privatized facilities are aware of the asbestos
content of the buildings, its hazards, and locally available alternatives to use during any future
rehabilitation; and (v) conducting an inventory of existing medical waste in the facilities to be privatized
and preparing a removal action plan approved by IDA.
7. Participatory approach:
Several project components employed some form of participation in their design.



Page 15
*  The development of the hospital restructuring program was done through continuous consultation
with health care providers (especially head doctors) and the Ministry of Health and later presented at
a workshop to inform the public and the provider communities and get feedback.
*  the social sustainability component drew from the Poverty Assessment, which used participation to
better understand the nature of poverty in Georgia and coping strategies of the poor. This work
contributed to the component design, and was instrumental in gaining Government ownership of the
proposed reforms.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government is committed to this project, up to the level of the President, assuring strong political
will. Project sustainability will also be enhanced through dialogue and conditionality under SAC III.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                                         isk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government implements Hospital Restructuring      S       Government  has  signed  a
Program, including open, competitive sale as real         Statement  of  Intent which
estate of facilities to be closed under Phase 1.          outlines the principles of the
Government provides adequate budgetary support            program  agreed upon by all
to  social sectors, including  health. Adequate           agencies (MoH, MoF, MoSPM).
governance of publicly owned hospitals is adopted.        SAC 3 conditionality on budget
formulation/ execution.    A
public  education/  relations
program has been included to
overcome    resistance    of
public/providers.
Political will to support selling of largest state  S     SAC 3 Conditionality. Actions
assets is maintained, and regulatory power granted        taken to date (sale of Telasi,
to independent entities.                                  GNERC) support assessment of
Government commitment.
Medium- to long-term  sequenced and strategic     M       Technical assistance will be
support needed to make lasting institutional changes      provided  to  develop  and
to the budget process.                                    implement   a   longer-term
strategy. Ongoing work on
public sector reform leading to a
PSR follow-up credit will
provide continued support and
policy leverage.
Strict  enforcement  of  Licensing  Law  and      M       Technical assistance will be
operational guidelines followed to support new Law        provided to assist the MoJ and
on Public Procurement.                                    MoE in this process. Ongoing
work on public sector reform,
leading up to a PSR adjustment
credit provides policy leverage.-
Political willingness to review social assistance  M      Government  commitment  is
recipient lists and improve targeting.                    strong, with recognition that
providing small amounts to
many prevents the Government
from    providing    meanful
assistance to those most in need.



Page 16
Financially sustainable public pension system and  S       SAC 3 and IMF conditionality.
pension strategy is dependent on Government
ability to manage its budget execution in a way that
does not underfund pensions.
From Components to Outputs
Adequate revenue from  sale of hospitals not       M       Project design assumptions have
realized.                                                  been used that mitigate this risk
- only 80% projected value of
the building (not land) has been
used as an assumption.
Adequate  and  timely  provision  of required      S        Project design  has  ensured
counterpart funding.                                       Government ownership at all
levels,    vertically    and
horizontally.    Close  project
supervision and dialogue will
ensure that counterpart funding
is provided on schedule.
Implementation capacity of Government to manage    N       PIUs managing the project are
the project.                                                very    experienced,    and
performing well. Close project
supervision will be provided.
Overall Risk Rating                                S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    Opening of two Borrower contribution accounts and deposit of an amount of US$ 50,000 into
each account.
(ii)   FMS acceptable to the Association in place.
(iii)  Independent auditors have been appointed by the Borrower with experience and qualifications
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
2. Other:
(i)    Borrower to maintain two Project Accounts with a minimum balance of $50,000 each to be
replenished quarterly.
(ii)    Borrower's PIU and PCU to submit audit reports and audited financial statements not later than
six months after the close of the fiscal year.
(iii)   Mid-term review by November, 2000 to assess overall progress in project implementation,
identify problem areas in project implementation and recommend remedial actions and follow-up.
(iv)   Borrower to maintain adequately staffed PIU and PCU with appropriate skills.
(v)    Borrower to submit to IDA by March 31, 2002, its contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report.
(vir   By March 31, 2000 the Hospital Restructuring Fund has been legally established, with an
Operations Manual acceptable to IDA.
(vii)  PCU and PIU to strengthen its Financial Management System by December 31, 1999 to enable
preparation of Project Management Reports.
(viii)  The Borrower shall issue, through its Ministry of Education, standards for accreditation of
medical schools based on conditions and criteria satisfactory to the Association not later than
October 1, 1999, and immediately thereafter initiate the process of accreditation.



Page 17
Disbursement conditions:
(ix)  As a condition of disbursement for the Civil Works under the Hospital Restructuring component,
the Borrower will carry out an inventory of medical waste in the facilities to be privatized, and
furnish to the Association a satisfactory action plan for the removal of such waste.
(x)    As a condition of disbursement for the Public Sector Reform/Information component, the Public
Information Center will be legally reestablished under the Office of the President.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ I Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI           plies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leaders: Cyril Muller, ECeOC, Laura Rose, ECSHD
Sector ers: Atamn Aksoy, EASPE and Annette wxon, ECSHD
cting Country Director: Hafez Ghanem, ECCO3



Page 18
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Georgia: Structural Reform Support Project
Narrative Summary             Key Performance           Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
Three of the four CAS objectives                                                 Factors outside of control of
are being addressed under the                                                    government (such as civil
proposed SRS: (i) "strengthening                                                 conflicts, Russia crisis)
public finance" through improved                                                 would negatively influence
tax and customs administration,                                                  economic performance and
civil service reform, increased                                                  increase poverty.
cost recovery, and shifts in
expenditure composition; (ii)
"deepening and diversifying
sources of growth" through
mobilization of private capital and
reduced government role in
productive functions; and (iii)
"reducing poverty" through better
targeted social safety net
programs.
Project Development Objective:                                                   (Objective to Goal)
The objective of the project is to                                               Political environment
accelerate the change in the                                                      continues to be supportive
respective functions of the private                                               of building a market-based
and the public sectors in                                                        economy with an increased
delivering key services.                                                         "public goods" focus for
government intervention.
Weak resource mobilization
performance threatens
sustainability of reforms and
poverty alleviation goal.
Outputs:                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
(a) Fewer public sector hospitals   Decrease in number of public  Hospital Restructuring   Hospital Restructuring
with improved quality and      medical facilities (facilities    Fund to establish  Program fully implemented.
efficiency of services.        sold as real estate,        monitoring and
restructured hospitals).   reporting system.
Decrease in overall staffing    Project reports and  Competitive public
and changed composition of   supervision.         procurement procedures
staff; shorter average length                     are accepted and
of stay in hospital.                              followed; contractors are
competent.
Decrease in post-operative
infection rates.
Decrease in informnal
I payments in Tbilisi Hospitals



Page 19
(b) Improved allocation and     Decrease in difference       Ministry of Finance    No arrears accumulation
higher effectiveness of budget  between budgeted and                                in FY2000.
management process and the use   executed expenditure for core  Project reports and
of public resources.            expenditure categories in    supervision.
FY2000.
(c) Competitive procurement     Department for State         Ministry of Economy    New institutional and
introduced and effective licensing.  Procurement (MOE) fully                        legal framework is rapidly
operational and fulfilling its                     implemented and
functions.                                          operational guidelines
followed.
Licensing of economic       Ministry of Justice     Strict enforcement of Law
activities in accordance with                       on Licensing.
new Law on Licensing;
decreasing number of
licensing abuse complaints.
(d) Improved govermment         Improved coordination and    Information Center in    Continued political support
communications on reforms.      quality of information across  the President's Office.   for improved
agencies.                                           communication on reforms.
Information Center          Project reports and     Overcome existing
transferred to President's  supervision.            weaknesses in information
Office and effective in                             sharing.
coordinating other Press
Offices.
(e) Privately-owned infrastructure   Telecommunication       Ministry of State       Political resistance to selling
"operators" for                 companies privatized and     Property Management   largest state assets is
telecommunications, energy, and   Poti port privately operated.                      overcome.
ports. Improved quality of      Strategic investment in
services.                       sectors.                                             Investor interest in Georgia
is sufficient to mitigate
external risks.
(f) Regulatory frameworks       Laws and regulations in place  GNERC, Ministry of    Granting regulatory power
adopted and operational for     in time to attract foreign   Economy, Parliament   to independent entities is
telecom, energy, ports.         investors.                                           accepted.
Establishment of regulatory
capacities.
(g) Consolidated banking sector.   Fewer banks with stronger    NBG                  NBG's independence is
balance sheets and                                  maintained.
institutional capacities.
Improved capacity of NBG to
manage failing banks.
(h) Social safety net programs  Lists of recipients are      Ministry of Social      Willingness to,identify
reaching their recipients and   reviewed and targeting       Security, Labor and     ghost recipients and
improved information base for   improved.                    Employment              continue strengthening
revising programs.                                                                  targeting capacity.



Page 20
(i) Financially sustainable  Improved capacity to       Ministry of Social       Long tern view of pension
public pension system and   manage and model public     Security, Labor and      provision (fighting "short
pension strategy designed.  pension fund.               Employment; State        term blindness")
Pension Fund
Pension reform strategy
formulated.
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each
components: (see Annex 2 for  component)
project description)
A. Hospital Restructuring and   $9.97
Financing of Health Care
B. Private Sector           $4.49
Development and Financial
Sector
C. Public Sector             $2.70
Reform/Public Information
D. Social Sustainability     $2.48
E. Project Management        $0.16
(components B-D)



Page 21
Annex 2
Georgia Structural Reform Support Project
Project Description
Project Component A - Hospital Restructuring-
US$ 9.97 million of Total Project Costs (project files contain more detailed
information on this component)
Background:
The Georgian fiscal crisis has hit the health sector particularly hard. Public financing for health fell to
less than US$7 per person in 1998, representing 6% of public spending. A comprehensive health sector
reform began in 1995 and is supported by a World Bank financed project. Public enthusiasm for creating
what some considered to be revolutionary change in the health system has been replaced by
disillusionment and frustration. For the reforms to succeed, two main sectoral issues must be addressed:
(1) additional resources must be raised by improving the tax collection system; and (2) efficiency must be
improved by reducing capacity. The proposed structural adjustment program proposes to do both.
The majority of public financing for health comes from a 4% payroll tax and transfers from the central
budget. But 87% of total health spending comes from patients themselves. This is an unprecedented
level of out-of-pocket spending which not surprisingly, has been found to be one of the major causes of
families slipping into poverty. Additional public revenue is needed to allow risk pooling and targeting of
services for those unable to pay.
The excess capacity in the Georgian health system is a remnant of the old Soviet system. Today, Georgia
has 287 hospitals with nearly 25,000 hospital beds, with a ratio of 4.5 beds per 1000 population compared
to 2.5 per 1000 population on average in OECD countries, and occupancy rates of 28% (more than one
hundred hospitals had occupancy rates less than 10% in 1998) and average lengths of stay (ALOS) of
10.5 days. Improvements in primary health care and introduction of new forms of technology are also
likely to further diminish the demand for hospitals. There is a corresponding surplus of health care
providers, especially physicians, with one physician per 245 population compared with one per 400
population in the OECD. This situation could potentially worsen with the opening of more than fifty
private medical schools since 1995.
Spreading scarce resources over so many facilities has diluted the amount of money spent on capital
investments, maintenance, supplies, and salaries in hospitals. Reducing the number of hospital beds
without concurrent reductions in space (thus saving on utility and maintenance expenses) or staff will
result in little cost savings for the hospital. An assessment of all of the hospitals in Tbilisi determined that
financing only the civil works needed for these buildings to bring them up to minimal standards would
cost US$100 million. More than 80% of the existing medical equipment is either outdated or out of
service and should be replaced as well. To upgrade all 287 hospitals in the country would cost more than
US$200 million.
Hospitals have been reluctant to lay off staff, despite the Government having removed more than 130,000
health workers from the budget in 1995. The practice of low official salaries paid to healthl care
providers, supplemented with illegal payments made directly from patients, provides them with little
incentive. Today, the average annual salary of a typical physician practicing in a hospital is 573 GEL,
while the minimal subsistence level of income in Georgia for one person is 1,080 GEL (as cited in the



Page 22
Poverty Assessment). This results in absurd staffing ratios. A recent cost study of 41 hospitals in
Georgia found that on average, one and a half physicians served each occupied hospital bed. The
importance of performing sufficient clinical procedures to maintain skill levels is well documented and
the problems with excess supply in Georgia directly affect quality as well. The social assessment
documents cases where health providers had to pay to get access to hospitals and wards with more
patients so that they would be able to earn more from informal payments.
Clearly, these deteriorations in the system also affect the quality of care in more direct ways. Many
hospitals lack water or electricity and there are reported incidents of patients dying on the operating table
when the power has gone off. During preparation of the hospital masterplan, 90% of hospitals in the
country were found to be unsafe. Certainly the decline in rates of hospitalization and lengths of stay can
in part be explained by a decreasing ability of patients to pay for these services out of pocket and but also
a recognition that hospitals today in Georgia can be very dangerous places.
Government's strategy to reduce the capacity of the health care system
In 1995, in response to the economic crisis that brought public expenditures on health to a level of less
than US$1 per capita, the Government launched an ambitious health sector reform program. The vision
of the future health system was a social insurance model, maintaining the principles of solidarity and
equity. Good health would be maintained through a primary care based system, which emphasized health
promotion and disease prevention. While financing was to remain semi-public through social insurance,
provision of services was to be mostly private, with a few key facilities remaining in public hands in order
to ensure access to remote areas and specialized services.  Competition between providers was to be
introduced, and reimbursement for services provided paid through a new intermediary agency, the State
Health Agency.
The Government's 1996 Health Strategy identified excess capacity as an issue and proposes three
alternative means to address the problem:
*  changing the incentives to providers with a new payment system that reimbursed only those services
actually provided;
a  accrediting and licensing medical institutions and personnel and denying the right to practice to those
not licensed; and
*  privatizing a large portion of the sector
Provider Payment Reforms: As part of the reforms, the legal status of hospitals was changed from budget
institution to state enterprise. The main implication of this action was creation of a financial separation
for health facilities from the national budget and introduction of a new case-based payment method.
Simultaneously, staff salaries were also removed from the budget and employees were no longer
considered civil servants. This was an attempt to put in place the right incentives for improving the
efficiency of the system and also to divest the central government from many responsibilities it was no
longer able to fulfill. Unfortunately, the government is such a small player in financial terms any more,
thatits ability to influence the sector through financial incentives is limited.
Licensing and Accreditation: The Ministry of Health has assumed the role of licensing health facilities
and by end 1998, more than 250 hospitals had been licensed. The process of licensing health care
providers is now underway with significant numbers of both graduating students and practicing
physicians failing the exam. The law stipulates that all physicians must be licensed by December 31,



Page 23
2000. The most problematic issue has been the growing number of medical schools. More than fifty
private medical schools have opened since 1991, with an enrollment of 14,000 and an expected annual
graduating class of 3,000. A Commission of Accreditation was formed in 1996 in accordance with the
Health Law. Newer legislation in 1998, however, passed this responsibility over to the Ministry of
Education, resulting in some delays in the process and closure of few schools. While the number of
entrants has begun to decline in response to the market, it is important that the process of accreditation
resume.
These two strategies - changing incentives through new provider payment mechanisms and denying the
right to practice to those who do not pass minimum qualifying standards - have been somewhat successful
and explain a part of the decrease in beds and physicians that is seen since 1995, when the reform
program began. However, as has been seen in other countries, market approaches to capacity reduction
are not sufficient to reach optimal supply levels. The health care market has many peculiarities including
an asymmetry of information between providers and consumers and the ability of providers to generate
their own demand. The market approaches must be complimented with a more proactive policy to
liquidate government-owned assets and limit entry into the medical profession.
In 1996, the Law of Privatization of Public Enterprises established the general rules for the privatization
of state enterprises as well as special rules for the privatization of health care facilities. A two-year
privatization program drafted by the MoH has been in operation since 1995. The law divides health
facilities into three groups: 1) pharmacies and dentists' offices; 2) ambulatories and policlinics; and 3)
hospitals. In addition to the three groups, facilities were divided into threecategories. Categories A and
B create restrictions in the property right of purchasers, while category C gives unrestricted property
rights. Category A facilities must continue to operate as health service organizations providing the same
type and scope of services as they did prior to privatization. This was done primarily to ensure access to
isolated groups or highly specialized services. Category B facilities have a ten-year period before their
use becomes unrestricted. Category C facilities have no restrictions or property rights.
A first batch of 400 facilities was privatized during 1996-1997 including pharmacies and dental offices.
Progress in the other two groups has been slow. In December, 1997 a Presidential Decree was issued
giving the Ministry of Health one month to produce a list of "essential" facilities to be kept under public
ownership. Another order from President Shevardnadze was issued in 1998 listing the 250 Category A
hospitals, policlinics, and research centers that were to remain in the public domain. The order also listed
the facilities to be privatized (120) with most (70) in Tbilisi. Originally, the revenues from privatization
were earmarked to go to the State Health Fund (since merged with the State Medical Insurance Company
- SMIC) and approximately 2.1 GEL were earned and transferred. Later however, as part of the budget
reforms, the money was reassigned to the central budget (as was revenues from excise taxes) and the SHA
was to receive its funding from two sources - the 3+1 payroll tax and the central budget).
The Bank has encouraged development and implementation of a rational approach to privatization of
health care facilities, particularly hospitals, in its policy dialogue and adjustment lending. This is further
supported by the Health Project, which will consolidate maternal and child health services into two
referral centers in Tbilisi and Kutaisi.
Development of a Hospital Masterplan and Restructuring Strategy
Most recently, Bank financing from SATACII supported preparation of a hospital masterplan. and
development of a restructuring and privatization strategy. In Tbilisi there are currently more than fifty
hospitals with 11,915 beds serving a population of approximately 1.4 million. The needs assessment
projected approximately 3,600 beds would be sufficient, using conservative assumptions on demand,
occupancy rates, average lengths of stay, and population growth. A computerized inventory of each of



Page 24
the 287 hospitals in the country was completed in 1998. The intent is that these data be used not only as
input into the hospital master plan, but also be used as a management tool for both the individual hospitals
and the Ministry of Health. Using the data from the inventory, each hospital passed through a 4-stage
screening process. The criteria for passing through stage 1 were based on location, bed capacity, age of
the building, and seismic safety. Hospitals were stopped at stage 2 if they had low capacity or utilization,
did not meet certain departmental standards (e.g. for laboratory and radiology) or it was determined that
physical upgrades would be overly expensive. Stage three evaluated the level of investment needed to
bring each facility to an appropriate standard. The final stage selected facilities to remain in the public
domain based on location, scope and level of services, and necessary capital investments. The plan for
Tbilisi was completed first and discussed with the Government and other stakeholders in September, 1998
and the plan for the rest of the country in April, 1999.
The Tbilisi Hospital Masterplan
The implementation plan for hospital restructuring has progressed furthest in Tbilisi, where more than
half of all the country's beds are located and efficiency gains are likely to be greatest. This component of
the proposed project would support implementation of the Tbilisi Hospital Masterplan (THMP), which
could later be extended to other areas of the country. The plan recommends:
e  12 facilities remain in the public sector (category A)
*  7 facilities be leased to the private sector (category B)
*  27 facilities be sold (category C)
*  5 facilities remain property of the Ministry of Health but be converted into housing for nurses
or geriatric nursing homes.
Attachment 2 lists the twelve hospitals that would remain under public ownership. The guiding principles
are that the hospitals will be managerially independent, self-financing, restructure their staff so that
salaries can be increased, and introduce strong quality assurance programs. Three hospitals, Republican
Children's, Republican Central, and Policlinic #5, have been designated as the primary centers for each
zone. The plan was developed so that access would be ensured. Everyone in the city is within 30 minutes
of one of these hospitals and within 20 minutes of emergency services. Many of the hospitals slated for
closure are research institutes, which see very few patients and have indicated their preference for moving
into the larger and better-endowed hospitals. As part of the exercise, the team interviewed head doctors at
many of the facilities, attempting to assess their opinions towards various restructuring options such as
merging with other hospitals with a renovated building and sharing support services; privatizing and
remaining in their facility, or remaining as today. There was a surprising level of support, especially in
research facilities that see very few patients.
The implementation section of the Tbilisi HospitalMasterplan proposed an innovative way to finance the
program: set up a fund to use privatization proceeds to upgrade facilities remaining in the public sector
and cover the costs of the transition, such as employee compensation and a public relations program.
Consolidation and relocation of the needed beds and functions in larger, newer facilities releases the
oldest, smallest, most inflexible and therefore least suitable buildings for hospitals, for sale or lease.
These are located in the best parts of town and are well suited for renovation into hotels, housing, clubs,
etc. Most are of great historic value and also have the highest real estate values. They would be sold as
buildings, not as hospitals. Sale of these buildings at 80% of market prices (as determined by local real
estate agents) is estimated to recover US$56 million. Recent passage of a law allowing privatization of
urban land should increase the value of the properties. In order not to flood the real estate market and to
minimize disturbing the delivery of services, the plan would be implemented in three phases. Phase 1,
which this project proposes to partly finance, would lead to the sale of at least ten buildings estimated to



Page 25
be worth US$18 million. The construction and remodeling costs to integrate services from these
institutions into the twelve remaining public institutions would cost US$2.1 million. The remaining funds
would be used to provide more extensive upgrades throughout the hospitals, purchase medical equipment,
provide redundant workers with severance packages and/or retraining, and run an intensive public
relations program about the project. Detailed breakdowns of the cost of remodeling, construction, and
equipment as well as market value of the facilities to be sold is included in Attachment 3.
Human Resources Strategy:
The masterplan recognizes the need to decrease the number of staff, but focuses mostly on the
identification, phasing, and cost of consolidating and selling the hospitals. Additional funds from
SATAC II have been used for technical assistance to explore options for dealing with the human
resources (HR) issues associated with the restructuring program. The first objective of the strategy is that
it be based on the principle that the transitional package will be attractive to employees, will assist in
fostering "buy in" to the change, and will be within the cost constraints imposed by the availability of
funds. To be effective this package must: (1) assist in the retention of essential staff; (2) encourage
employees without requisite skills to leave; and (3) provide incentives for retraining or redeployment to
those who already have the necessary skills or are capable of acquiring those skills. The second objective
of the strategy is to develop an ongoing human resources regime that ensures remuneration is linked to
performance and actual delivery of health services.
The scale of change envisaged under the restructuring program will mean that significant numbers of staff
will lose their jobs - the MoH estimates approximately one-third. To facilitate the acceptance of the
change and to reduce opposition the MoH will: (1) ensure compliance with all legal requirements; (2)
inform staff very clearly of the rationale, process, timeframe, and range of options open to them; and (3)
put in place a communications strategy to inform the public of the reasons for the changes and expected
benefits.
Several possible options will be considered: redeployment, retraining, job search and career counselling,
early retirement, supplementary pension fund, and a one-time severance payment. Most countries that
have undergone similar reductions in their public sector have opted for a one-time payment, partly
because it tends to be the option preferred by employees as well. Several severance options have been
identified and preliminary cost estimates are available. Assuming the number of redundancies is
approximately 1000, the cost of providing the absolute minimum compensation required by Georgian law
would be approximately 400,000 GEL. Modeling four different options depending on length of service
and trying to account for informal income of providers, the most expensive severance option totaledwith
a range of 2,822 GEL to 144 GEL per employee, depending on position. The government will need to
decide early on which option to implement.
Objectives of the Component:
The Hospital Restructuring Component has two objectives, to improve the efficiency of the health care
system by reducing the number of hospitals and personnel in the city of Tbilisi and to ensure the quality
and financial sustainability of the hospitals that remain.
Sub-Component Al. Hospital Consolidation - US$ 8.63 million (total project cost)
Specific activities to befinanced
The project will help the GoG set up and initiate activities of a Hospital Restructuring Fund (HRF). The
Fund would be revolving -- replenished with proceeds from facilities that were sold and using them to



Page 26
upgrade the remaining facilities and compensate redundant staff. The HRF will likely continue to
function for at least ten years as the rationalization process is carried out in three-phases in Tbilisi. The
following expenditures would be eligible for financing under the HRF:
* Remodeling and upgrading building infrastructure of facilities which are to remain under public
ownership (twelve according to the THMP).
* Medical equipment for the public sector facilities.
* Human resources programs including a transitional package for redundant staff which might
include severance payments and retraining programs.
* Public relations program.
* Feasibility studies for other related activities such as setting up a supplementary pension fund,
establishing a hospital based HMO, etc.
* Operating expenses of the HRF.
Development of a Hospital Restructuring Fund:
Implementation of a hospital restructuring program in Tbilisi will extend beyond the life of this project.
In order to ensure continuation of the implantation of the program, part of the project will be devoted to
establishing an HRF. The Fund would have a Board comprising representatives of various stakeholders
such as the MoH, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Property Management, the municipality
of Tbilisi, and employee and employer representatives. The Board's responsibilities would be primarily to
oversee the implementation as well as monitor the impact of the agreed upon restructuring program. The
Bank would finance technical assistance to advise the Board to carry out its functions and evolve into an
independent fund, such as additional market research, legal counsel, and financial management. By
March 31, 2000 the Fund will have been established as a legal entity and an operational manual prepared.
By the end of the project, the Fund will be fully capable of assuming fulltime responsibility for
implementing the rest of the restructuring program in Tbilisi and perhaps nationwide. At some point the
mandate of the HRF might be extended to include policlinics. The Bank would also finance minor civil
works and office equipment and furniture to set up the location of the HRF.
The Government has signed a Statement of Intent confirming the key elements of the Hospital
Restructuring Program. The Statement of Intent also includes the following agreements:
*  the privatization will be open and competitive, with no preference given to the staff.
*  the building is being purchased as real estate and can be usedfor any purpose.
*  The Ministry of State Property Management will take 7 percent of the sale price as payment for
managing the transaction and the remaining money will be put into an earmarked account for
implementation of this program.
*  that eligible expenditures are the hospital investment program, severance packages and other
transitional costs related to the privatization, a public information campaign, and administrative
expenses of the HRF.
Remodeling and Equipping Facilities:
During the life of the project, the facilities will be privatized and sold as real estate in a competitive
maTket. The actual process of privatization will be carried out by the Ministry of State Property
Management (MoSPM). The Board of the HRF would work with the MoSPM to oversee the phasing of
the sales. Bank financing would be used to initiate the civil works and purchase of medical equipment
and medical furniture in four hospitals that will receive the services of the ten hospitals slated for closure
under the project. A detailed description of the rehabilitation needs and medical equipment requirements



Page 27
is provided in the project implementation plan. The cost estimates for phases two and three of the
program assume substantial investments in medical equipment which may need to be financed elsewhere,
possibly by other donors. The viability of future phases will depend on how successful the first phase
progresses, particularly on the value received for the privatized facilities and land. Technical assistance
for the engineering design and construction supervision will be financed under the project. Computer and
IT equipment and office furniture would be purchased for those staff moving from research institutes.
Development and Implementation of Human Resources Programs:
The consolidation of Tbilisi hospitals poses some human resources issues that are relatively new to the
health sector in Georgia. Those issues are:
*  The management of a transition involving redundancy for a significant number of staff and the
transfer of staff between facilities and functions;
*  The management of a transitional package with a range of options being made available to affected
workers; and
*  A requirement to re-appoint staff to positions on the basis of merit rather than service.
This process is important to the success of the overall project as changes to management and performance
culture in the renewed facilities are essential to ensure that those facilities focus on improved health
outcomes. The component will provide technical assistance to the Georgian agencies involved in the
following areas: i) refinement and selection of the final options in regard to the transition process; ii) new
processes such as appointments, staff transfers, development of contracts and performance agreements;
iii) assistance with the transition process, e.g. notice requirements and timing; and iv) development of an
human resource strategy for the sector.
Public Information Campaign:
The Government recognizes that disseminating information, monitoring public opinion and promoting
successes are keys to implementing reforms successfully. The hospital restructuring program could face
significant opposition that would slow and possible derail its implementation. Therefore, the Public
Information Campaign would provide essential support to the restructuring program by: (i) informing the
general public and health care providers about the goals and progress of the reforms; and (ii) using this
information and targeted messages to highlight the benefits and build support among key beneficiary
groups. Specifically, this component would implement a campaign strategy over the life of the project by
strengthening the Information and Media Department of the Ministry of Health; running programs and
advertisements on TV, the radio, and in newspapers; and hosting public events and seminars. The impact
of the campaign would be monitored through the use of benchmark and tracking polls as well as focus
groups. Specific phasing has been established to update the campaign as necessary.
This component would finance foreign and local technical assistance, workshops and seminars;
development, production and distribution of campaign materials (posters, banners, etc.), information
handouts and booklets; production and broadcasting of TV and radio programs and advertisements;
suwveys, focus groups, and polls.



Page 28
Sub-Component A2. Hospital Operational Reform - US$ 1.16 million (total project cost)
Specific activities to be financed
Hospital Governance, Organization and Management:
This project will address both the relationships the hospital has with Government as well as internal,
organizational reforms.  At the end of implementation of the hospital consolidation program,
approximately twelve hospitals will remain under public ownership in Tbilisi. The Government is
committed to ensuring the success of these institutions, both financially and clinically. As part of this
project, the relationship between the Government, particularly the Ministry of Health, and the hospitals
will be altered. It is the Ministry's intent to not be directly involved in the management of the hospitals
that remain in the public sector. Decisions about the extent to which the government has control over the
management and financing of, and is ultimately accountable for, the facilities are critical to the success of
this project. The main principles are outlined in the Statement of Intent and will be further developed
with technical assistance financed from SATAC II and from this sub-component.
The sub-component will also look at organization within the hospital and how it can be changed to
improve efficiency and quality. The component will finance technical assistance to developoperational
plans for the hospitals remaining in the public sector. These will include descriptions of the management
structure, clinical operations, and quality assurance programs. The project will also finance the
preparation of financial plans for the facilities that can be used as the basis for contract negotiations and
risk management as well as ensuring the financial viability of the institution. Indicators of quality and
efficiency that will be monitored include post-operative infection rates, complications from selected
surgical procedures, average length of stay, occupancy rate, hospitals' balance sheets, and patient
satisfaction.
The activities in operational reform will be complemented by a management training program for the four
public sector hospitals to be included in the project. The program will include initial training in Tbilisi
followed by a short-term practical internship abroad. Once managers return to their hospitals, a long-term
consultant will be available in Tbilisi to rotate through the four hospitals to provide additional training.
Improving Equity of Health Care Financing:
It is not sufficient to invest in the hospital sector without ensuring the availability of funds to maintain
and operate that investment. Yet the reality in Georgia today is that very little money in the health sector
passes through the hands of either the central or municipal governments. A study of health expenditures
in Georgia found that only 15 percent of spending on secondary and tertiary care was public. The rest was
paid directly out-of-pocket by patients. In order to improve the risk pooling of this spending, ensure
equal access for rich and for poor, and facilitate payment to hospitals, the project would prepare several
risk pooling pilots that could be implemented with the assistance of NGOs or other international
organizations. These pilots might be based on geographical area, occupation, or other group large enough
to ensure sufficient pooling of risks.
The component will also study the prevalence and effects of illegal, informal payments which patients are
required to pay in addition to what the Government already pays as part of the basic package or what
hospitals officially charge. These payments pose serious equity concerns and also change the incentive
structure put into place by the official provider payment system. Reduction in the size of these payments
is an objective of the project and the study will not only identify solutions for addressing the problem, but
also provide important information to monitor and evaluate the project's impact.



Page 29
The component would finance foreign and local technical assistance as well as a study tour.
Sub-Component A3. Project Management (US$O.182 million of total project cost)
The Bank will finance additional cost to the Health Project PCU for procurement and financial
management under this component. This will include office equipment, furniture, and training.
Project Component B -Private Sector Development and Financial Sector - US$ 4.49
million
Background
Private Sector Development: Georgia has privatized about 10,000 small-scale and 1,000 medium- and
large-scale enterprises to date. While these are impressive figures, over three-quarters of the enterprise
sector equity as measured by book value remains in Government's hands. In 1998, the Government
expanded the scope of the privatization program to cover key infrastructure. The first transaction was
completed in December, 1998, i.e., the sale of Telasi to AES. The challenge for 1999 and the years ahead
is to attract strategic investors in the large remaining state-owned enterprises and to expand the program
of infrastructure privatization. The Government's strategy is to rely on strategic privatization/investment
and to retain financial/legal advisors to assist in the preparation and promotion of those transactions. As a
signal to international investors, the Government will offer for sale in 1999 the two telecommunications
companies and Poti Port. An adequate regulatory framework is critical to attract strategic investors in
infrastructure enterprises. A first example can be taken from the Energy Regulatory Commission which
has been granted an independent status and is strongly supported by donor programs to fulfill its function.
Financial Sector: In the second half of 1998 Georgia's financial sector faced unexpected pressures due to
the impact of the Russia crisis and weaknesses in emerging non-banking financial institutions. The
response of the National Bank and of the Government was rapid, letting the exchange rate float and
assessing the vulnerability of banks. The consolidation of the banking sector has been accelerated with a
few banks failing, and increased pressures on the NBG to loosen their licensing requirements.
Objectives of the Component
This component would address three of the critical challenges facing the privatization program and the
banking sector: (i) The privatization program is currently facing the difficult challenge of infrastructure
and large enterprise privatization. In this context, SRS would aim at supporting the open, competitive,
strategic privatization of a few larger enterprises through the financing of financial, legal and technical
advisory services. (ii) In addition this component would aim at strengthening regulatory capacity of
infrastructure/utilities to enable strong private sector participation. (iii) The NBG needs to strengthen
further its supervision functions and monetary policy capacity. The proposed SRS aims at continuing
Bank support in this area.
Sub-component BI Strategic Privatization of Large-Scale Enterprises (US$2.60 million)
This subcomponent would fund financial, technical and legal advisors to the Government of Georgia on
strategic privatization. The first activity under this subcomponent will support the privatization of the two
telecommunications companies. Draft terms of reference for the advisors have been prepared and agreed
with the Ministry of State Property Management (under USAID financing). Additional fundingwill be
reserved to cover at least one to two other state enterprises under this program, including, depending on
readiness: gas companies, ports, railways, and water utilities. In addition, support in the form of two



Page 30
local advisors and support to the power privatization implementation unit would be provided to the
Ministry of State Property Management to assist in implementing power and gas sector privatization.
Sub-Component B2. Regulatory Capacity (US$1.20 million)
The SRS would continue to support the development of regulatory capacity in line with work begun
under SATAC II. This subcomponent would finance technical assistance and training in energy utility
regulation to the Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission, Anti-Monopoly Service,
members/staff of relevant Parliamentary committees, and staff of major energy enterprises. Financing
would also be provided for local working groups and a limited amount of equipment. Assistance would
also be provided to develop the legal and regulatory frameworks for port operations. Additional funding
will be set aside for work in other key sectors, e.g., telecommunications, private insurance/pensions,
depending on the sequencing of reforms, and urgency of need.
Sub-Component B3. Financial Sector Strengthening - US$ 0.64 million
In response to a longstanding request from the President of the National Bank the proposed credit would
finance a long-term advisor to the President to strengthen the NBG's overall policy-making ability,
including monetary policy and strategic organization (terms of reference discussed and agreed with the
IMF). In support of NBG's commitment to strengthen its bank supervisory role and liquidate problem
banks, the proposed credit would finance local assistance for one year. The credit would also finance the
purchase of equipment for the NBG Supervision Department to allow the upgrading of off-site
supervision capacity.
Project Component C - Public Sector Reform and Public Information - US$ 2.70 million
Background
Public finance has been on the top of the Government's reform agenda since the first stage of economic
reforms - the revenue base in 1994 was among the weakest in the world. The Government strategy has
been three-pronged: (i) tax reform; (ii) strengthening tax and customs administration; and (iii) improving
the efficiency of public spending through better expenditure planning, execution and downsizing of
government. Progress has been good in tax policy and in starting the process of civil service reform.
While improvements in tax and customs administration were successful in doubling the share of tax
revenues to GDP during the 1995-1997 period, these efforts were not sufficient to maihtain the growth
momentum in 1998 and 1999. This stagnation in revenues has led to renewed tax and customs
administration efforts. The Bank has been assisting in cooperation with other donors in strengtheningtax
and customs administration, including through support of the ongoing contracting-out of key customs
functions.
While the priority remains to increase revenues, improving the efficiency of public expenditures and of
the civil service, have become essential. Civil service reform is off to a strong start, with initial
legislation adopted, a government-wide Bureau in charge of coordinating the reforms appointed, and pilot
programs ongoing in the Ministries of Transport and Finance. President Shevardnadze's anti-corruption
program has yielded some results and important measures aimed at strengthening public procurement and
delicensing of economic activity are underway. However, the challenge of designing and implementing a
comprehensive anti-corruption action plan remains. Public procurement reforms are critical to introduce
discipline in public expenditure, abate misuse of public funds, and to support the ongoing economic
reforms and emerging private sector. Licensing reforms (actually de-licensing) are crucial so as not to



Page 31
stifle private sector development and encourage rent-seeking. While initially opposed by many line
ministries with licensing authority, and following an extensive consultation process with all key
stakeholders in Government and Parliament, agreement has now been reached on almost all aspects of the
proposed licensing regime and Parliament is expected to support the proposals.
The Government's objective in improving expenditure management is to ensure that it is efficient,
transparent, and in line with the approved budget. In the past, priority expenditures, such as those on
health, education and poverty benefits have suffered from revenue shortfalls, liquidity constraints and
cash management weaknesses which caused large arrears especially for core social expenditures. The
Government expenditure reform strategy will include measures to improve the budget management
process at the planning and execution stage. A reorganization of the Ministry of Finance along functional
lines is underway and management planning systems will be introduced to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of all departments within the Ministry of Finance.
Objectives of the Component
The objectives of this component are to: (i) assist the Government in developing a medium-term
expenditure framework, in order to improve public expenditure allocation, budgeting, and management;
(ii) support the implementation of new public procurement reforms and reform the licensing regime to
make it less discretionary and more transparent; and (iii) support the continuation of the capacity building
program in public information and public relations, with an aim to broaden its coverage, improve
coordination of government information services, and begin reaching out to the regions of Georgia. A
pre-condition for the public information component to move ahead would be a decision to move the
Public Information Center to the President's Office with a clear mandate of coordinating and
strengthening Government public information efforts.
Sub-Component Cl. Public Expenditure Management -- US$ 0.33 million
Under this component assistance would be provided to: (a) strengthen the process and techniques of
budget formulation and execution; and (b) undertake the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Finance so that it can more effectively fulfill its mandate to formulate and execute the budget.
A public expenditure management strategy will be prepared which will include: (i) a brief review of
recent progress in systems of public expenditure, taking note of external assistance provided and planned
in these areas; and (ii) a detailed development program for both budget formulation and budget execution,
including a timetable with major benchmarks and a program of training and technical support. In the
first instance, assistance will be provided to develop the strategic approaches. Following agreement with
IDA on the main conclusions of the strategies developed, assistance with a second stage of
implementation in priority areas will be funded.
The technical assistance provided to enhance the budget preparation process will focus on the
development of a strategy and consequently implementation of measures which will: (i) improve the
coordination between macroeconomic parameters for the budget and the development ofsectoral policies,
priorities and expenditure programs (both for current and investment expenditures); and (ii) allow within
the budget cycle a stronger phase of strategic allocation and a transparent decision-making process based
on clearly articulated budgetary choices. These reforms should center around introduction of a budget
framework exercise in the early stage of the budget cycle, including preparation of a budget framework
paper prepared by an inter-ministerial working group headed by the Ministry of Finance. Further
development of the framework will include: (i) use of the framework as a basis for consultation with the
legislature on broad budget strategy; and (ii) publication of the framework as a public statement of
Government expenditure plans.



Page 32
The technical assistance provided for improving budget monitoring and execution will focus on a review
of the progress so far in establishment of the treasury system and other aspects of budget execution and
the preparation of a medium term program for further development of the treasury. The program will
include a timetable for achievement of: (i) comprehensive coverage of the treasury system on a cash
basis, including budget revenue and expenditure, extrabudgetary funds, and all off budget resources; and
(ii) development of a comprehensive system for recording of expenditure commitments and introduction
of effective commitment controls at the central and local levels.
The institutional strengthening agenda of the Ministry of Finance includes defining the functional division
of responsibilities of structural units and staff of the Ministry in light of its changing role, providing for
appropriate delegation of authority to different levels of staff, analyzing Ministry staffing levels and skills
in relation to its tasks, preparation and implementation of a medium-term program for upgrading staff
skills, preparation of realistic job descriptions and defining and implementing, as part of the civil service
reform process, merit-based and transparent procedures for recruitment and promotion of staff.
This capacity building exercise has to proceed in parallel with the reassessment of the role of the state in
its transition to a market-oriented economy, and of the functions that it should undertake. However,
reviewing the state's functions can only be done appropriately in the context of a realistic estimate of
available resources.
The technical assistance provided for the institutional strengthening element will, among other things,
focus on the functional division of responsibilities of structural units and staff of the Ministry, analysis of
staffing levels, preparation of job descriptions and development of merit-based and transparent
procedures for recruitment, performance appraisal and career development.
Sub-Component C2. Public Procurement Reform - US$ 0.59 million
Technical assistance would be provided to strengthen the Public Procurement Department under the
Ministry of Economy, and extensive training and sensitization workshops are planned to facilitate support
and rapid implementation of procurement reforms.
Sub-Component C3. Licensing Reform - US$ 0.46 million
Technical assistance will be given to the Ministry of Justice to implement a new and simplified, less
discretionary licensing regime based on a new Law on Licensing.
Sub-Component C4. Public Information/Education - US$ 1.32 million
Under the proposed credit, continued assistance would be provided to the Public Information Center
within the State Chancellery. The Infornation Center has been successful in developing programs aimed
at improving information available to the population on economic reforms. As a precondition for support,
the Government has agreed to move the Public Information Center from the State Chancellery to the
Office of the President, with a view to make it a government-wide department. The component includes
financing for foreign technical assistance to the Unit; newspaper, television and radio coverage, along
with advertising (on a scaled back basis); and limited training for Georgian journalists.



Page 33
Project Component D - Social Sustainabilit - US$ 2.48 million
Background
The recently completed Georgia Poverty Assessment found that a significant portion of the population in
Georgia is poor. Approximately 11% of the population can be considered poor when measured by a frugal
poverty standard; and nearly 43% of the population is poor if measured by the (much more generous)
official poverty line. Many of these poor Georgians will be able to escape poverty on their own, in
response to economic growth and the opportunities it may generate. Others, however, may not be so
fortunate: they will get stuck in chronic poverty, and without help, will fall further and further behind.
For the latter, the Government has a responsibility to provide at least a minimum guaranteed level of
protection, through a credible and effective safety net.
Georgia's scarce fiscal resources limit what it can achieve through traditional social protection measures.
It is therefore essential to explore alternatives. It is also critical to monitor the impact of what meager
social assistance does exist, and to ensure that it goes only to the most needy. Georgia's track record in
this regard is not strong: despite having undertaken serious reforms of its social protection, there is a
widespread perception that what assistance is provided does not reach those who are poor; or reaches
them late and provides too little.
Two years ago the Government implemented an immediate five-year increase in the retirement age (to 65
for men and 60 for women). Even so, there are close to 900,000 pensioners in Georgia, over 16% of the
population. At the same time, the Government abolished virtually all retirement privileges that existed in
the Soviet system. Currently pensioners are receiving an extremely low (14 Lari) flat-rate monthly
pension. The public pension system is in near collapse, due primarily to thevery weak contribution base,
given the steep decline in formal sector employment and plummeting real wages, and the widespread tax
evasion and large informal economy. Given the Government's fiscal crisis, even the very minimal
pension funding has not been provided on a regular basis, with arrears to the Pension Fund continuing to
grow. Institutional capacity in the area of pensions is weak: there is a legal vacuum in public pensions
regulation; the legal and regulatory framework and institutions necessary for pension system development
are mostly lacking; and adequately trained and skilled staff are scarce. Soviet accounting methods are
still being used, and auditing is not in place. The technical capacity to administer retirement benefits is
extremely low, with depleted facilities, and no modern office equipment. The challenge facing the
Georgian Government in the long-run is to develop a fiscally sustainable and sound multi-pillar pension
system that can provide income security and prevent poverty in old age.
Objectives of the Component
This component has three objectives to support the establishment of a credible and affordable safety net.
*  First, to establish a continuous information and monitoring system that can track the social impact of
economic reforms. Such a poverty monitoring system is an essential component of informed policy
making. It would provide the Georgian Government, legislative bodies, and civil society with an
objective and unbiased view on the effects of currently pursued policies on different groups of the
population, and help to evaluate potential outcomes for alternative courses of action. It would also
-support existing efforts to confirm eligibility and access to social assistance programs.
* Second, to study the feasibility and desirability of workfare as a means to target assistance to the
poor. There are many reasons to believe that workfare is particularly well-suited to the Georgian
context (for more information see analysis on workfare in project files). The SRS project would
support the appraisal, design and pilot testing of such a scheme.



Page 34
* Third, to assist the Government in developing a pension reform strategy, and to build institutional,
technical, and human resources capacity for its successful implementation.
Sub-Component Dl. Poverty Monitoring/Targeting - US$ 0.25 million
The basic foundation of a poverty monitoring system is already in place through the State Department of
Statistics' (SDS) Survey of Georgian Households, which provides a high-quality tool for constant
monitoring of living standards, poverty, and inequality. However, to keep up with policy demands and
changing economic conditions, the survey has to undergo periodic changes in its sampling, questionnaires
and data management.  This sub-component would support the continued improvement and
implementation of the survey, as well as greater outreach and dissemination efforts.
Activities covered under this sub-component would include: (a) Support to the on-going Survey of
Georgian Households: update the address list; refresh the sampling frame of the Survey; design the data
entry program to minimize errors in data; improve quality control of interviewers; redesign the
questionnaire (consumption block) to minimize the number of imputations currently taken by SDS and
ensure more accurate measurement of current consumption; revise the instruments to reflect changes in
policy (mainly the introduction of vulnerability benefits and cost recovery measures in the energy sector);
(b) Support to the dissemination ofpoverty monitoring results: select the format and dissemination media
for periodic poverty monitoring updates; provide' hands-on assistance in preparing two to three such
updates and establishing channels for their dissemination; create a group in SDS responsible for preparing
and disseminating the quarterly updates, train SDS staff; (c) Collecting operative information on the
impact of policies: carry out a beneficiary assessment of vulnerability benefit recipients. This activity
would be subcontracted to an experienced NGO. If successful, this program would be expanded to cover
some of the assistance to refugees.
Sub-Component D2. Workfare Options/Pilot - US$ 0.71 million
Workfare programs aim to reduce poverty by providing low-wage work to those who need it. There are
many reasons to believe that workfare could be effective in Georgia. However, these interventions are
relatively complex to design, appraise and evaluate. Their success depends critically on the design and on
the details. Hence, it is essential that a possible intervention be designed with care. The proposed SRS
credit would finance a number of activities, focused on assessing the feasibility of using such programs in
Georgia and aimed at providing the Government with several alternative design and financing schemes.
Planned activities include: appraisal of the feasibility of a workfare scheme; design of key program
features including eligibility criteria for sub-projects and for recipients, wage rates, geographical location,
financing mechanisms, institutional and governance structure, and evaluation mechanisms; evaluation of
cost-effectiveness of proposed scheme(s) and comparison with other safety net interventions, and
assessment of impact on wage earnings of participants and non-participants; and design of detailed action
plan for implementation of pilot scheme. Depending on the outcome, a pilot program could be launched
in the second year of implementation, with results to be evaluated at the conclusion of the pilot.
Sub-Component D3. Pension Reform - US$ 1.52 million
The proposed credit would provide financing for: (i) development of a pension strategy, and associated
regulatory and supervisory framework, and technical assistance in establishment of appropriate



Page 35
institutions, and associated training needs; (ii) development of an information management system,
including a database on the current stock of pensioners and introduction of a personal identification
number/individual account; (iii) technical assistance in developing actuarial modeling and in
establishment of a pension analysis unit; (iv) supporting introduction of international accounting
standards for pensions, including provision of training and equipment; and (v) evaluating disability
certification practices and identifying measures to improve them, including if needed, providing
assistance in drafting amendments to legislation and implementing regulations.
Component E. Project Management (US$0.16 million of total project cost):
The Bank will finance additional cost to the SATAC Project PIU for procurement and financial
management under components B, C, and D. This will include salaries, communications, limited office
equipment, supplies, utilities, and audit costs.



Page 36
Annex 3
Structural Reform Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local           Foreign      Total
------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Hospital Restructuring and Financing of Health Care
la. Hospital Consolidation                                2.98           4.86          7.85
lb. Hospital Operations Improvement                       0.13           0.92          1.06
1 c. Component Management                                 0.15           0.02          0.17
2. Support to Private Sector Development
2a. Strategic Privatization of Large-Scale Enterprises    0.06           2.30          2.36
2b. Development of Regulatory Capacity                    0.39           0.75          1.14
2c. Financial Sector Strengthening                        0.23           0.35          0.58
3. Public Sector Reforrn and Public Information
3a. Public Expenditure Management                         0.09           0.20          0.30
3b. Public Procurement                                    0.20           0.34          0.54
3c. Licensing                                             0.05           0.37          0.42
3d. Public Information                                    0.62           0.58          1.20
4. Social Sustainability
4a. Poverty Monitoring and Targeting                      0.15           0.08          0.23
4b. Design and Piloting of Workfare Scheme                0.22           0.42          0.64
4c. Support for Pension Reform                            0.35            1.03         1.39
5. Project Management                                        0.07           0.08         0.15
Total Baseline Cost:                                         5.69          12.31        18.00
Physical Contingencies                                    0.15           0.25          0.40
Price Contingencies                                       0.42           0.98          1.40
Total Project Cost                                           6.26          13.54        19.80



Page 37
Annex 5
Economic and Financial Analysis
Hospital Restructuring Component
Today, there are nearly 12,000 hospital beds in Tbilisi in more than 50 hospitals. This level of capacity is
clearly not sustainable in today's economy as evidenced by the deterioration of physical infrastructure. The
most telling indicator of over capacity is the low occupancy rates which average 40 percent in Tbilisi.
Nationwide, more than half of the hospitals had occupancy rates of less than 10 percent in 1997. These data
can be compared to internationally accepted norms of around 80 percent. The situation is even more dire
than these numbers would suggest given that the average length of stay in Georgian hospitals is around 11
days, or 25 percent higher than OECD averages.
Additional inefficiencies come from the size of the hospitals, which currently range from 40 to 1,100 beds.
Reconfiguring the hospital system so that the average number of beds per hospital is in the range of 200-400
beds has been shown to be most efficient in order to take advantage of economies of scale while maintaining
quality of services.
Assuming only 70 percent occupancy and a five percent increase in patient population growth, the number of
hospital beds could still easily be cut in half, to around 5,500. An additional 20% decrease in bed need
would be expected due to reductions in length of stay coming from changing technology and clinical
practice. The economically optimal number of hospital beds would have been around 3,300 (even fewer if
one uses the standards of an American HMO), but the feasibility of reducing capacity by more than 70
percent was deemed excessive taking into account uncertainties related to the demand for services.
The objective of the component is to reduce the number of hospitals in Tbilisi to a more economically viable
4,400 in twelve hospitals with an average bed size of 300. The project would assist the Government to begin
a hospital restructuring fund (HRF) that is expected to raise at least $56 million from the sale of 27 hospitals
in Tbilisi, of which $43 million will be used on civil works and equipment. The alternatives which this
program were assessed against included:
*  Building totally new facilities at the current level of need (3,300 beds) - this would cost $225
million and is not affordable without extensive external financing;
*  Upgrading all existing facilities (12,000 beds) - the capital cost of this option would also be $225
million, but not would have the additional savings in operational costs coming from reducing
hospital capacity nor raise the revenues expected from the sale of some of the hospitals;
*  Do nothing - while this option would cost nothing in direct financial terms, it would risk the
complete collapse of the health system as the cumulative effect of no maintenance or re-equipment
slowly destroys the infrastructure; and
* Fund the consolidation program entirely from external financing - this option would call upon
external resources, which are limited, when a domestic source of financing is available.
Based on this assessment, the most viable alternative was that chosen by the project (i.e., the hospital
restructuring program).
At the facility level, a detailed financial analysis of one of the hospitals included under the project
(Gudushauri General Hospital) estimated the average annual cost per bed (excluding depreciation) would be
$9,655, assuming that occupancy rates increased to 80 percent and average lengths of stay were reduced by



Page 38
twenty five percent by the end of 2002. According to a recently completed Hospital Financing Study, this is
approximately twice as much as is currently reimbursed per bed today. However, if today's capacity is
adjusted for the real costs, it would be more than twice as high as projected annual cost per bed under the
project (see table below).
Current Hospital Sector      Restructured Hospital Sector
(assume decrease of 50% in
beds and 45 percent in staff)
Current Official Prices      Price assumed to be 1        Price decreases by 1.6
Real Total Costs             Price increases by 4-5 times    Price increases by 2-2.5
The Gudushauri study found that this higher level of reimbursement was financially viable not only if the
assumptions for occupancy rates and ALOS were met, but also if reimbursement prices increased by 10
percent per year starting in 2002 (when full capacity levels were expected to be reached) and if
reimbursement rates reached 90 percent from SMIC, 80 percent from municipalities, and 97 percent from
official user charges. In summary, the program would not incur any additional recurrent costs unless prices
are allowed to increase to reflect the real costs of providing better quality services and even these higher
costs are affordable assuming more reliable financing from state and municipal sources.



Page 39
Annex 6
Structural Reform Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
This section describes the procurement arrangements under the SRSP.
The procurement of civil works, goods and services of the Bank financed components will be
procured in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines. The project activities not financed
by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations. The project elements,
their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al. The
thresholds for each procurement method and Bank prior review (including aggregate values) are
shown in Table B. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the
major procurement actions is presented in Table C. All other procurement information,
including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the
Bank's review process is presented in Table D.



Page 40
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
(including
Expenditure Category                                  Procurement Method                            contingencies)
ICB          NCB           Other      Cons. Svcs.   N.B.F.
1. Works
Republic Children's & Sepsis         4.00                                                                4.00
Center Rehabilitation               (3.34)                                                              (3.34)
Gudushauri                           0.40                                                                0.40
(0.33)                                                             (0.33)
Republican Childrens - Institute #1                 0.21                                                 0.21
(0.17)                                              (0.17)
TB Hospital                                         0.33                                                 0.33
(0.27)                                              (0.27)
Office space rehabilitation                                       0.05a/                                 0.05
(0.04)                                (0.04)
2. Goods
Medical equipment and medical         .30                         0.18"                                  0.48
fumiture                             (.25)                        (0.15)                                (0.40)
Office Equipment including            .52                         0.46"                                  0.98
computers, printers, peripherals     (.43)                       (0.38)                                 (0.81)
Office Fumiture                                                   0.05d'                                 0.05
(0.04)                                (0.04)
Brochures and other Public                                        0.08 s                                 0.08
Information Material                                             (0.06)                                 (0.06)
3. Services
Technical Assistance, training &                                                11.460                   11.46
study tours                                                                    (10.79)                  (10.79)
4. Incremental Project Mgmt.
Costs
Operating Costs for Health PCU                                    0.149'                                 0.14
(0.14)                                (0.14)
Operating Costs for Institution                                   O.11 g'                                0.11
Building PIU                                                     (0.11)                                 (0.11)
5. Recurrent Expenditures                                                                    1.51        1.51
(0.0)       (0.0)
TOTAL:           5.22         0.54          1.07          11.46       1.51        19.80
(4.35)       (0.44)       (0.92)        (10.79)      (0.0)       (16.50)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Figures may not add due to rounding.
Footnotes:
a/ Minor Civil Works, consisting of rehabilitation/renovation of one office space. The threshold for Minor Works is $100,000. One
contract is planned and the value of the contract is $50,000.
b/ Includes readily available medical equipment and medical fumiture of standard specifications will be procured through Intemational
Shopping for contracts under $200,000. Two contracts are planned (average value is $87,500).
C/ Computer equipment will be procured through Intemational Shopping for contracts under $200,000 and National Shopping for
contracts under $50,000. Three IS contracts are expected (average value $137,000). Three NS contracts are planned (average value
$17,000).
dI Office fumiture procured through NS procedures for contracts below $50,000. Four contracts are planned (average value $11,750).
e/ Literature and other materials for public information campaign and public procurement guidelines will be procured through NS
procedures for contracts below $50,000. Several small contracts (thirteen) are expected to be awarded. The average value would be less
than $6,000.
f/ Consulting Services and Training will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines. See Table Al for details.
g' Smallfexpenditures throughout the life of the project based on contracts, invoices, and/or receipts consisting of utilities, communication
fees, banking charges, service/repair contracts, office supplies, and Project audit. The audits for each of the project units is proposed to
be selected on a sole source basis since both units are already working with auditors acceptable to IDA that have been competitively
selected. The aggregate value of these sole source contracts is expected to be $50,000.



Page 41
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                                   Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                    (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                  contingencies)
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                  5.64 a/    0.28b"                           l.24c/                                7.16
(5.64)    (0.28)                           (1.08)                               (7.00)
B. Individuals                                                                   3.08d1                     3.08
(2.81)                    (2.81)
C. Training
Workshops,                                                                       1.22e/                     1.22
Seminars, and Study                                                             (0.98)                     (0.98)
Tours
Total    5.64        0.28                            1.24      4.29                       11.46
(5.64)    (0.28)                           (1.08)    (3.79)                     (10.79)
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS    Quality-based Selection; SFB   Selection under
a Fixed Budget; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other
= Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) or Single Source
N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Figures may not add due to rounding.
Footnotes:
aV QCBS will be used for all contracts unless otherwise specified. It is planned that there will be 16 QCBS contracts (ave. value $0.35 m.).
b/ QBS will only be used for only one highly important assignment, specifically designing and helping to implement a package of several
different human resource related schemes including a severance package for excess personnel, pension plans, and re-training programs. The
assignment is (i) highly complex; (ii) expected to have a large downstream impact; and (iii) could potentially be carried out in several different
ways. The value of the contract is estimated to be $.28 million.
C/ Selection based on consultant qualifications will be used for very small assignments (less than $100,000). It is planned that nineteen contracts
will be awarded based CQ procedures (average value $.06 million).
dj Individuals will be selected for assignments (i) that do not require a team; (ii) no home office support is required; and (iii) and the experience
of the consultant is paramount. Generally, these assignments are less than $50,000. A few key assignments meeting all of the above criteria, but
valued at more than $50,000 will be awarded based on the selection procedure for individuals. In addition to meeting the criteria for individual
selection, these assignments are usually (i) short-term in duration; and (ii) involve consultants that are expensive based on international market
rates. Many local consultants, selected from the private, non-governmental sector will be contracted to form working groups to support the
government agencies in almost each of the respective areas of the project. It is planned that 140 contracts will be awarded. As many are low
value assignments awarded to local consultants, the average value of individual contracts is only $22,000.
e/ Unless a review of training options based on qualifications is available, training (including workshops costs, seminar fees, travel and per diem
costs) will be financed on a sole source basis. The contract will either be with a firm (as when workshops are organized) or with an individual
(as when travel and per diem are required for participation in a seminar or study tour). All TORs would be reviewed by IDA. Contracts valued
at more than $20,000 will also be prior-reviewed by IDA. Because of the number of individuals estimated to participate in overseas seminars
and wMrkshops and the number of participatory workshops that are planned, it is estimated that there will be 76 contracts with an average value
of less than $16,000.



Page 42
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ millions
1. Works
>$500,000        I.C.B.               All / 4.40 million
<$500,000        N.C.B.               First contract/ .21 mil
<$100,000        Minor Works
2. Goods
>$200,000        I.C.B.               All / .82 million
<$200,000        I.S.                 First contract per
implementing agency /
.26 million
<$50,000        N.S.
3. Consultant Services
>-$100,000       QCBS, QBS, CQ        All TORs and contracts
(firms)              exceeding $100,000 /
6.00 million
<$50,000        Individual consultants  All TORs; all contracts
exceeding $50,000 /
.400 million
Sole Source          All TORs including
proposed use of SS and
contracts above
$20,000 / .200 million
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Expenses                        Based on annual      Annual budgets to be
budgets.             approved by IDA.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $12.29 million



Page 43
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$4.99 million) will be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works contracts estimated to cost
more than $500,000 will be contracted according to ICB procedures. There are two contracts for
which ICB will apply. The first is a fairly large rehabilitation of the Republican Children's Hospital
(estimated value $4.0 million). The second contract is for a minor rehabilitation of theGudushauri
General Hospital (estimated value $.40 million). This last rehabilitation will be packaged together
with the major rehabilitation of the same hospital currently being tendered under the Georgia Health
Project (CR2852-0). At the time of SRS project appraisal, firms were preparing their pre-
qualification proposals. The additional scope of work is not expected to change substantively the
nature or estimated value of on-going process. Also, the packaging of these two works together will
ensure the cost-effective and efficient use resources in terms of time and funding. Therefore, the
aggregate value for ICB under the SRS is expected to be $4.40 million. The Bank's standard bidding
documents for small works will be used.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). All civil works contracts estimated to be above
US$100,000 and under $500,000 equivalent will be procured through NCB procedures up to an
aggregate of US$540,000.  The standard bidding documents of the Bank's ECA region for
procurement of NCB will be used accordingly. Two minor rehabilitation of health facilities (merger
of first Institute into the Republican Children's hospital and the merger of the TB Institute into the TB
Hospital) will be procured using NCB procedures.
(c) Minor Civil Works (MCW). One civil works contract for a minor office space
rehabilitation, with an estimated value of US$50,000, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of three quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a description of the scope of work,
including basic specifications, the expected completion date, a form of contract acceptable to the
Bank, and the relevant drawings if applicable.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approximately US$1.58 million) consisting of basic medical equipment for hospitals;
computers and related software, office and training equipment, promotion materials and public
procurement guidelines will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project objectives, in
package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will
be followed:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts above
US$200,000 equivalent for a total amount of US$.82 million (52% of total goods). These goods will
consist of medical equipment/medical furniture and information technology equipment and software.
The Bank's standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and for the procurement of
information systems will apply.
(b) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf
goods (medical equipment and information technology equipment and software) of standard
specifications estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$.59 million (37% of total goods). These procedures will require quotations from at
least (3) three suppliers from two different countries.
(c) National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for contracts valued under US$50,000
up to an aggregate amount of US$.17 million (11% of total goods) consisting of goods ordinarily
available in the country (furniture, computers, printing of brochures and guidebooks). Comparison of



Page 44
price quotations obtained from at least (3) three suppliers to assure competitive prices will be
required.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (US$10.24 million in technical assistance and US$1.22
million in training assignments is required for the Project) will be awarded following the World
Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. To the extent possible, contracts have
been packaged to include a combination of related skills and services and increase competition. The
following methods of procurement will be followed:
(a) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant
services and training contracts up to and aggregate amount of US$5.64 million equivalent. It is
planned that 16 contracts following QCBS procedures will be awarded. The average value of each
contract is $352,500.
(b) Quality Based Selection (QBS) is planned to be used for only assignment, of a highly
critical nature. Specifically the assignment would be responsible for designing and helping to
implement a package of sensitive human resource-related initiatives, including the development of
severance packages for excess medical personnel, pension options, and re-retraining programs. The
total value of the assignment is estimated to be $280,000.
(c) Selection based on Consultant Firm's Qualifications (CQ). Selection based on
consultant qualifications will be used for very small assignments (less than $100,000). Estimated
amount of total contracts is $1.24 million.
(d) Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedures will be used for small
assignments of short term duration throughout the life of the project. Estimate amount of total
contracts is US$3.08 million.
(e) Single Source procedures will only be used for the direct costs associated with the
holding of workshops, attending in-country and external seminars, and participation in study tours.
Due to its capacity building nature, the project intends to focus a significant amount of resources to
these types of activity. In aggregate, $1,215,200 of single source selection for training-related
activities is planned. Additionally, the contracts for auditing services for both project units will be
awarded on a sole source basis since both units currently have contracts with auditors acceptable to
the Bank previously selected on a competitive basis. The aggregate value of the audited contracts is
estimated to be $50,000.
4. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the June 16, 1999 issue of
Development Business and will be updated annually for all outstanding ICB procurement thereafter.
For consultants' contracts above US$200,000 a Specific Procurement Notices/Request for
Expression of Interest will be advertised in Development Business (in the English Language) and in
a major local newspaper (in the national language). Civil Works contracts procured by ICB will be
advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper; NCB Civil Works will be
advertised in a national newspaper.
5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the
proposed procurement plan (Table C) for the project will be reviewed by the respective PCUs, and



Page 45
the Bank will be advised of any revisions for its review in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Annex 1 of the Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and
services for the project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which
will be modified as appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review: (a) Civil Works: Prior review all ICB tenders and the first NCB tender,
including a review of bidding documents, evaluation report and recommendation for contract award,
and the contract will be conducted. (b) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including
review of evaluation, recommendation of award and contract will be conducted for all ICB
procedures and the first contract for International Shopping (for each implementing agency)
regardless of their value. (c) Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all consulting and training
assignments will be subject to prior Bank review. Request for Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and
condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be prior
reviewed by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above $50,000 and firms above
$100,000. Contracts for training assignments above $20,000 will be subject to prior review.
After award of contract. should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions
of a contract resulting in an increase above 15% of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the
right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting
services).
Ex-post review: All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to Bank ex-post review. All
documentation, including, but not limited to: TOR, bidding documents or request-for-proposals, bids
or proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following award of contract
including Bank no objections, contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until
at least two years following the close of the Project. During Bank supervision missions, not less than
1 in 10 tenders not subject to Bank prior review will be examined ex-post until a period of satisfactory
compliance can be shown in which case the number of tenders examined may be increased to not less
than 1 in 20.
6. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
For contracts to be awarded on the basis of ICB (both Civil Works and Goods), the Borrower
may, with the agreement of the Bank, grant a margin of preference in accordance with Section II of
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January
and August 1996 and January 1999.



Page 46
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed credit would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table D. It is
expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of 2.5 years, which includes
six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no
standard disbursement profile for Georgia, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Georgia. The
Project Completion Date is estimated to be September 30, 2001 and the Closing Date is
estimated to be March 31, 2002.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works for all contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent
each; (b) goods costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each contract; (c) services contracts for (i)
individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; and (d) training and study for less than $20,000 equivalent each; and (e)
implementation agencies incremental operating costs. Disbursements against goods and services
exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective procurement
guidelines. SOEs will be certified locally by the respective PCU. Related documentation in support
of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the respective PCU for at least one
year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made.
This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions.
If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in excess
of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the Bank will have
the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower
has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other
eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts - one for Part A of the Project being
implemented by the Health PCU and one for all other Parts of the Project being implemented by the
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance PIU -- in US dollars in a commercial bank(s), acceptable
to the Bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of both
Special Accounts will be limited to US$400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under
the credit (all Parts) have reached US$1.5 million, the initial allocations of both Special Accounts
may be increased up to an authorized allocation of $800,000 by submitting the relevant Application
for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized
allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the respective PCUs at least every
three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
The Borrower will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the Bank
under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial
statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system has been
established at each PCU. The Project Financial and Accounting Officer of each PCU will maintain
consolidated accounts for the project and will prepare quarterly financial reports as part of PMRs.
The PCUs have acquired experience in maintaining and consolidating accounts through previously
Bank-financed credits and grants. The accounts will be maintained for all project funds, i.e. credit
funds (see Annex 7 for details of financial management arrangements).



Page 47
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1.Cvil Works                                 $3,800,000      84 %of expenditures
2a. Goods -Part A                                $560,000       100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
2b. Goods - Parts B, C, D, E                     $620,000       100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3a. Consultant Services, Training and Study     $2,280,000      100% of foreign
Tours - Part A                                              expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
3b. Consultant Services, Training - Part C.4     $900,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
3b. Consultant Services, Training and Study     $6,620,000      100% of foreign
Tours - Parts B, C 1-3, D, E                                expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
4a. Incremental Operating Expenses of the        $110,000       100%
Health Project Coordination Unit
4b. Incremental Operating Expenses of the        $90,000        100%
SATAC Project Implementation Unit
5a. Unallocated - Part A                         $760,000
-5a. Unallocated - Parts B, C, D, E               $760,000
l-X u-g M,  ,g--ge ~~~~"



Brief statement
Preliminary capacity assessments for both project implementing units have been completed. The capacity of both units is basically sound, although both of them require additional technical assistance
and training
in the area of civil works procurement and management. This technical assistance and training is planned to be provided at the earliest stage of project approval. The Health PCU already has an
experienced construction design and supervision firm assisting them with a civil works tender estimated to value more than $7.2 million. Their assistance will include participation in the pre-
qualification of firms, development of the bidding documents, contract finalization and management. Additional assistance of similar nature is envisaged for the SRSP. Also, funds have been
allocated participation in the Goods and Works training programs at the ILO center in Turin, Italy.
Country Procurement Assessmcnt Report or                                        Arc the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status                                       Yes        No  X
A         CPAR for the Georgia has not been completed. For this Project, the Govempment will
follow  the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described in this document and in the
Estimated date of Project   Estimated date of      Indicate if thereisprocurementsubjectto  DomesticPreference   Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable
Launch Workshop             publication of General  mandatory SPN in Development Business for Goods
Procurement Notice
8199                                               Yes x     No                          Yes x    No           Yes   X       No
June 16,1999
Retroactive funancing                                                t
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory review
thresholds by RPA are anticipatedr  The PCUs of the Borrower will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be
Updated semi-annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the PCU and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This infoeation will include: revised
cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance
with aggregate limits (within 1 5%/) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS) consisting of an accounting system capable of producing project management
reports and Microsoft Project for maintaining procurement schedulcs will help the PCUs monitor all procurement infortnation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: None,
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project: Structural Reform Support Project       Name: C. P. Ranganathan
Following Project approval, G. Novotny will be the PAS for the Health Component of the Project.
Expla'in briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The Field Office will provide non-fiduciary procurement support to the project including answering inquiries about general Bank
procurement procedures, status of planned packages, how to access standard bank documents and guidelines, etc.



Page 49
Annex 7
Georgia: Structural Reform Support Project
Financial Management
General:
A review of Financial Management System was undertaken as a result of a recent mission to Georgia
from May 3rd through May 8t 1999 to (a) assess the Project's capacity and readiness for the implementation
of LACI; (b) review the presence of the necessary elements for sound Project financial management system
such as internal controls, Project accounting, Project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c) prepare a time-
bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve Project Management Report
(PMR)-based disbursement that would assist the Project to move towards LACI.
Implementation Responsibilities:
The Project would be implemented by two separate units: (a) the Health Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) under Ministry of Health which will take responsibility for the largest component, i.e. Hospital
Restructuring; and (b) the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC) Project
Implementing Unit (PIU) under the Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations, which will manage
the three remaining components (Private Sector Development and Financial Sector; Public Sector
Reform/Information; and Social Sustainability).
Assessment of SA TAC PIU:
PIU Office Space:
The Project intends to use the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) facility. The present PIU
was set up under the Institutional Building Credit in 1994 as well as SATAC I. It is presently being used for
the ongoing IDF grants for Public Procurement and the Georgia Investment Center. The main observations
are as follows:
PIU Staffing:
The PIU has six full time positions as follows:
(i)    Head PIU;
(ii)   Accounting Officer;
(iii)   Disbursement Specialist;
(iv)   Procurement Specialist;
(v)   Interpreter/Secretary; and
(vi)   Driver.
Accountant:
- To further strengthen the existing financial capacity of the PIU, arrangements have been made to
recruit a new accountant. Advertisements have already been placed in the local newspapers for this position.
Funds have also been allocated for the training of the present as well as the new accountant (if necessary) in
International Accounting Standards.



Page 50
PIUBudgetfor equipment, salaries and auditors:
Although the SATAC PIU is fully equipped with adequate furniture and equipment, additional
$150,000 has been allocated for staff salaries, office equipment, office supplies, utilities, accounting
software, accounting training, and the audit services. The budget adequately covers the entire period of
Project implementation.
Accounting Software System:
The PIU staff has been involved in managing Project finances for several years, but no formal
accounting software was ever used. The need to select and purchase an appropriate software was, therefore,
discussed with the PIU Director and the accountant. Names of various software packages were also provided
to the PIU Director who will share them with the new accountant when hired. It is expected that the PIU will
purchase 'Fundware' accounting software.
Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
The SATAC PIU will be responsible (for three components) to ensure that the financial statements,
Special Account, and statements of expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
A French auditing firm has already been given 'no objection' (April 23, 1999) to carry outPIU's audit
for the year ending 1998. Since there is no representation of any of the big-five accounting firms in Georgia,
documentation were obtained which shows that this audit firm is a member of IFAC and has been doing
similar work for other World Bank Projects in other countries also. It is expected that the PIU will similarly
make necessary arrangements to identify the auditors for SRS Project before effectiveness.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs against which disbursements
have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs which will be included in the audit report
accompanying the financial statements. The audited financial statements of the special accounts, andSOEs
of the preceding fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against
certified statement of expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of
Project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the Project implementing entities have maintained
adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the
Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Assessment of Health Component PCU:
The Health PCU will be responsible for the implementation of the Hospital Restructuring component.
This PCU was established in 1995 and has, over the years, gained considerable experience in carrying out
procurement of medical equipment, hospital civil works, and technical assistance for health specialists such
as hospital architects and health planners. The main functions of the Health PCU will be to: (a) support and
oversee all program implementation related to the Hospital Restructuring component, including quality
assurance; (b) produce management reports to the Bank for the component; and (c) ensure that Bank
guidelines for financial and procedures are followed.



Page 51
PCU Office Space:
The Project intends to use the existing health PCU facility of an ongoing Project. This PCU is fully
equipped with necessary furniture and equipment including four computers, two printers, and fax machines
etc.
PCU Stafjing:
The PCU has eight full time staff as follows:
(i)    Head PCU;
(ii)   Financial Officer;
(iii)   Financial Assistant;
(iv)   Procurement Officer;
(v)    Technical Assistance & Training Officer;
(vi)   Planning & Monitoring Officer;
(vii)  Administrative Assistant; and
(viii)  Logistic/Driver.
Auditing Arrangements:
An audit firm acceptable to the Bank has already been selected on a competitive basis to carryout the
audit (for the Health Project) for the year ending 1998. It was agreed that similar arrangements will be
made, before effectiveness, in identifying and retaining an auditor for the Health Component of SRS
Project also.
TA for Financial Management support:
For each, PCU and PIU, a Project financial and accounting program will be developed with support
from the Bank FMS as well as an external consultant. Given the Project size, this will be kept as simple as
possible, given the needs for Project oversight and preparation of Project documentation such as PMRs.
The systems to be designed should have, an accounting and internal control systems with the capacity to
record and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the Project. The systems will: (a)
reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the Project; and (b) provide
reliable financial information for managing and monitoring Project activities. The accounting systems will
be classified by component; they will reflect the sources of funds, and will be broken down into different
types of expenditures for the Project. Furthermore, they will provide information on the receipt and use of
funds and will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given
time. The system will be capable of providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the
outputs of the Project. Funds have been allocated for this activity.
Special Accounts:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, both the PCU and the PIU will independently establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts - one for Part A of the
Project being implemented by the Health PCU and one for all other Parts of the Project being implemented
by the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance PIU -- in US dollars in a commercial bank(s), acceptable
to the-Bank. During the early stage of the Project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of both Special
Accounts will be limited-to US$400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit (all
Parts) have reached $1.5 million equivalent, the initial allocations of both Special Accounts may be increased
up to an authorized allocation of $800,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted by the respective PCU/PIU at least every three months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.



Page 52
Financial Reporting:
For both, PCU and PIU, it was agreed that the disbursements will start using traditional disbursement
methods - Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), reimbursements, direct payment, etc. After PCU and PIU
have gained experience with the financial management system and the reporting underPMRs, and provided
that a financial management expert has reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, the Project would move
to PMR-based disbursements. Both PCU and PIU will be responsible for preparing Project Management
Reports (PMR) on a quarterly basis, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter. The PMRs will be produced which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and Projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the period covered by said report and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out
of the proceeds of the loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation
targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Operational Manuals:
Neither of the two implementing units had any implementing/operational manual. It was therefore,
agreed that Project Operational Manuals (POM) would be prepared by the accountant of each implementing
unit that would include: (a) the financial management system proposed under the Project, with special
emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role of the financial
management systems in Project management and implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required
for Project management, the format for and content of Project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing
arrangements that will be used during Project implementation. It is expected that by end December 1999the
final POM will be ready, satisfactory the Bank.
Bank FMS staffing and supervision:
It was also agreed that during Project life, a financial specialist would take part in supervision
missions to monitor the Financial Management (FM) arrangements of both the PCU and PIU and ensure
compliance with ongoing FM covenants. It was further agreed that a financial specialist would have to
return prior to effectiveness to monitor performance on the FM action plan. The FM procedures and
assessment of the financial staff would be included in the POM.
Accounting software and assessment of Y2K risks:
Bank database of the financial accounting software packages was provided to both the PCU and PIU
directors. It was explained that these are typically available off-the-shelf in many countries and range in cost
from around US$800-$15,000, The Project size suggests that a figure of around US$2,000 would be
adequate in this instance. It is expected that the Health component PCU may proceed with purchasing
'PeachTree' software.
The issue of Y2K risks was also discussed with the Heads of the PCU and PIU. Assurance was
provided that new hardware and software to be purchased under the Project will be Y2K compatible. In this
regard, appropriate contractual provisions will be made to ensure compatibility.



Page 53
Conclusion:
The Project does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, an Action Plan is presented below which requires both the PCU and PIU to design and implement
satisfactory financial management systems to address the above issues. Once this time-bound Action Plan is
carried out successfully, it is believed that the Project will, by then, have developed an accounting system
that will be able to produce the required level of financial management reports in a timely fashion.
Action Plan for both PCU and PIU:
1    Consultant acceptable to the Bank to be appointed to assist in the  May 31, 1999
establishment of the Project's financial management
arrangements
2    Accountant acceptable to the Bank to be recruited to the SATAC  May 31, 1999
PIU
3    Define accounting software requirements including the format for June 15, 1999
the Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank
4    Ms. Lali Bakhutashvili (present accountant), Mr. Demna and Ms.  June 14, 1999
Natia to attend accounting course on IAS, together with the new
accountant, if required
5    Complete evaluation of alternative accounting software solutions  June 28, 1999
and purchase accounting software acceptable to the Bank
6    Open Special Accounts and Project Accounts               July 19, 1999
7    Present shortlist of Project auditors acceptable to the Bank (or    July 19, 1999
justification for sole sourcing existing auditor)
8    Accounting software system to be installed, tested and capable of July 19, 1999
producing Project Management Reports 1A and 1F
9    Visit by Bank staff to confirm adequacy of financial management July 19, 1999
arrangements prior to effectiveness
10   Effectiveness                                            September, 1999
11   Produce full Project Management Reports (and quarterly   December 31, 1999
thereafter)
12   Complete Financial Management Manuals (for inclusion into the  December 31, 1999
Project Operational Manual)
13   Consider a move to PMR-based disbursements               June 30, 2000
For both the PCU and the PIU, disbursements will start using traditional methods - Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) reimbursements, direct payment, etc. After PCU and the PIU have gained experience
with the financial management systems and reporting under of the PMRs, and provided that the are found to
be satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower and the Bank will consider moving to PMR-based disbursements.



Page 54
Annex 8
Structural Reform Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$80,000              $63,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         3                     3
First Bank mission (identification)            03/16/1999           06/22/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    04/18/1999           06/22/1999
Negotiations                                   05/25/1999           06/28/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/30/1999           09/30/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Health, Ministry of State Property Management, Ministry of Energy
and Fuel, Ministry of Communications, Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission,
National Bank of Georgia, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Justice, Public Information Center,
Ministry of Social Security, Labor and Employment, State Pension Fund
Preparation assistance: SATAC I and SATAC II
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Cyril Muller                              Team Leader
Laura Rose                                  Health
Jonathan Walters                              Energy
Leila Zlaoui                              Economics
Anna Akhalkatsi                             Economics
Martin Slough                            Financial Sector
Amitabha Mukherjee                     Public Sector Management
Elene Imnadze                        Public Sector Management
Ana Revenga                             Social Assistance
Aleksandra Posarac                             Pensions
Alexander Preker                           Peer Reviewer
Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz                      Peer Reviewer
Richard James                         Financial Management
C.P. Ranganathan                       Procurement Assessment
Kari Hurt                         Operations/Implementation
Cheryl Martin                       Operations/Implementation
Frances Rosenthal                     Operations/Implementation



Page 55
Annex 9
Structural Reform Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Tbilisi Hospital Masterplan by Kaiser Pernanente International
Perceptions of Health Reform: A Qualitative Stakeholder Analysis of the Progress of
Health Reform in Georgia, 1997-1998 by Catherine Silansky
A Communications Plan for Hospital Restructuring by Ken Jaques
Social-economical Results of Privatization Process of Health Care Facilities,
1996-1997 by L. Svanidze
Hospital Financing Study by Curatio International Foundation
Tbilisi Hospital Consolidation and Phasing Plan, Human Resources Component by Alf Kirk
Preliminary Legal Analysis of Hospital Restructuring by Georgia Consulting Group
Report of Focus Groups on Hospital Reform, by Georgian Opinion Research
Business International
Detailed Description of Workfare Scheme and Likely Suitability in the Georgia Context
*Including electronic files.



ANNEX 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
GE-PE-8417      1995   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               MUNICIPAL INFRA. REH                      0.00       18.00        0.00         1.02         2.65        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-39892     1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             TRANSPORT                                 0.00       12.00        0.00           .09         .88        0.00      HS          S
GE-PE-8414      1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             HEALTH                                    0.00       14.00        0.00         9.46         8.19        0.00      U           U
GE-PE-44830     1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             OIL INSTITUTION BLDG                      0.00        1.40        0.00           .56         .23        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-8415      1997   GOVT. OF GEORGIA                  AGRICULTURE DEVELOP.                      0.00       15.00        0.00         6.73        -3.52        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-35784     1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             POWER REHAB.                              0. 00      52.30        0.00         2 70        -3.17        0.00       U          S
GE-PE-55573     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             CULTURAL HERITAGE                         0.00        4.49        0.00         4.23         1.22        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-51034     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             SATAC II                                  0.00        5.00        0.00         1.50         1.38        0.00       s          S
GE-PE-39929     1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                       0.00       20.00        0.00        17.30         5.39        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-50910     1998   GEORGIA                           MUNICIPAL DEV.                            0 .00      20.90        0.00        18.61         7.74        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-8416      1999   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA             ENTERPRISE REHABIL.                       0.00       15.00        0.00        14.90         0.00        0.00
GE-PE-56514     1999   GEORGIA                           TRNSPT MIN RESTRUCT.                      0.00        2.30        0.00         2.44         1.54        0.00       S          S
GE-PE-50911     1999   REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA               INTEG. COASTAL MGT                        0. 00       4.40        0.00         4 .34         .12        0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                              0.00      184.79        0.00        83.88        22.65        0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  97.44              213.56               311.00
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 184.79              209.90               394.69
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               83.88                  .01               83.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNEX 11
Georgia at a glance                                                               10/1/98
Europe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Georgia      Asia  income        Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        S.4      476      2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    840      2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       4.5     1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Popuiation (%)                                        -0.2       0.2       1.2 2                      i
Labor force (K)                                      -0.1       0.5       113     GNP                            pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita         \   /         enrollment
Poverty (% of population be lownational poverfty ine)  30
Urban population (% of to/a/population)                58        87        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73         69       69
Inrfant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              18        25        36
Child mainutrition (% of children under 5)              ..         .                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..        ..        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 16+)                    1          ,       19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschw-age population)     86         92      111               Georgia
Male                                                                    116               Lower-middle-income group
Fernale                                                         ..      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (USS billions)                             ..       ..       4.6       5.2
Gross cromestic investmentGDP                  ..    29.9        6.0       6.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..       ..      11.2      11.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                            29.8      -1.8      -4.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..       2.3       1.9                       T
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       ..      -9.1    -10.2      Domestic        '\
Interest payments/GDP                         ..         ..      1.4       0.8                        -c   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..       ..      30.1      29.6     Savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                       ..       ..      15.3      13.9
Present value of debtGDP                       ..        .      23.9      19.1
Present value of debt/exports                   -              213.4    208.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..       ,.    10.5       10.9       7.8        -     Georgia
GNP per capita                                 .      12.7      12.8       8.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..    17.8       18.4      12.2        ::____:_,_-___:.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          s
Agriculture                                    ..    26.8       33.4      31.6
Industry                                       ..    37.0       25.1      23.4      7
Manufacturing                                ..    27.8        18.8     17.5 o
Services                                       ..    36.2       41.5      45.0                -            95   95   97
Private consumption                            ..    57.4       92.7      95.2    -150
General government consumption                 ..    12.8        9.1       9.0                     G
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      18.9      22.7                     GD1          GDP
197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       3.0       3.5    45
Industry                                       ..       ..       2.0       2.0    30
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       2.0       2.0    is
Services                                       .        ..      16.8      17.2     ol                 l      } 
Private consumption                            ..       ..       2.2      15.4            92   93   94           96S3   97
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..      40.0      10.9   -15
Gross domestic investment                                       57.0      90.9   -30
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..       9.7      39.2                  Exports    eImports
Gross national product                        4.4    -16.5      12.7      11.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976      1986       1996      1997       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              20,000
Consumer prces                                     ..      ..       39.4       7.1    15,000
Implicit GDP deflator                            0.5      6.1       40.2       7.1      10.000
Government finance                                                                      5,000
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        0
Current revenue                                    ..      ..        8.1       9.9                92   93   94   95   So   97
Current budget balance                             ..      ..       -4.6       -3.5              -     GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -5.8       -4.6
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       ..        463       559      1000 -
Black metal                                     ..        ..        80       101          I
Tea                                              .         ..       19         24      790 -
Manufactures                                                       231       236
Total imports (cif)                               ..        ..       768       947       500 -
Food                                             . .   213  154  2                                1idH
Fuel and energy                                                    184       196
Capital goods                                    ..       ..       129       330         OL
i  1 92   93   94   99   99   97
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..      ..  ,       .         ..                   Exports      9 Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..      ..          .._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                                      ___
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..       ..        511       623       0
Imports of goods and services                      .                 867     1.192           9     2 9                 *    l
Resource balance                                                   8-356      -569      -10
Net income                                         ..      ..        -62        34
Net current transfers                             ..       ..        141       188      -20-
Current account balance                           ..       ..       -418      -535     I30
Financing items (net)                             ..       ..        339       474
Changes in net reserves                                     ..        79        61    |
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..        159       175
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                           ..   1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..        ..     1,378     1,550
IBRD                                            ..       ..          0         0                        F: 10
IDA                                             ..       ..        157       212                                B:157
Total debt service                                ..        ..        49        53
IBRD                                            ..         ..                                                          C96
IDA                                             ..        .          1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..       ..        141        84                                        D:13
Official creditors                              ..       ..        186       192
Private creditors                               ..       ..          0         0
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..         54       189            E: 9s5
Portfolio equity                                ..       ..          0         0
WoWd Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..         91       155      A-IBRD                         E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..       ..         76        64    |  - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            ..       ..          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       ..       ..         76        64    1_                             _
Interest payments                               ..       ..          1         1
Net transfers                                            ..         76        63
Development Economics                                                                                                       10/1/98



ATTACHMENT 1
Statement of Intent
Implementation of a Hospital Restructuring Program in Georgia
Background:
The excess supply of hospitals that Georgia inherited from the Soviet Union is no longer
sustainable or desirable in Georgia today. Based on norms much higher than those in
OECD countries, Georgia is now facing a stock of hospitals approximately three times
larger than what needed, even when we consider the unique geography and epidemiology
of the country. Because of lack of funds, the maintenance of the hospitals has
deteriorated, the salaries of staff are extremely low, and quality of care has suffered.
The 1996 health reform strategy identified excess capacity as one of the main issues and
proposed a three-pronged approach: changing the incentives to providers with a new
payment system; instituting a licensing and accreditation system; and privatizing a large
portion of the sector. Only recently have we completed the preparation of a
comprehensive privatization strategy for hospitals.
The Hospital Master Plan
To prioritize the facilities that should remain under public ownership, we undertook at
transparent process whereby each hospital passed through a series of screens. Hospitals
which were unsafe, inaccessible, and of inadequate capacity were removed from
consideration. Eventually, we identified around twelve hospitals in Tbilisi and about
fifty-seven in the rest of the country that will remain in the public sector. While we are
committed to the participation of the private sector in the provision of health services, we
believe it is in the public interest to maintain some hospitals under public ownership,
particularly to ensure adequate access for the poor and coverage of services that might
otherwise not be supplied. The result of the work is summarized in the Hospital Master
Plan that we broadly endorse.
In particular, we endorse the recommendations concerning:
* identification of hospitals to remain in the public sector, their size and functions;
* identification of hospitals that should be closed and sold as real estate;
* the total number of beds that should result from program implementation;
* the phased program of implementation of sales and refurbishment;
* need for improved governance and autonomous financial management;



*  re-training, improved pay and work conditions to ensure that quality staff can be
retained; and
*  staff cuts will be necessary, but the redundancy programs will be designed to keep
quality staff while providing fair compensation have been identified to those that will
be laid off.
While the hospitals will be owned by the state, we intend to reform the governance and
organization of these hospitals. The primary principles of this reorganization include: (i)
selecting hospital directors through competitive and open process; ii) granting decision
rights to managers; iii) exposing the facilities to market forces through a competitive
enviromnent; iv) improving accountability to stakeholders; and v) defining and
subsidizing social functions.
Financing of the Program
Having decided which hospitals would remain in the public sector and which will be sold,
we have prepared a plan whereby the cost of hospital closures and upgrading of the
remaining twelve facilities would be financed from the proceeds from the privatization of
hospitals which would go into a hospital restructuring fund (HRF). The program has
been divided into three stages, with the first stage estimated to take two and half years
and result in no fewer than ten hospitals being privatized and their services being merged
into four of the twelve that will remain in operation.
For the process of privatization of facilities that will no longer serve as hospitals to
generate adequate financing to support the restructuring of those facilities that will remain
as well as the related human resources prograrns, the Government agrees to:
* clearly define all assets to be privatized;
X sell all assets as real estate and not as hospitals;
follow a transparent, competitive and non-preferential sales' method (including
allowing foreign investors to participate);
* MSPM transaction fees not to exceed existing legal thresholds;
present a final list of facilities to be offered for sale under phase 1 of the program that
has an assessed value of at least $18 million (as defined in the Hospital Master Plan);
and
* create an account with the Treasury into which 100% of privatization and long-term
lease proceeds (after fees) of health institutions will be deposited'.
The revenues for the HRF will come from the sale or lease of hospitals, other health institutions and
corresponding land currently owned by the Government of Georgia. The process of selling or leasing these
facilities will be the primary responsibility of the MoSPM, with significant input from the HRF. For its
part, the MoSPM will receive its normal fee of 7% of the sale price. In addition, any agents contracted by
the HRF to assist with the sale may receive up to 5 percent of the sale price. No less than 88 percent of the
proceeds from the sale will be deposited into a special account in the Treasury which is earmarked for
implementing the hospital rationalization program. The sale or lease of buildings will be free and open,
with no preference given to current occupants. There will be no restrictions on the use of the buildings



Establishment of the Hospital Restructuring Fund (HRF)
The HRF will be the primary vehicle for carrying out the program of hospital
restructuring. The HRF will be governed by a Board comprising members of the
following institutions: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State Property
Management, the Ministry of Finance, representatives of labor unions and associations of
health care providers, and the Municipality of Tbilisi. The Fund will be formally
established with an approved operational manual no later than February 1, 2000.
The following are the eligible expenditures of the HRF:
*  Capital investment. The HRF will finance needed civil works and medical
equipment for the remaining public facilities in order to improve the quality of
care and prevent further deterioration of the capital stock.
*  Fair staff compensation. The contribution of all employees in the health sector is
highly valued. The HRF will finance the payment of fair compensation packages
for the staff that will be laid off during the consolidation and sales of hospitals
according to the optimization plan.
*  Human resources programs. The human resource policies must look towards the
future needs of the system and make sure that remaining staff are adequately
trained. Initially, the project will focus on training the management team in the
four hospitals to be refurbished in the first phase.
*  Public information. The public and health care providers are entitled to know
what is happening in the health care system and why. In addition, their
contributions and support will be essential to the success of the program. The
HRF will work with a firm selected competitively to carry out a public
relations/communications program during the life of the program.
*  Monitoring and evaluation and other special studies: Monitoring and evaluating
the desired impact of the program will be an important function of the HRF. The
HRF can also be used to finance special studies that are deemed appropriate by
the Board, such as the feasibility of starting a supplementary pension scheme for
health care providers or alternative risk pooling mechanisms.
*  Operating cost of the HRF. The costs of establishing the HRF will be funded
under the Structural Reform Support project. These include hiring staff and
consultants, preparation of a operational manual, purchase of office equipment
and furniture. At the end of the project, the operating costs of the HRF will be
once sold. While the HRF will be responsible for paying all wage arrears of staff in privatized hospitals
prior to closure, they will not incur other liabilities of the hospitals.



financed from the proceeds of the facility sales. The HRF will undergo annual
audits.
Timetable
By July 1, 1999, a working group empowered with the preparation of the charter of HRF
and its operational manual will be appointed by the President of Georgia.
By August 1, 1999, the working group will have adopted its work program, including
schedules for preparation and implementation of: (i) a new governance structure for
publicly-owned hospitals; (ii) human resource prograns; and (iii) public information
campaigns.
By October 1, 1999, public information programs will have been approved by the
working group.
By December 1, 1999, the working group will have submitted to the President a draft
charter and operational manual for HRF.
By December 1, 1999, the working group will have finalized: (i) options for redundancy
programs; (ii) information memorandum for the first facility to be offered for sale; (iii) a
proposal for governance structure of hospitals.
By January 1, 2000, HRF will be established as a legal entity and its charter adopted.
By February 1, 2000, HRF will have adopted its operational manual.



ATTACHMENT 2
Table 1:     Hospitals to remain in the public sector and
planned number of beds
Hospital                              # of Beds
Zone 1
Republican Children's Hospital        552
Gudushauri General Hospital            196
Psychiatric Hospital                  500
City Clinic #4                        300
Research Institute of Therapy          150
Zone 2
Republican Central Hospital           472
Sepsis Center                         150
TB Hospital                           250
Oncology Scientific Center            300
Zone 3
Hospital Policlinic #5                245
City Clinic # 1                       400
Republican Ophthalmology Center        120
Total                                           3635



Attachment 3
Tbilisi Hospital Master Plan by Zone                                                                                       Page I of 3
(Preliminary Plan - Names and Phasing of Hospitals subject to change)
Facilities Remaining in Public Domain   Physical information   Designed  Utilized                            Beds consolidated            beds      Cost of    building   construction  equipment building and              Value of re
(Zone I)                     Yr.   ImVsiz    Total      beds       beds                    from:(facility name)         incorp   remodel  infrastruct            cost          cost       equipmentvacated
Yr     o/iebuilding                      o  e                                        -ae                   nrsrc             ot            cs          qimn
built area m2  area m2                            beds                                       -aure
Secondary Care Centers
Republic Childen's Central Clinical Hospital  1974  28,750    27,794         620    137.28         552_
(Facility will include outpatient services)
Total Phase one                                                                                                                                         9          1 g0ann  .,  |  . 
Total phase two                                                              _   t                                                                                                       t _  _
Total phase three                                                                                                  _1                                1,250,000      990,300       2,240,300     2,0S0,000      4,320,300             J,633,800
Total all phases                                                             60         17        5045                                              24             ,5,0           ,9~0          ,0.0          2$1521,1I
Gudushauri General Hospital                   1989  75,000    18,080         240      27.22        196
1    _                  I                             200
Maternity Home#5                              1988  25,920    11,512         250      89.47        200  _                                 _                                   _ _  _  _
City clinic 4 4                               1960  63,000    19,460         360      64.80       300  _                                           _            _             _              _                     .                  _
Total secondary Beds in Zone I                    I           _             1,470           |   1,260                                              _                          _              _ T         1              T
Total existing beds needed without Psych/ilUrology/Narc/Ophthalin ZoneI                           816                              444  Additional projected bedsfor Secondary care |
Specialty Care                                                        __I
Psychiatric Hospital                          1972              7 20,814      500    15922         500
Total Specialty Care                        I500 I         I         I                                         _____I soo |   ___________
Total Zone 1                                      1                       1,970 |_|_1,760                 __________



Attachment 3
Tbilisi Hospital Master Plan by Zone
(Preliminary Plan - Names and Phasing of Hospitals subject to change)                                                                   Page 2 of 3
iRecomm                                                          ('f ost of
Facilities Remaining in Pubtlic Domain   Physical information   Designed  Utilized   ended             Beds consolidated         beds      Cost of   remaining        Total        Total         Total         Value of real
(Zone 2)                   Yr.  Lot/size bu          beds      beds   revliiednof     from:(facility name)       incorp   remodel    ilding  construction               equipment             estate vacated
built ares m2 area m2                          beds                                                            ure
Secondary Care Centers
Republic Central Clinical Hospital         1968  97,500   59,778        1,100    132.46      472
(Facility will includes outpatient services)
Total Phase one_                                         _5 34                                                                                 1,775,000 139655,501    4,52,8       1,475,000     6,155,520          16,3 96
Cittyclinlic  2                    so 591   o5 0J                ._                                                  2,018,0.
Total phase two                             1980  16,000    7,720        140021.92           1200
n_Se f C t1 6 , 0 ,65 6 3 2   A5ts f  roduc tivotmedrain |  300  1W.0_0_11                                                      2,714,400
MatSernity _l' c  C           |    7S|    200,000|M    _     _                               =                       1
Wu Vetet3's ltospitA1         |    o  5/061t                                                                            3,200
Total phase thrme=                                                                                                                            350,000 | 1,827,904 |   2,177,904 |2,950,000 |       5,127,904 |7,143,600
Total All phases                                                       1,100       132       700                                | 340 l1,775,000     9,139,520 110,914,520 17,375,000    18,38S20 1                   16,315,496
Medical Academy                            1980  16,000    7,720         140     21.92       120
Oncology Scientific Center                 1976  58,500   19,241         615    246.38       300  276 Adult Oncologybeds needed      30eo0                        11                   
Sepsis Center                              1985   2,800    6,290         190     34.17       150  R"'eplifewityminic                  I 4@      5,01}| fi                                  ^-|-|                 -     8589,120
Total secondary Beds in Zone 2                                         2,045               1,270
Total existing beds needed without PsychWUrology/Narc/Ophthallin Zone 1                   1,021                            249  Additional projected bedsfor Secondary care
Specialty Care
Research Institute of Narcology            1980  3,150    2,300           90    32.00         60 PNi,dzd
TB Hospital                                1988  48,000   24,744         250    156.79       250
Total Specialty Care                                                          _         ___340 |_|_310 |_|   180 |   250,000 |
Total Zone 2                                   T       T         1 231,581)  __________________ T_____  _______  _______ r______  __                                                                      _ T__28  T



Attachment 3
Tbilisi Hospital Master Plan by Zone
(Preliminary Plan - Names and Phasing of Hospitals subject to change)                                                                         Page 3 of 3
-    Recomm                                       # of            ._ ~  Cet of._
Facilities Remaining in Public Domain   Physical information   Designed  Utilized   ended                  Beds consolidated           beds      Cost of   remaining         Total         Total         Total
(Zone 3)                        |Lottsizel uildin     beds        beds    of new         from:(facility nam)           orp   remodel  infrastruct            cost          cost       equipment
built area m2 area m2                             eds                                                               ure
Hospital -Polyclinic #5                      1982  50,100    19,380         310      54.90       245
(Facility will includes outpatient services)       ____
Total Phase one                                                             _   __ _         _                                                                                               93                .                  9
Total phase two                                                                                                                            25        000          9                                                             2    4
=                _                           P >l           -.=            E-5                    Wi   A       :;808030'"''""0""i'--~''0020*fe000iSh3 *m    00;2  1    9379S44$W
Total phase three                                                                                                                          125    1,250,000      595,576      1,845,576   1        00000  3,745,576             1,242,040
Total all phases                                                            310      54.90       280                                      190   1,950,000   2,977,880    4,927,880   4,750,000           9,677,880            4,825,008
City clinic # I                              1916  39,660    33,819         470    334.58        400  Reduction is bed number by demolition of the Exrerimental Maternity
Maternity Home #4                            1969  12,500     4,352         120      07.25       l10  PIhvattted
Republic Ophthalmology Center                1980  13,760    11,775         180     37.77        120  Diffenrence inorigilnatsized is both due to chasge in size of rooms andthe beds for zone I & 2 (only 62 beds are needed fro Tbilisi)
Total secondary Beds in Zone 3                _                           1,080                 910                                   I        I            i
Total existing beds needed without Psych/Urology!Narc/Ophtha1l in Zone1                       1,021                              (11,)I Bed Defciency in the area
Specialty CareI
Research Institute of Urology                19781  I,oo|   6,970           140     8091         120      BedsneededforTbilisi@70%utili
Specialty Care                         r         T       1~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~40 f8 9j 1201  Hvtiz eds neddfrTiiij                             _____                                   
Total Specialty Care                                                        140 |         |     120 P| Prvatized70
TotalZone3                                 I          -        -                                     1,220                                          -                    1,030-
Summary
AR Zones
Total all Zones for Secondary Care                         |             4,595 |          |  3,440                                            1 _            _ r                         _            _              _        _       _
Total all Zones specialty Care and private centers                         980   _        |    9301
Total all Zones for all beds                                             5,575                4,370



