Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3264 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Reform Support Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3264 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1999, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Association has agreed to provide assistance in support of: (i) 
the Borrower’s program of structural adjustment of its economy (the Program) by 
providing a credit on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the Third Structural Adjustment 
Credit); and (ii) the Borrower’s program of structural adjustment of its energy sector 
(the Energy Restructuring Program) by providing a credit on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Association (the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit); 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated May 31, 1999 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
restructure its hospital sector (Hospital Restructuring Program); and 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“Health PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by the  
Borrower’s Ministry of Health pursuant to the Ministerial Decree No. 5a/7-36, dated 
August 27, 1996; 
(d)
“HRF” means the Hospital Restructuring Fund to be established under Part 
A (1) of the Project; 
(e)
“NBG” means the National Bank of Georgia, the central banking institution 
of the Borrower; 
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the manual to be approved by the HRF in 
agreement with the Association, describing eligibility criteria, selection, approval 
and supervision rules and procedures for activities to be financed by the HRF, as such 
Operational Manual may be changed from time to time upon agreement with the 
Association;
(g)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations under the supervision of 
the Investment Council chaired by the President of Georgia; 
(h)
“Project Account A” and “Project Account B” mean the accounts to be 
established for the purposes of making available the Borrower’s contribution to the 
Project, referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Public Information Center” means the agency to be established pursuant 
to the provisions of Part A.3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(k)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement and refers collectively to Special Account A and Special Account B, 
as each term is defined in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,200,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2009 and ending May 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2019 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  4
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provision of Section 3.01 (a), the 
Borrower shall: (a) open Project Account A and Project Account B in a commercial bank 
with  initial deposits in local currency equivalent to at least $50,000 each; (b) make 
adequate quarterly deposits into said Project Account A and Project Account B to 
re-establish a balance equivalent to $50,000, or such other amount as may be agreed by 
the Association from time to time; and (c) use the funds of the Project Account A and 
Project Account B exclusively for financing the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the PIU, establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the PIU:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
Page  5
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 1999 or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; (A) describes physical progress in the 
Project implementation, both cumulative and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and sets forth the status of procurement under the project and the 
expenditures under the contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. Upon completion of the action plan referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period. 
Section 4.03  The Borrower shall  issue, through its Ministry of Education, 
standards for accreditation of medical schools based on conditions and criteria 
satisfactory to the Association not later than October 1, 1999, and immediately 
thereafter initiate the process of accreditation. 
ARTICLE V 
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that either the Program, or the Energy Sector Restructuring Program, or the 
Hospital Restructuring Program, or a significant part of any of said programs, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  6
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower has opened a Project Account A and Project Account B in a 
commercial bank with an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to at least 
$50,000 each.
(b)
The Borrower has established a financial management system for the 
Project, acceptable to the Association. The Borrower has appointed independent 
auditors for the Health PCU and PIU with experience and qualifications, under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit  
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part A
   2,805,000
84%
of the Project
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) under Part A of
     415,000
of local expendi-
the Project
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
(b) under Parts B, C,
     460,000
local expenditures
D and E of the
for other items
Project
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services,
100% of foreign
training and study
expenditures and
tours:
80% of local
expenditures
(a) under Part A of
   1,685,000
the Project
(b) under Part C.4 of
     670,000
the Project
(c) under Parts B,
   4,890,000
C.1-3, D and E of the
Project
(4)
Operating costs of the
      85,000
100%
Health PCU
(5)
Operating costs of the
      70,000
100%
PIU
(6)
Unallocated:
(a)  under Part A of
     560,000
the Project
(b) unders Parts B, C,
     560,000
D, and E
TOTAL
  12,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “operating costs of the Health PCU” means incremental operating 
Page  8
expenditures incurred by the Health PCU with respect to the implementation of Part A 
of the Project, including office supplies and equipment, staff salaries, utilities, 
vehicle maintenance, communications and audit costs, and office refurbishment.
(d)
the term “operating costs of the PIU” means incremental operating 
expenditures incurred by the PIU with respect to the implementation of Parts B, C, D 
and E of the Project, including office supplies and equipment, staff salaries, 
utilities, vehicle maintenance, communications and audit costs, and office 
refurbishment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b)
payments for expenditures under Category 1, unless an inventory of  
medical waste in the facilities to be privatized has been carried out and furnished to 
the Association a satisfactory action plan for the removal of such waste; and 
(c)
payments for expenditures under Category (3) (b) unless the Public 
Information Center has been legally re-established under the Office of the President 
with a charter satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) all contracts for 
works not exceeding $500,000 equivalent with the exception of the first contract 
irrespective of its value; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent 
with the exception of the first contract irrespective of its value; (c) services 
provided by consulting firms for training under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent and contracts for all other activities not exceeding $100,000; (d) services 
provided by individual consultants for training under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent; (e) study tours; and (f) incremental operating costs under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars special deposit accounts: (a) 
Special Account A for the purposes of Part A of the Project; and (b) Special Account B 
for the purposes of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; in a commercial bank or banks, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Page  9
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the respective Special 
Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the respective Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
respective Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the respective  Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, equivalent, in the case of the Special Account 
A to $800,000, and in the case of the Special Account B to $800,000; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to: (a) an amount equivalent to $300,000 in the case of the Special 
Account A, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,100,000; and (b) an amount equivalent to $300,000 in the case of 
the Special Account B, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,100,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
Page  10
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Accounts at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Accounts for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to support the implementation of key reform 
measures in the Borrower’s economic reform program, including: (a) improving the 
balance between public and private sectors through technical assistance to increase 
private economic activities and to reform public sector entities and information 
systems; (b) improving the social sustainability of economic reforms; and (c) 
supporting the implementation of the Hospital Restructuring Program.
Page  11
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Hospital Restructuring and Financing of Health Care 
(1)
Hospital Consolidation
(a)
Assistance in the establishment of the HRF through provision of advisory 
services, office equipment and furniture for the HRF, and financing minor civil works.
(b)
Remodeling and equipping four (4) selected hospitals.
(c)
Provision of technical assistance for development and implementation of 
human resources programs.
(d)
Assistance in carrying out a public information campaign in support of 
the Hospital Restructuring Program. 
(2)
Hospital Operational Reform
(a)
Provision of technical assistance and training for improving hospital 
governance, organization and management.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance for improving equity of health care 
financing. 
(3)
Project Management
Provision of office equipment, furniture, training and logistical support to the 
Health  PCU.
Part B:
Private Sector Development 
(1)
Strategic Privatization of Large-Scale Enterprises 
Provision of technical, financial and legal advisory services to assist in the 
privatization of two (2) telecommunication companies, and other state enterprises to 
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. 
(2)
Regulatory Framework 
Provision of technical assistance and training, and a limited amount of 
equipment to develop the regulatory capacity in the energy sector, port operations and 
such other sectors as agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. 
(3)
Financial Sector
Provision to the NBG of: (a) long-term services of an adviser to assist NBG in 
the formulation of its monetary policies and strategic organization, (b) consultants’  
services to assist in the carrying out of the NBG’s supervisory functions, and (3) 
equipment for its Supervision Department.
Part C:
Public Sector Reform and Public Information 
(1)
Public Expenditures Management 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to relevant agencies of the 
Borrower to: (a) review the institutional framework for public expenditures planning, 
budgeting and execution; (b) review public expenditures priorities and develop public 
investment program; and (c) develop mechanisms to improve budget monitoring at the 
central and local levels.
(2)
Public Procurement Reform 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the Public 
Procurement Department of the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy. 
Page  12
(3)
Licensing Reform 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the Ministry of Justice to 
implement a new licensing regime established by the Law on Licensing of 1999. 
(4)
Public Information/Education Campaign 
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and materials to the 
Public Information Center of the Borrower.
Part D:
Social Sustainability 
(1)
Poverty Monitoring/Targeting 
Implementation of measures to improve poverty monitoring and the targeting of 
programs for the poor, including provision of technical and material support for: (a) 
the implementation of the on-going survey of Georgian households; (b) dissemination of 
poverty monitoring results; and (c) assessment of the vulnerability of benefit 
recipients. 
(2)
Work-Fare Option
Implementation of measures to assess the feasibility of work-fare options, 
including: (a) appraisal of the feasibility of a pilot work-fare scheme; (b) design of 
the key features and preparation of an implementation plan for such scheme; and (c) 
implementation of a pilot work-fare scheme and evaluation of its cost-effectiveness. 
(3)
Pension Reform
Provision of technical assistance to: (a) develop a pension strategy, including 
associated regulatory and institutional framework, (b) develop an information 
management system, including a database on the current stock of pensioners and 
introduction of a personal identification number/personal account; (c) develop 
actuarial modeling and establish a pension analysis unit, (d) support the introduction 
of international accounting standards in pension management, and (d) evaluate and 
improve disability certification.
Part E:
Project Management 
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and logistical support to the PIU.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Association 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than 500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $540,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors  in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $590,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  14
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more,  and (iii) the first contract for works to be awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods to be awarded pursuant 
to the procedures under Part C.3 of this Section under Part A of the Project, and (ii) 
the first contract for goods to be awarded pursuant to the procedures under Part C.3 
of this Section under any Part of the Project other than Part A,  the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured, the Borrower 
shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Association 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the development of severance packages for medical personnel, 
pensions options, and re-training programs under Part A (1)(c) of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  15
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants 
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for carrying out training activities under the Project, and services 
for carrying out audit pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement, which are estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms procured under the provisions of Part C, paragraph 4 of 
Section II to this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants procured under the provisions of Part C, 
paragraph 4 of Section II to this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Health PCU 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers, which shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A 
of the Project. 
2.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PIU under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers, which shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts B, C, D 
and E of the Project.
Page  16
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
4.
Not later than March 30, 2000, the Borrower shall:  
(a)
legally establish the HRF;  
(b)
approve the composition of the Board of the HRF, acceptable to the 
Association; and
(c)
approve an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association. 
