Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7322-BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANI) DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ENVIRONMENT AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 49.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
January 24, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 19, 1999)
Currency Unit = BGN (effective July 5, 1999)
BGNI =US$0.516
US$1 = Leva 1.937
BULGARIA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNB            Bulgarian National Bank
BOP            Balance of Payments
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBA            Currency Board Arrangement
CEE            Central and Eastern Europe
COM            Council of Ministers
DISAE          Development of Implementation Strategies for
Approximation and Environment
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EA             Environmental Assessment
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EPSAL          Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
EPSP           Environment and Privatization Support Program
ERPP           Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
EU             European Union
FESAL          Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FT             Financial Intermediary
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IPPC           Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control
MDK            MDK Copper Smelter
MOEW           Ministry of Environment and Waters
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOI            Ministry of Industry
OC             Oversight Committee
PA             Privatization Agency
PHARE          European Union Development Program
PATAs          Privatization Advisers and Transaction Agents
SARA           EU Privatization Assistance Program
SOE            State-Owned-Enterprises
Vice President:               Johannes F. Linn, (ECAVP)
Country Director:             Andrew N. Vorkink (ECC05)
Director:                     Kevin M. Cleaver (ECSSD)
Program Team Leader:          Adriana Damianova (ECSSD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Bulgaria
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION.1
II. BACKGROUND
A.  Macroeconomic Performance and Progress in Privatization .....................................................I
B.  Environmental Policy and Regulation ................................................................4
C.  Privatization and Environmental Policy ...............................................................                      5
III. ENVIRONMENT AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROGRAM (EPSP)
A.  Objectives ...............................................................7
B.  Policy and Regulatory Reform  ................................................................7
Amendments to the Privatization Law ................................................................7
Procedures for Addressing State Liability ................................................................8
Subterranean Resources Act .....................                                                    .8
Water Act ....................8
C.  Framework for Integrating Environmental Liabilities into Privatization ..................................9
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) ........................................................9
Risk Assessment Methodology ........................................................9
Remediation Plans .......................................................                                                10
Execution Agreements .......................................................                                             10
D.  Framework for Improving Ongoing Environmental Performance .......................................... 10
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control .......................................................                      10
Environmental Compliance Plans ........................................................11
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Description and Objectives .......................................................                                         12
B.  Links with CAS Objectives .......................................................                                          13
C.  Value added by the Bank's Involvement .......................................................                              13
D.  Lessons from  Previous Operations .......................................................                                  13
E. Benefits .......................................................                                                            14
F. Costs .......................................................                                                               15
G.  Loan Conditions .......................................................                                                    15
H.  Alternatives Considered .......................................................                                            18
1.   Technical Assistance .......................................................                                              19
J.   Implementation and Institutional Responsibilities .......................................................                  19
K.  Loan Financial Management, Disbursement and Accounting ................................................ 21
L. Reporting .......................................................                                                          22
M. Environmental Category .......................................................                                             23
N.  Sustainability and Risks .......................................................                                          23
0.  Collaboration within the Bank, IMF and other Donors .......................................................  25
P.  Progress to Date and Timetable .......................................................                                    25
V. RECOMMENDATION .......................................................                                                     25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Annexes
Annex 1.  Letter from the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on its Policy regarding
Environmental Liabilities in Privatization
Annex 2.  EPSL Policy Matrix
Annex 3.  Program Implementation Responsibilities
Annex 4.  Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5.  Key Economic Indicators
Annex 6.  Bulgaria Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 7.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
Annex 8.  Bulgaria at a Glance
Map       IBRD 30729



Republic of Bulgaria
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Bulgaria
Executing Agencies:   Ministry of Environment and Waters; Ministry of Finance
Beneficiaries:        Workers and population around industrial and commercial
sites with significant past and ongoing environmental
pollution.
Loan Amount:          Euro 49.5 million
Terms:               IBRD terms with 20 years maturity including 5 years grace
period, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based
single currency loans in Euro.
Commitment fee:       0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Objectives:           The objective of the loan is to assist the Government of
Bulgaria in achieving environmental improvements,
supporting the privatization of highly polluting enterprises,
and harmonizing with EU environmental requirements.
Description:          The loan will support the comprehensive reform  of
Bulgaria's environmental policies, the establishment of a
satisfactory framework for incorporating environmental
issues into the privatization, and measures to accelerate the
implementation of EU Directive on Integrated Pollution
Prevention and Control.
Benefits:             The main benefits of the loan would be its support to the
Government of Bulgaria's policy and regulatory reform
aimed at (i) improving environmental conditions; (ii)
protecting human health and sensitive ecosystems; (iii)
improving environmental performance in highly polluting
industrial sectors.
Risks:                There are four groups of risks: (i) The implementation of the
EPSAL depends on a successful privatization program of
large enterprises.   The achievements of privatization
outcomes under the Government's reform program



ii
supported by the Bank's Second Financial and Enterprise
Sector Loan mitigates this risk. (ii) The Government of
Bulgaria's commitment to introduce agreed mechanisms to
include environmental issues into privatization might be
weakened by pressure to complete individual privatization
deals quickly.  This risk is mitigated by the timely
preparation of environmental assessments, which provide the
necessary environmental information for both the
Government and potential investors to include in the
negotiations of the sale. (iii) Failure of the Government to
enforce the implementation of environmental Remediation
and Compliance Plans.  In order to mitigate this risk
technical assistance will be provided through the EU
PHARE Program to strengthen privatization oversight
capacity. (iv) Failure to implement Remediation Plans due to
disputes between the private sector and the Government.
This risk will be mitigated by the introduction of conflict
resolution measures in the Execution Agreements and
agreements on institutional responsibilities for dealing
expeditiously with disputes.
Environment:          The proposed loan has been placed in Category FI.
Financing plan:       IBRD Euro 49.5 million
Disbursements:        FY'00     Euro 15,345,000 (including front end fee)
FY'01     Euro 14,840,000
FY'02     Euro 19,315,000
Cumulative Euro 49,500,000
Project I.D. Number:    BG-PE-P057927
Rate of Return::      N.A.



Report and Recommendation of the President
Of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
To the Executive Directors
On a Proposed Environment and Privatization Support
Adjustment Loan
To the Republic of Bulgaria
l.    INTRODUCTION
1.01  I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Environment
and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL) to the Republic of Bulgaria in the
amount of Euro 49.5 million. The loan will comprise three single currency tranches in
Euro, and will be payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in Euro.
1.02 The EPSAL will provide foreign exchange for balance of payments support. The
loan is conditioned on implementation of a comprehensive program of policy reform
aimed at improving the environmental regulatory system, incorporating environmental
considerations into the privatization program, and accelerating the adoption of European
Union (EU) environmental requirements and practices to improve environmental
conditions and ongoing environmental performance of privatized enterprises.
1.03  This Loan supports the Govermnent's medium-term environmental policy set out
in its Letter of Sector Policy, included in Annex 1 of this report. It complements
extensive reforn efforts under the Extended Arrangement with the IMF and the structural
reforms supported by the Bank under the proposed Second Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II).
II. BACKGROUND
A.   MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS IN PRIVATIZATION
2.01  Macroeconomic conditions have improved remarkably since the crisis of 1996-97,
with the most important accomplishment being macroeconomic stabilization. Sound
policies have led to a decline in inflation, single digit interest rates, and a return of
confidence in the currency and the banking system. In 1998, Bulgaria's economic
developments remained quite favorable despite the Asian and Russian crises.



2
Macroeconomic stabilization has been successfully maintained largely due to the
Currency Board Arrangement and a tight fiscal stance. The overall Government balance
swung from a 2.5 percent deficit in 1997 to a one percent surplus in 1998. Inflation, at
one percent at the end of 1998, remained below expectations. As the stabilization
program took hold, economic activity began recovering in 1998. One positive impact of
the stabilization program has been the increase in real wages and salaries, which has
enabled a recovery in the purchasing power of the population from its very depressed
levels. This created some growth in the domestic demand, and consequently, growth
rebounded. Real GDP growth reached a rate of 3.5 percent in 1998.
2.02  The economic recovery slowed in the latter part of 1998 as a result of a
combination of factors, notably the turmoil in international markets, weak external
demand, and the restructuring taking place in the country's industrial sector.
Nonetheless, the recovery of GDP growth in 1998 resulted in a decline in the
unemployment rate from 14 percent in 1997 to 12 percent at the end of 1998. Despite the
recovery in economic growth in 1998, the slow pace of restructuring in the industrial
sector has led to some stagnation in exports. With exports stagnating, the country's trade
balance deteriorated, and the current account swung into a deficit of 2.1 percent of GDP
in 1998. These results indicate that considerably more needs to be done to facilitate a
restructuring of the economy in order to achieve sustained economic growth.
2.03 The early 1999 economic developments signaled a weakening of the economy
even before the Kosovo crisis. Industrial sales went down by about 13 percent in the first
half of 1999. Business confidence in industry also recorded some deterioration, and
inventories began to grow suggesting a further weakening in demand. The intense
restructuring of the economy led to an increase in unemployment. In addition, export
performance continued to weaken during the first half of 1999, contributing to a widening
of the current account deficit. Traditional exports of chemicals, fertilizers and metals
kept falling mainly due to lower world market prices and the restructuring in these
sectors, while textiles, apparel and footwear offset some of the fall in other exports.
2.04  The economy's weakening performance has been exacerbated by the Kosovo
crisis. The closure of the border with FR Yugoslavia in late March 1999 resulted in
direct and transit trade losses. A large part of Bulgaria's exports was rerouted at much
higher cost, while transit trade remained blocked even after the end of the military
operations. There was also some limited negative effect on tourism. The conflict
initially affected investor confidence and a number of large privatization deals were put
on hold. However, after the war, investor confidence revived quite rapidly, and foreign
direct investment is now expected to be higher than initially projected for 1999.
2.05 In late 1999, growth outlook improved significantly following some rebound in
external demand, and signs of improving domestic conditions. In the third quarter of
1999 GDP grew by 4.5 percent driven by stronger private consumption and increased
investment. Slowly, the exports started to pick up, and the increase in imports was
mostly due to increase in imports of capital goods. The continuing restructuring of
economy brought about a further increase in private sector share in GDP, which
generated 58 percent of GDP. However, the downsizing of the public sector was
associated with a sharp increase in the unemployment rate, which stood at 15.6 percent in



3
November 1999, or about 14 percent average for 1999. Nevertheless, if the Government
continues to aggressively pursue the structural reform program, higher growth rates of at
least four percent could be achieved in the medium termn due to the projected
improvements in the external environment, and increased domestic investments-both
private and public. These expectations are based on the assumption that private sector
activity will continue to expand while public investment will grow in line with the public
investment program of the Government.
2.06  The adverse effects of the international environment and the related current
account deterioration necessitated a tighter fiscal stance. The Government has achieved
considerable progress in improving revenue performance and tightening expenditure
management, thereby keeping the overall deficit for the first nine months of 1999 to
manageable limits.  Preliminary data indicate that the revenue and expenditure
performance over the first nine months of 1999 will ensure the achievement of the 1999
deficit target of 1.5 percent of GDP if restraint on discretionary expenditures and wage
increases is maintained for the remainder of the year.
2.07 After a slow start, the privatization program accelerated in early 1999. As of
December 31, 1999, about 78 percent of long term assets of SOEs in sectors other than
energy, transport, and infrastructure have been privatized or placed under liquidation or
insolvency proceedings. The privatization of large SOEs involves the sale of controlling
stakes to strategic investors, while the sale of small SOEs focuses on speed and
transparency. The sale of 31 of the largest and most important SOEs utilizes the services
of international privatization agents under the Privatization Advisors and Transactions
Agents (PATA) program financed by donors and the Bank. An additional 52 large SOEs
are grouped into eight pools with each pool assigned to a privatization agent. The
Privatization Agency handles directly the sale of the most of the remainder of the large
SOEs, while the line ministries are responsible for the privatization of some 3,000 small
SOEs. The Government's policy is to liquidate those SOEs in sectors other than energy,
transport, and infrastructure, which are not privatized after a reasonable period. By
March 31, 2000, the divestiture of SOEs in sectors other than energy, transport, and
infrastructure is projected to be completed.
2.08 There are several SOEs - such as the National Electricity Company, the District
Heating Companies, the water utilities and the Bulgarian State Railways - where the
privatization process is complex or where sector restructuring and the establishment of a
legal and regulatory framework are preconditions for privatization and private sector
participation. The Government has taken steps to establish the foundation for the
privatization and private sector participation in the energy sector by passing the Law on
Energy and Energy Efficiency and creating the State Commission for Energy Regulation.
The National Electricity Company will spin off several enterprises covering the
distribution, generation, and transmission functions, with the distribution enterprises to be
privatized beginning 2000. Long terms plans with privatization components have been
prepared for the District Heating Companies, the energy related coal mining SOEs, and
the Bulgarian State Railways.
2.09 The Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II) provides
support to the Government's structural reforms, including the divestiture of SOEs,



4
development of the banking system, and the restructuring of the energy sector. The CAS
also provides for a planned FESAL III, which will support the completion of the reforms
in the enterprise and financial sectors, including the privatization of or private sector
participation in SOEs in the energy, transport, and infrastructure sectors. It will also
focus on the establishment of the enabling environment for post-privatization
restructuring and private sector growth.
B.    ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND REGULATION
2.10  As Bulgaria pursues its economic objectives, it needs to integrate the
environrnental concerns into the development agenda. The socialist system left the
country with serious environmental problems and a relatively weak and ineffective
institutional and regulatory system. Unsustainable environmental management practices
resulted in environmental "hot spots", typically around large industrial plants, where
people have been exposed to unacceptably high levels of pollution, and the accumulation
of hazardous substances which have contaminated drinking water resources and
threatened ecosystems with irreversible damage.
2.11  In 1991, Bulgaria adopted an Environmental Protection Act, which provided a
new foundation for environmental policy. It revised the system of standards; introduced
the principles of pollution prevention and the integration of environmental protection
with other areas of national policy; legalized the "polluter pays principle"; provided
access to the public on ecological information; and mandated environmental assessment
(EA) procedures and requirements for all projects with potentially significant impact on
the environment.
2.12 EA procedures were further specified by a Regulation No.4 of 1995 on
Environmental Impact Assessments, and gradually refined and adjusted to adopt Western
practices, especially concerning requirements for public information and consultation.
The legislation also established a more efficient division of responsibilities between the
institutions engaged in environmental protection (e.g., MOEW, Regional Environmental
Inspectorates, and municipal authorities). The law provides for a list of projects and
activities, which require an EA, but also specifies that other projects and activities can be
subjected to an EA.
2.13 The framework environment law was followed by several media-specific acts.
The Ambient Clean Air Act of 1996, for example, laid down the principles of protecting
the health of humans, animals and plants from harmful impact of pollution, and
preventing the hazards and harm due to changes in air quality from different activities.
The Act and the subsequent Regulation No. 2 of 1998, set out air quality indicators and
standards for several key pollutants; limits for emissions; and the rights and obligations
of state and municipal authorities, legal entities and individuals on control, management
and maintenance of air quality.
2.14 Based on the "polluter pays principle" adopted in the Environmental Protection
Act, a 1993 Regulation of the Council of Ministers imposed sanctions for pollution above
permissible standards. Sanctions are monthly, and the duration and exact amount are
determined individually by order of the Minister of Environment.



5
2.15  Although the above-described measures represent a significant improvement in
the environmental policy framework, experience with their implementation is still
limited. Additionally, subsidiary legislation under the general framework environmental
law has been slow to develop. Several laws have not been revised for the last 30 years,
and have become outdated. The Water Law of 1969, for example, has several very
significant weaknesses, which impede effective implementation and enforcement, and the
adequate use and protection of waters as a natural resource.
2.16  In recent years, significant progress has been made in dealing with specific
sources of pollution, and in building institutional capacity to address environmental
priorities in Bulgaria. The Bank assisted the Government to conduct an Environmental
Strategy Study (FY93) and an Update and Follow-up (FY95). Additionally, the EU
PHARE Program has been providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Environment
and Waters (MOEW) to strengthen its policy and regulatory capacity, and to improve the
skills of domestic consultants and experts in carrying out environmental assessments.
2.17 In 1993, Bulgaria signed an Association Agreement with the EU, establishing a
framework for economic and political cooperation in a number of areas including
environment. Under the Agreement, which came to force in 1995, the Government is
committed to harmonize its laws, regulations, standards, norms, and methodologies with
those of the EU. The approximation in the environment sector is the responsibility of the
MOEW, which has received support from the PHARE DISAE (Development of
Implementation Strategies for Approximation in Environment) facility to prepare an
approximation program. The program focuses, inter alia, on the cross-sectoral aspects of
environmental management, legal issues such as river basin management, transboundary
pollution, the permit regime, and the management of environmental funds.
2.18  As part of preparation for EU approximation, the Government is strongly
committed to bring legislation in compliance with the EU environmental acquis, and to
establish a modem environmental management system. This will involve a medium-term
program to develop a body of legislation, sub-legislative acts, and streamlining of
institutional arrangements. One of the most substantial tasks of adopting an EU
environmental management framework will be to implement the provisions of the EU
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive, which involves a shift
from media-based regulation - focusing, for example, on specific emissions to air or
water - to an integrated approach which takes account of the overall impact of an
industrial plant on the environrnent.
C.   PRIVATIZATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
2.19  Despite progress in improving environmental protection policies, legislation, and
institutional strengthening, actual achievements in terms of improved environmental
performance in highly polluting industries are still modest. Apart from the general
economic benefits of privatization, the experience of more rapidly reforming economies
has shown that privatization leads to substantial improvements in environmental
performance by changing production and managerial objectives, reducing waste of
natural resources, and increasing the effectiveness of environmental fines and charges.



6
2.20 Based on international experience, the Government has decided to make
environmental performance an integral element of its privatization program requiring
polluting industries to improve their environmental performance, adopt internationally
recognized environmental management practices, and comply with appropriate
environmental regulations.
2.21  It is also recognized that the implementation of sound policy reforms aimed at
economic recovery and growth, including privatization, will have to be accompanied by
environmental policies and targeted environmental programs in order to achieve the
maximum welfare benefits from economic reforms. Experience in many countries,
including those in Central and Eastern Europe, has shown that uncertainties about
liabilities for past environmental damage and about standards for future environmental
performance increase the risk for investors, hinder the privatization process, reduce
privatization revenues, and leave serious environmental problems unresolved. There are
two separate but linked issues, which must be solved:
*    The environmental legacy of the past (pollution stock issue) is a major
concern especially for sectors where environmental liabilities are large
compared to the value of enterprises. Although the Bulgarian State is
legally liable for past environmental damages, uncertainties about the
magnitude of the environmental problems and required measures to
address them can deter reputable investors, and impede privatization.
Sectors especially affected include mining, metallurgy, chemicals and oil
refming and petrochemicals. Therefore, there is a need for a clear legal
framework backed up by mechanisms for (a) assessing the magnitude of
past liabilities, (b) developing plans for appropriate remediation and
management of the liabilities, (c) agreeing on the respective
responsibilities of the government (as seller) and the new owners for
implementing and financing these plans, and (d) dealing with unforeseen
liabilities whose extent and nature only emerge after the privatization is
completed.
*    Few industrial plants are currently able to comply with existing Bulgarian
environmental regulations (pollution flow issue) with respect to their
emissions, let alone any future regulations that will be adopted as Bulgaria
moves to implement EU environmental directives. It is clear that the
responsibility for compliance with environmental regulations must lie with
the new owners. However, a reasonable time and clear indications for
future environmental requirements should be given to investors to make
the necessary adjustments and investments to improve their environmental
performance. The nature of the emission standards that will apply and the
time allowed for compliance with these standards may have a significant
impact on the valuation of enterprise and future investment plans. While
the Government bears the costs, reflected in reduced privatization revenue,
if the time allowed to comply with more stringent environmental
regulations is shortened, integrating these requirements into the
investment and restructuring plans of the new owners ensures cost-
effectiveness in meeting environmental standards.



7
2.22  At the beginning of the privatization process, the Government did not pay special
attention to environmental issues. The lack of information about the extent of past
environmental liabilities and measures needed to address them has caused delays in the
privatization of a number of highly polluting enterprises (e.g., OZK Lead-Zinc Smelter
Kurdjali, KCM Plovdiv). In other cases, the lack of attention to environmental issues has
resulted in ongoing disputes and unresolved problems. As the Government embarked on
an ambitious large-scale privatization program, concerns were raised about the possibility
that large and poorly defined environmental liabilities would deter reputable investors.
2.23  The Bank is assisting the Government with an Environmental Remediation Pilot
Project (ERPP) which is designed to address environmental liabilities at the MDK
Copper Smelter, one of the most polluting enterprises in Bulgaria, as part of its sale to a
strategic investor. The ERPP introduced a mechanism for addressing both ongoing
environmental obligations and past liabilities in a comprehensive way for the first time:
as part of the sale of the company, agreements were made for Environmental Compliance
(to improve the performance of ongoing operations) and for the Remediation of Past
Environmental Damages (to reduce the risks associated with contamination caused by
past operations). While measures to be taken to achieve compliance are entirely the
responsibility of the new owner, the Bank assisted the Government in financing the
remediation of past damages, which is legally the responsibility of the state.
2.24 The privatization of MDK was the first case in which environmental issues were
seen as critically important by both the buyer and by the Government. All of the parties
involved have learnt much from the experience, and it has also become clear that the
Government can generate the greatest benefit from privatization if it focuses on the
development of the environmental policy framework, procedures, regulations, and
institutional capacity that systematically apply during and after privatization.
III. ENVIRONMENT AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROGRAM (EPSP)
A.   OBJECTIVES
3.01  The Government's approach and medium-term plan for environmental policy
reform are described in its Letter of Sector Policy (Letter. from the Government on its
Policy regarding Environmental Liabilities in Privatization, Annex 1). The key objective
of the EPSP is to achieve environmental improvements and to support the privatization of
highly polluting enterprises by reforming enviromnental legislation, establishing a
consistent framework for integrating environmental issues into privatization, and
accelerating harmonization with EU environmental requirements and practices. The
program would focus on the following key areas:
B.   POLICY AND REGULATORY REFORM
Amendments to the Privatization Law
3.02 Bulgaria has introduced several legal regulations concerning environmental
liabilities in the context of privatization. The Environmental Protection Act of 1991
stated that foreign or domestic investors were not liable for environmental damage



8
resulting from past action or non-action. However, experience has shown that several
investors look for stronger assurances that the state will undertake liabilities for past
pollution. Therefore, further amendments to the Environmental Protection Law and to
the Privatization Law (Law on Restructuring and Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprises and its amendments) became necessary to confirm that the State retains legal
responsibility for environmental pollution resulting from past action or non-action.
Procedures for addressing State liability
3.03 Amendments to the Environmental Protection Law and the Privatization Law
about State liability were made in 1998, and supplemented by Council of Ministers
Resolution No. 115 of 1998, and Regulation No. 4 of 1998, to clarify basic principles
(e.g. the protection of health and ecosystems from unacceptable risks), procedures for
determining damages (e.g. methodologies for assessing the magnitude of damage, risks,
and remedial action including areas surrounding industrial plants), and financial
mechanisms in relation to state liabilities (e.g., financial sources for compensating
contaminated land owners or re-cultivating agricultural land). Currently, the Agricultural
Land Use and Ownership Act calls for state compensation from the National Fund for
Protection and Amelioration of Agricultural Land for the restoration of damaged land
when it is returned to its owners. However, since the Government has eliminated this
fund as part of its reform program, it is now in the process of identifying alternative
financing sources for polluted agricultural land.
Subterranean Resources Act
3.04  Previous legislation of subterranean resources did not properly regulate the way
past contamination was addressed at disposal sites and tailing ponds.  A  new
Subterranean Resources Act has been recently approved by the Parliament, which
integrates environmental protection and conservation of the "bowels of the earth". The
law addresses ownership rights for extraction of subsurface resources, sets up
administrative routines and a permit process for exploration and mining or extraction
including mandatory assessment of the impact of these activities on environment
pursuant to the Environmental Protection Act. Subsidiary legislation will determine
responsibilities, and will improve arrangements for addressing both off-site liabilities -
for example, the contamination of agricultural land by emissions of heavy metals or
chemicals - and liabilities emerging after the sale of enterprises. The latter is particularly
important for enterprises with many operating sites spread over a region or the whole
country - such as Petrol with depots and filling stations throughout Bulgaria, or the
Gorubso mining enterprise which has nearly 40 mining sites spread over the mountains in
the South-East Bulgaria. The proposed regulatory changes would also include provisions
to deal with the liabilities of enterprises or parts of enterprises that are closed down rather
than being privatized.
Water Act
3.05   The Water Act of 1969 had significant weaknesses, which limited the adequate
protection of waters as a natural resource. The Law set an artificial division between
water quantity and water quality, and the different institutions for their control without
clearly defining and delimiting their responsibilities. The Law did not formulate any
common criteria or requirements for water-use permits which could be withdrawn,



9
modified, or suspended if the user did not comply with their requirements or if more
important state, social needs had to be satisfied. Additionally, the Act did not provide a
mechanism for determining temporary emission norms to be agreed in the Compliance
Plans.  A new Water Act was approved by Parliament in 1999; establishing a
comprehensive legal framework for environmentally and economically sustainable use of
water resources based on river basin management principle. The Law will facilitate the
new owners of privatized enterprises to implement Environmental Compliance Plans.
C.   FRAMEWORK  FOR  INTEGRATING  ENVIRONMENTAL  LIABILITIES  INTO
PRIVATIZATION
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs)
3.06  In addition to the EIA requirements for new projects, a program for the
preparation of EIAs for enterprises in operation were introduced in Bulgaria in 1996.
The program marked the beginning of environmental auditing in industrial enterprises.
The required scope and content of audit reports follow the requirements of EU legislation
on this subject (Regulation 1836/1993 on voluntary participation of industrial enterprises
in the Environmental Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) and EU Directive 96/61
for IPPC). In the context of privatization, obligations to carry out environmental and
financial assessment of past environmental damage was set in a Regulation of the PA
introduced in 1993.
3.07  Resolution No. 115/1998 of the Council of Ministers introduced an additional
requirement for SOEs in the process of privatization to carry out an EIA, including an
assessment of environmental damage caused before privatization. In accordance with the
provisions of Bulgarian environmental legislation, the EIA is subject to public
consultation and discussion, before the Expert Council of the MOEW approves it. Large
industrial enterprises under privatization were required to prepare EIAs. Additionally the
EU SARA Program has provided technical assistance to carry out additional
environmental assessments.
Risk assessment methodology
3.08  In order to clarify the scope of the assessment of past environmental liabilities as
part of the EIA for enterprises under privatization, the MOEW adopted a methodology
described in Guidance for the Scope and Contents of Reports on the Assessment of Past
Environmental Pollution.   The methodology adapted international practice and
experience with environmental risk assessment to Bulgarian conditions.
3.09 According to the methodology, the scope of environmental assessments depends
on the magnitude of environmental risks following a three-stage assessment procedure.
The first stage covers a description of the enterprise operations, environmental
performance, and relevant standards. The second applies a simplified procedure for risk
assessment to classify liabilities associated with the enterprise into cases which present
no significant hazard to the population and those which require additional investigation.
The third stage involves studies that are more detailed and additional data collection to
better characterize the nature and extent of risks, and develop a remediation plan
including an assessment of costs involved.



10
Remediation Plans
3.10  In cases when the environmental assessments identify significant risks and the
need for remediation measures to be undertaken to protect human health and ecosystems,
Framework Remediation Plans for Past Environmental Damages (Remediation Plans)
should be prepared according to the third stage of the above described methodology. The
Remediation Plans and their cost estimates are to be prepared relying on cost-
effectiveness principles, considering various alternatives such as containment and
monitoring as well as clean up measures. The activities identified under the EIAs and
Remediation plans are subject to public consultations which provide for identifying of
negative impacts, and monitoring and evaluation of the effect of activities. The
remediation plans involve measures for containment or clean up of past environmental
damages the social implications of which are expected to be positive. To facilitate the
sale of enterprises, the EU SARA Program has provided technical assistance to the
Government to assist in the preparation of Remediation Plans in a number of enterprises
where preliminary EIAs indicated significant risks.
Execution Agreements
3.11  The regulatory improvements introduce provisions for contractual arrangements
for implementation of on-site remediation measures.  Remediation Plans will be
implemented by the new owners of enterprises after privatization according to Execution
Agreements, which represent legally binding arrangements between the State and the new
owner for execution of remediation measures on behalf of the state which remains legally
and financially responsible for past environmental liabilities.
3.12. Execution Agreements will be an integral part of the Sales Purchase Agreements
between the Government and the investors. They include, inter alia, a-Remediation Plan,
key stages of work, a disbursement plan, performance indicators against which agreed
lump sum payments will be disbursed to the investor, an agreed cap for the total
remediation cost, a financing and an insurance mechanism for environmental
commitments, and a mechanism for implementation oversight and arbitration.
D.   FRAMEWORK FOR IMPROVING ONGOING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control
3.13  The Government is committed to convergence with EU  legislation as a
fundamental element of its overall goal of joining the EU. The accelerated adoption of
EU environmental directives - in particular EU Council Directive 96/61/EC of 24
September 1996 on IPPC - would be the basis for establishing Environmental
Compliance Plans for privatized enterprises.
3.14 The IPPC Directive established a framework for industrial pollution management.
The overall goal of the Directive is to achieve a high level of protection of the
environment by means of measures designed to prevent or reduce emissions to air, water,
and soil. According to the IPPC Directive, Member States are expected to issue permits
which set emission limits and contain measures following a set of principles including (i)
best available techniques (BAT) to prevent pollution; (ii) no significant pollution; (iii)
avoidance of waste production by means of waste recovery; (iv) energy efficiency; (v)



11
prevention of accidents and limiting of their consequences; (vi) remediation of sites to
acceptable levels after cessation of activities in order to avoid risks.
3.15  According to the IPPC Directive, operators of existing plants have to obtain a
permit within eight years of the Directive's implementation, and Member States have to
establish a schedule for this process. All permits have to contain conditions to ensure
compliance with the basic principles outlined above, and to prevent breaches of EU
environmental quality standard. Integrated permits have to contain emission limits and
have to lay down requirements to prevent the transfer of pollution from one medium to
another. Other requirements concerning soil and groundwater protection and waste
management must be specified if necessary.
3.16 The IPPC Directive is being gradually adopted and implemented by Member
States. Bulgaria would not be expected to comply with this Directive until it becomes a
member of the EU. However, negotiations on Compliance Plans in the context of
privatization provide an opportunity and framework for introducing, adopting, and
implementing - as far as possible - the provisions of the Directive for newly privatized
enterprises, subject to allowing appropriate periods for compliance. This way, the
Government will also provide greater certainty to the new owners about the basis for and
nature of the environmental standards that will apply to their future operations. The
standards and the provisions for integrated environmental permits according to the
guidelines of the IPPC Directive would be clearly agreed in the Compliance Plans, which
would also form a part of the privatization contract.
3.17 As part of the EPSP, the MOEW elaborated a timetable for implementing the
provisions of the EU IPPC Directive. Under the plan, a pilot phase will be introduced
when pilot integrated permits will be issued substantially according to IPPC guidelines to
selected enterprises (such as OZK Lead-Zinc Smelter, Kurdjali; KCM Plovdiv Lead-
Zinc, Kremikovtzi Steel Complex, and Neftochim Petrochemical and Refining Complex)
in the metallurgical and chemical sectors. Enterprises for which Compliance Plans will
be negotiated during the privatization process are the most likely candidates for
participation in the pilot phase of integrated permits. Since these enterprises are typically
the largest polluters, this approach will ensure that the integrated permit regime will
reduce pollution in industries which pose the highest environmental risks. In the
medium-term, the coverage will be extended to at least 80% of large enterprises in these
sectors.
3.18 In order to reform environmental legislation, the MOEW is currently
collaborating with the Danish Ministry of Environment and the Danish Environmental
Protection Agency to support the approximation of Bulgarian legislation with EU
requirements on industrial pollution, including the IPPC Directive.
Environmental Compliance Plans
3.19 An Environmental Impact Assessment including an assessment of current
environmental performance and past contamination will be prepared for each enterprise
under privatization. The EIA will propose a plan to bring the enterprise into compliance
with relevant emission standards.  The Compliance Plans imply a program  of
environmental investments for cleaner technologies and waste reduction measures that
would gradually bring plants' environmental performance in compliance with the norms



12
and standards. Typically Compliance Plans deal with requirements for environmental
performance, set up limits for ambient concentration of pollutants in water, soil, and air,
and contain measures for reduction of emissions and concentration of pollutants in the
ambient environment. Such measures are expected to have positive environmental and
social effects.  The implementation of Compliance Plans will be entirely the
responsibility of the enterprises.
3.20 However, enterprises under privatization are typically out of compliance with
environmental regulations, and it is not realistic to expect new owners to comply with
requirements immediately following privatization. The Compliance plans will determine
specific temporary norms and standards that will apply to enterprises during the transition
period until regular standards could be achieved. Since compliance often requires
adjustment in production processes, technologies and additional investments, Compliance
Plans should outline a time bound program of investments to upgrade environmental
performance and to reduce emissions to meet Bulgaria and/or EU emission requirements.
The length of the transitional period and the requirements of the temporary norms will
depend upon the investment program envisaged for the enterprises.
3.21  In the context of privatization, the necessary process changes and investments to
improve environmental performance can be integrated into the new owners' overall
investment program. This way, investments can be optimized, cleaner technologies and
waste reduction measures introduced, and investor risks about future uncertainties
reduced. Compliance Plans will be agreed upon as part of the Sales Purchase Agreements
for the enterprises.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   DESCRIPTION-AND OBJECTIVES
4.01  The proposed loan, in the amount of Euro 49.5 million, will be a LIBOR-based
single currency loan with a maturity of 20 years, including a five years grace period at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR based loans in Euro. The Loan is designed as a multi-
tranche adjustment operation. It will provide budgetary support to the Government for (i)
improving environmental policies incorporating environmental issues into privatization;
(ii) harmonizing Bulgarian environmental legislation and permit process with EU
requirements, and (iii) addressing past environmental damages in privatized enterprises.
The EPSAL will complement the Bank's support to the Government to reform the state-
owned enterprise sector under the proposed present and future adjustment lending
support extended by the Bank for structural reforms. The Loan compensates for the
budgetary costs (see under costs) and shortfalls associated with the implementation of the
EPSP.
4.02  The Government presented to the Bank a Letter on its Policy regarding
Environmental Liabilities in Privatization, which was found to be satisfactory, attached as
Annex 1. An agreement on the Policy and Action Matrix, which is attached as Annex 2,
was confirmed during negotiations held on December 7 and 8, 1999.



13
B.   LINKS WITH CAS OBJECTIVES
4.03  The Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 17655-BUL dated April 9, 1998)
focused on supporting Government efforts to underpin the progress in macroeconomic
stabilization with durable structural reforms. In particular, the CAS supported the
Government to accelerate reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors. In parallel, the
CAS included environmental initiatives that would support the objective of protecting
and improving the environment and human health, and prudent and rational utilization of
natural resources. The Loan will directly support these CAS objectives. The loan will
also facilitate structural reforms and private sector development.  The mechanism
designed under the operation will enable the Government to deal systematically with
environmental remediation and compliance issues for enterprises under privatization.
C.   VALUE ADDED BY THE BANK'S INVOLVEMENT
4.04 The main benefit of the Bank's involvement comes from the transfer of
international best practice in (i) ensuring that a satisfactory regulatory and policy
framework is created to oversee and enforce the implementation of remediation and
compliance plans; (ii) addressing environmental liability issues during the privatization
process; (iii) evaluating environmental threats and identifying cost-effective measures to
address serious past environmental damages; and (iv) setting reasonable environmental
compliance targets and schedules. The Bank's involvement provides comfort to investors
about the proper handling of environmental liability issues, reducing their overall
investment risk. The Bank is contributing to capacity building and the establishment of
an institutional framework that facilitates cross-sector coordination.
4.05  The Loan will provide a portion of the budgetary expenditures associated with the
implementation of EPSP during 2000-2003. Without the loan, major environmental
damage, which poses significant threat to human health and ecosystems, could not be
addressed. Additionally, in the case of those enterprises which have future economic
potential but whose environmental liabilities are larger than the value of their current
assets, privatization would be seriously constrained without the Loan.
4.06 In the longer term, the measures under the EPSP will yield substantial benefits
from better environmental quality and from the demonstrated commitment to EU
membership, but the short term costs are significant for a country that is going through a
very difficult period of economic and fiscal adjustment.
D.   LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS OPERATIONS
4.07  The proposed operation builds on lessons from other countries in Central and
Eastern Europe, as well as elsewhere (e.g., in Latin America) in addressing
environmental issues during privatization; as well as the pilot project (ERPP) currently
under implementation in Bulgaria.  Several lessons emerge from these operations
including the importance of:
* Providing detailed information about the environmental liabilities of enterprises
under privatization and introducing clear environmental requirements into
privatization bidding documents.



14
*  The involvement of MOEW, other environmental experts, and stakeholders early
on in the privatization process.
* Including binding environmental agreements as part of the Sales Purchase
Agreements.
* Strong post-privatization oversight.
4.08  The following measures have been taken to reflect the above lessons in the
preparation and design of the EPSAL:
* Environmental audits and assessments have been carried out by independent
consultants for enterprises under privatization.
* The results of environmental assessments, together with indications of
environmental requirements, have been incorporated into the Information
Memoranda released to potential investors.
* Additional assessments have been undertaken when needed, to more accurately
assess the remediation cost.
* Increased coordination between the MOEW, PA and privatization consultants
(PATAs).
* The establishment of performance criteria, key stages of work and associated
lump sum reimbursements have been recommended as a basis for Execution
Agreements.
E.   BENEFITS
4.09  Environmental. The main environmental benefits of the Loan would be: (i) an
improved environmental management and regulatory system; (ii) protection of human
health and sensitive ecosystems from excessive pollution; (iii) mitigation of risks posed
by past environmental damages; (iv) improvement of environmental performance in
highly polluting industrial sectors; and (v) costs savings by linking environmental
compliance with industrial restructuring. The beneficiaries of the loan would be workers,
farmers, and the population living in and around the environmental "hot spots" and
highly polluted industrial areas. Indirectly, the Bulgarian people would benefit as the
loan facilitates the privatization of large enterprises, contributing to better economic
performance, higher budgetary revenues, and economic growth.
4.10 Social. The social effects of the proposed EPSP are expected to be positive.
Along with the environmental and health benefits for the population, the EPSP will
provide employment opportunities and additional new jobs in the private sector. In the
medium and long run, it is expected that the execution of the investment programs under
the Compliance Plans will prolong the demand for new jobs, which will partially offset
the adverse social impact of the downsizing of privatized enterprises.
4.11  To achieve the objectives of the EPSP, the Government will implement the
Remediation and Compliance Plans in consultation with the primary stakeholders to
create public awareness, and to build support for the proposed activities, and will allow
for community monitoring and evaluation during implementation. To extend the



15
community ownership of the remediation and compliance measures the Government will
seek local input on social and environmental issues during implementation of the EPSP.
If adverse environmental and social impacts are identified during public consultations
under the EIA, or during the monitoring activities carried out under the implementation
of the remediation and compliance measures, the Government would take measures or
ensure that measures to mitigate any such impacts have been taken.
F.   COSTS
4.12 The Government will incur budgetary costs in order to implement the EPSP and
policy reform both in the form of additional expenditures - associated with remediation
of and compensation for past environmental damages - and via losses of privatization
revenues brought about by the accelerated implementation of stricter environmental
regulations.
4.13  The costs associated with past environmental damages fall into several categories
including (i) remediation in privatized enterprises (for which the Government often
cannot expect privatization revenues that cover the cost of remediation); (ii)
environmental remediation in enterprises under liquidation; (iii) remediation of
contaminated agricultural land, or compensation to land owners of such land; and (iv)
costs of addressing unforeseen liabilities and potential future third party claims.
4.14  The environmental assessments carried out in selected industrial enterprises from
the metallurgical and chemical sectors indicate potential costs of addressing past
environmental damages of the following order: Kremikovtzi Steel Complex: $15 million;
Neftochim Petrochemical and Refining Complex: $30 million; Assarel-Medet Non-
ferrous Mining and Metallurgy Complex: $7 million; OZK Lead-Zinc Smelter Kurdjali:
$5 million; Agropolichim: $10 million; Leko-ko Radomir Steel Complex $10 million.
However, final cost of remediation depends on detailed assessments and plans on future
operations, and investment commitments by new owners. An additional cost of $20-30
million is estimated for off-site and unforeseen liabilities and contaminated sites of
liquidated enterprises.
4.15  The costs of environmental compliance for enterprises listed above is estimated to
exceed $200 million of which approximately $50 million is associated with the
accelerated adoption of IPPC emission standards and regulations.
G.   LOAN CONDITIONS
4.16 Loan conditions for tranche one have been fulfilled. Upon loan effectiveness, the
Bank would withdraw from the Loan Account a fee amounting to Euro 495,000, while
the remaining funds of tranche one amounting to Euro 14,850,000 would be released to
Borrower. The Loan will be disbursed in three tranches according to the following
conditions:



16
a.  Conditions for the first tranche
* Satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including continued compliance under
the Extended Arrangement with the IMF and with the structural reforms
supported by the Bank.
* Amendments to the Environmental Protection Law and the Law on Restructuring
and Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises and its amendments, to
explicitly retain the State's liability for past environmental damages.
* Parliamentary approval of the Water Act satisfactory to the Bank.
* Parliamentary approval of the Subterranean Resources Act satisfactory to the
Bank.
* Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a Regulation on the principles,
conditions, and procedures for settling the State's liabilities for historical
pollution.
* Adoption of an Order of the MOEW of the Guidelines for the Scope and Content
of the Past Contamination Damages.
* Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments for the following privatized
enterprises: Neftochim Petrochemical and Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel
Complex, and Assarel Medet as the basis of agreeing on Framework Remediation
and Compliance Plans annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
* Preparation of a timetable acceptable to the Bank, for implementing pilot
integrated environmental permits according to the EU Council Directive 96/61 on
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC).
*  Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements for Neftochim  Petrochemical and
Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel Complex, and Assarel Medet, under which
at least 67 percent of the equity interest in the enterprise is transferred to a private
owner and the purchaser has paid the required down payment, and the following
requirements are fulfilled:
> Environmental clauses acceptable to the Bank are included in the Sales
Purchase Agreements.
> Compliance Plans approved by the MOEW, and acceptable to the Bank
are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
> Framework Remediation Plans with cost caps approved by the MOEW,
and acceptable to the Bank are annexed to the Sale Purchase Agreement.
> Execution Agreements, signed by .the MOEW, MOF and PA and
satisfactory to the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
> The total cost of environmental remediation of these enterprises exceeds
US$ 25 million.
* Establishment of an inter-agency coordinating mechanism with the participation
of the MOF, MOEW, PA, and MOI, or its successor, to oversee the



17
implementation of the EPSP, and designation of an official of MOF to carry out
the duties of loan manager.
b.   Conditions for the second tranche
*  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including continued compliance under
the Extended Arrangement with IMF and with the structural reforms supported by
the Bank.
*  Pilot integrated environmental permits issued according to the EU IPPC Directive
to at least 5 large enterprises (each with at least 1,000 employees') in the
metallurgical and chemical sectors.
*  Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments for the privatized enterprises
as the basis of agreeing on Remediation and Compliance Plans annexed to the
Sales Purchase Agreements.
*  Satisfactory progress, according to performance indicators agreed with the Bank,
in the implementation of Framework Remediation Plans, Compliance Plans and
the time-bound implementation plans set out in the Execution Agreements
relating to Neftochim Petrochemical and Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel
Complex, and Assarel Medet.
*  Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements for at least three additional large
industrial enterprises, under which at least 67 percent of the equity interest in the
enterprise is transferred to a private owner and the purchaser has paid the required
down payment, and the following requirements are fulfilled:
>  Environmental clauses, acceptable to the Bank, are included in the Sales
Purchase Agreements.
>  Compliance Plans approved by the MOEW, and acceptable to the Bank are
annexed to the Sale Purchase Agreements.
>  Framework Remediation Plans with cost caps approved by the MOEW, and
acceptable to the Bank are annexed to the Sale Purchase Agreements.
>  Execution Agreements, signed by the MOEW, MOF and PA satisfactory to
the Bank, are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
>  The agreed cumulative total cost of Remediation Plans for these enterprises
and those privatized as a condition of the first tranche exceeds US$ 50
million.
* Continued maintenance of the inter-agency coordinating mechanism established
as a condition for tranche one to oversee the implementation of the EPSP.
For the purposes of the Loan, a large enterprise would mean an enterprise with at least 1000 employees
as at the date of signing of the Sales Purchase Agreement. In some cases where measures for staff
reduction were taken as part of the enterprise restructuring, and it preceded the actual privatization, a
deviation from the 1000 employee definition might be acceptable to the Bank, where as the date of
measuring employees could be up to six months before, or in exceptional circumstances a longer period.
This has to be agreed with the Bank on a case by case basis.



18
* Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such measures have
been taken, to mitigate any significant adverse social impact of the EPSP
identified during the public consultation process under the EIA or during
monitoring activities carried out under the EIA.
c.   Conditions for the third tranche
*  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including continued compliance
under the Extended Arrangement with the IMF and with the structural reforms
supported by the Bank.
*  Issuance of pilot integrated environmental permits to at least 80% of all large
industrial enterprises (each with approximately 1,000 employees') in the
metallurgical and chemical sectors, and thereafter ensured compliance of all
such enterprises with the terms of the pilot permits.
*  Satisfactory progress, according to performance indicators agreed with the
Bank, in the implementation of the Framework Remediation Plans,
Compliance Plans, and the time-bound implementation plans set out in the
Execution Agreements for enterprises privatized as conditions of the first and
second tranches.
*  Continued  maintenance  of the  inter-agency  coordinating  mechanism
established as a condition for tranche one to oversee the implementation of the
EPSP.
*  Made payments from  the remediation accounts for activities under the
Framework Remediation Plans above in an aggregate amount acceptable to
the Bank2.
*  Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such measures have
been taken, to mitigate any significant adverse social impact of the EPSP
identified during the public consultation process under the EIA or during
monitoring activities carried out under the EIA.
H.       Alternatives considered
4.17 The initial project concept involved an investment lending operation focusing on
the implementation of environmental remediation plans. The experience with the
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project has shown, however, that the Bank's main
value added is linked to the (i) introduction of appropriate policy and regulatory
framework and mechanism to address systematically the environmental issues during
privatization; (ii) transfer of international best practice in assessing environmental risks
and identifying cost-effective ways of addressing them; and (iii) establishment of proper
2 During negotiations the Borrower and the Bank agreed that in order for the third tranche to be disbursed
payments from the remediation accounts should equal to approximately 70% of the Loan amounts already
disbursed under the first and second tranche.



19
mechanisms for the implementation of environmental measures.  The Bank's
involvement in the detailed implementation of environmental remediation plans,
however, is not necessary and practical. By focusing on policy reforms and the
regulatory framework, the Bank's support would apply to the whole program of
privatization rather than to a small number of individual deals only.
4.18  The Government could have chosen not to investigate the scope of environmental
liabilities of privatizing companies in detail, and transferred the responsibility and an
estimated cost of remediation to the strategic investors. However, in this case (i) the net
present value of privatization revenues would likely be significantly lower due to higher
risk and open-ended responsibilities imposed on investors; and (ii) future disputes would
be likely to prevent solutions to serious environmental problems and would require public
resources.
I.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4.19 In connection with the EPSP, the EU SARA Program has provided technical
assistance to the Government to carry out environmental and cost assessments and to
prepare Framework Remediation Plans in a number of enterprises including Kremikovtzi,
Neftochim and Assarel Medet. The EU SARA Program has agreed to provide additional
technical assistance for cost assessment and Framework Remediation Plans for
Agropolychim, Agrobiochim, Chimco, LEKO-KO-Radomir, KCM  Plovdiv, OZK
Kardjali, Eliseina mine, Elazite mine, Osogovo mine and Gorubso complex.
4.20 The EU PHARE Program is providing technical assistance to the MOEW to
strengthen its capacity in environmental assessment, auditing, and enforcement. In
addition, the MOEW has received support from the Danish Ministry of Energy and
Environment in the "Harmonization of the Bulgarian Environmental Legislation with the
EU Requirements for Industrial Pollution Control". The second stage of this program is
aimed at the implementation of the requirements of the EU Directive 96/61 on IPPC.
Under the Danish assistance program, assistance will be provided to:
* Train staff in MOEW, regional environmental inspectorates, and enterprises in
application of integrated environmental permits.
* Prepare legislation for integrated pollution control, and integrated environmental
permits, regulations for the implementation of the Ambient Clean Air Act and Air
Pollution Act and their harmonization with respective EU directives.
* Prepare samples of applications and integrated permits according to the EU IPPC
Directive.
J.  IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
4.21  Several agencies would be involved in the implementation of the Environment
and Privatization Support Program supported by the Loan. Annex 3 provides a detailed
description of the institutional responsibilities of the agencies concerned.



20
Ministry of Environment and Waters (MOEW)
4.22 The MOEW will take the lead in the (i) introduction and implementation of
environmental policy reform  measures; (ii) implementation of pilot integrated
environmental permits for selected enterprises from the metallurgical and chemical
industries; (iii) review, negotiation, approval of EIAs, including Framework
Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans, and Execution Agreements acceptable to the
Bank; (iv) oversight and enforcement of the implementation of Framework Remediation
Plans, Compliance Plans, and Execution Agreements; (v) inter-agency technical
coordination as chair of the Oversight Technical Committee, and as member of the
inter-agency coordinating body; and (vi) monitoring and reporting on the fulfillment of
Bank loan tranche conditions concerning the MOEW's responsibilities.
4.23 The MOEW will be responsible for submitting to the World Bank for review the
EIAs, including Framework Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans and for making
revisions as appropriate, based on comments received from the Bank. The MOEW
would be responsible for approval of the Framework Remediation Plans and
Compliance Plans acceptable to the Bank. The MOEW together with the MOF, would
sign legally binding Execution Agreements with the new owners of privatized
enterprises, and would oversee the technical implementation of the Execution
Agreements. During implementation of Remediation Plans, the MOEW would be
responsible for initiating conflict resolution and arbitration mechanisms in cases when
disputes arise. It would ensure efficient participation of its Regional Inspectorates in
analyzing the effects of the policy improvements and impact of the implementation, and
monitoring the remediation and compliance measures. The Ministry would have to take
measures to improve the ability of Regional Inspectorates to efficiently perform
environmental monitoring. The Ministry would keep records for each enterprise under
the EPSP of the timely fulfillment of the conditions of Remediation and Compliance
Plans.
Privatization Agency (PA)
4.24  The PA will be responsible for (i) including the results of environmental audits
and assessments, as well as references to environmental requirements in the Information
Memoranda of bidding documents, and in the negotiation process; (ii) including
environmental clauses, acceptable to the Bank, into the Sales Purchase Agreements;
(iii) signing together with the MOEW and MOF the Execution Agreements with the
new owners of privatized enterprises; and (iv) ensuring that Framework Remediation
and Compliance Plans and Execution Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, are attached
as integral parts of the Sales Purchase Agreements.
4.25  The PA will ensure that copies of the appropriate parts of the Sales Purchase
Agreements, as well as the Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans and
Execution Agreements would be submitted to the Bank for enterprises considered under
tranche one and tranche two of the loan. The PA, through the Oversight Technical
Committee and the inter-agency coordinating body, will facilitate the implementation of
Execution Agreements, and the resolution of potential disputes arising during the
implementation of the Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans.



21
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
4.26 The MOF will be responsible for Loan management and more specifically for (i)
signing, together with the MOEW, and PA the Execution Agreements with the new
owners of enterprises in the agreed sectors for the implementation of Framework
Remediation Plans; (ii) ensuring that each year during the implementation of the EPSP,
the projected amounts needed for the implementation of Framework Remediation Plans
based on the Execution Agreements will be appropriated in the budget; (iii) record
keeping of disbursements from Deposit Account in BNB; (iv) record keeping of
disbursements into and from Remediation accounts; (v) arranging for annual audits of
the Deposit Account and Remediation Accounts; (vi) coordinating with the MOEW to
ensure the availability of adequate funds according disbursement schedules set out in
the Execution Agreements; (vii) providing to the Bank disbursement reports of the
Deposit and Remediation Accounts; and (viii) providing progress reports to the Bank on
fulfillment of tranche conditions. MOF has nominated an employee to carry out the
duties of Loan Manager.
Inter-Agency Coordination
4.27 Implementation of the EPSP will require the collaboration of affected
Government agencies and public consultations. An inter-agency consultative group
consisting of officials and experts from the MOF, MOEW, PA, and the Ministry of
Economy successor of the MOI have been established by an order of the Minister of
Finance.  The technical review and approval of execution of each stage of the
remediation programs would be the responsibility of the Technical Oversight Committee
chaired by MOEW.
K. LOAN FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITING
4.28 The proposed EPSAL of Euro 49.5 million will be made to the Republic of
Bulgaria. Upon notification of Loan effectiveness and approval of the fulfillment of
tranche one conditions, the Bank, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, will deposit
the proceeds of tranche one into a Deposit Account in the BNB. Prior to that, the Bank
will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end fee amounting to Euro 495,000. The
remaining funds amounting to Euro 34,155,000 would be released to the Borrower in two
tranches upon fulfillment of loan conditions over a period of three years.
4.29 Prior to furnishing to the Bank a request for withdrawal of loan funds, the MOF
will open and maintain in BNB a Deposit Account to exclusively hold the loan proceeds
in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Over the life of the
EPSP, the MOF will allocate annually funds from the central budget sufficient to cover
the expenditures for the execution of the approved Framework Remediation Plans, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Execution Agreements3. The MOF will open and
maintain Remediation Accounts, according terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
in which funds from the central budget will be transferred. The MOF will maintain a
balance in the Remediation Accounts sufficient to cover forecast spending for at least one
3 During negotiations the Borrower and Bank agreed that upon disbursement of the third Loan tranche,
expenditures committed under the Execution Agreements by the Bulgarian Government in respect of the
enterprise privatized under the EPSP would exceed the total Loan amount.



22
year, following the start of each fiscal year. Upon receiving a request for payments from
eligible enterprises, MOF will make payments from the Remediation Accounts in
accordance with the signed Execution Agreements.
4.30 Loan management will be the responsibility of a Loan Manager employed by the
MOF. The Government will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that such items are
maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with provision of the
Loan Agreement and the supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and
records will be maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. The MOF will arrange for
the audit of the Deposit Account and Remediation Accounts in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank and by auditors acceptable to the Bank. An external
auditor of BNB will conduct an annual review of the Deposit Account and the
Remediation Accounts under terms of reference of the review acceptable to the Bank.
The MOF will make the report on the audit of such records available to the Bank. The
Loan Manager will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal applications, maintaining
the Deposit Account and Remediation Accounts. He/she will be responsible to maintain
accounts and records in a form acceptable to the Bank, showing that disbursements were
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. The Loan Manager will also
be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contribution to progress
reports and to the Implementation Completion Report by writing those sections relating
to loan administration, while the MOEW will write those sections concerning the
technical implementation of EPSP.
4.31  In accordance with the Bank Operational Directive of February 8, 1996 on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans, funds disbursed under the proposed Loan will be released against
satisfactory implementation of the program set forth in the Loan. This includes
compliance with stipulated second and third Loan tranche conditions, and progress shown
in carrying out the program set forth in the Letter from the Government on its Policy
Regarding Environmental Liabilities in Privatization (Annex 1). Disbursement will not
be linked to any specific purchases. Thus, evidence will not be needed to support
disbursement, nor will procurement requirements be necessary.
L. REPORTING
4.32  Reporting requirement will ensure that the Bank is able to monitor the
developments in certain areas of concern. Progress in implementing the EPSAL will be
monitored through semi-annual reviews conducted by the Bank. The Government will
submit to the Bank semi-annually progress reports on the execution of the EPSP. The
monitoring and reporting of implementation and overall compliance with loan conditions
will be the responsibility of the MOF based on reporting by the MOEW on the execution
of Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans.
The following indicators will be applied to monitor performance:
* Number and cost of implementing Framework Remediation Plans and
Compliance Plans agreed between new owners of the privatized enterprises and
the Government according to principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank.



23
* Satisfactory execution of Framework Remediation Plans according to stages of
works agreed in time-bound Execution Agreements and agreed environmental
performance indicators.
* Compliance with water and air emissions requirements specified for each
enterprise in the Compliance Plans.
* Agreed measurable improvements in environmental quality indicators of plants
agreed under the Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans.
*  The number of enterprises for which integrated pilot environmental permits are
issued according to EU 1996 Directive on IPPC.
M. ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY
4.33  The proposed EPSAL is expected to have a significant positive impact on the
environment. The objective of the Loan is to help achieve environmental improvements.
The loan supports the establishment of a framework for improving environmental
conditions and performance of privatized enterprises. Some of these improvements will
require investments for remediation of past contamination and for changes in production
technologies. According to the regulatory improvements adopted by the Government
related to privatization, the Government is responsible for reviewing and approving
environmental assessments of the proposed investments, both as financier of the
remediation plans and in its regulatory capacity. Monitoring of environmental
compliance is a responsibility of the MOEW and its regional structures. The proposed
Loan has been examined by ECSSD and placed in Environmental Category Fl.
4.34 Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans will be prepared, reviewed,
discussed publicly, and approved according to the Bulgarian EIA requirements. These
have been broadly harmonized with the international procedures and practices. The
Bulgarian EA procedures have also been thoroughly reviewed by the Bank and found
consistent with the Bank's EA requirements and safeguard polices. All Framework
Remediation and Compliance Plans included in the EPSP and implementation progress
reports will be subject to Bank review. An adequate loan supervision budget will ensure
efficient monitoring of implementation of the environmental reform measures and the
framework for incorporating environmental issues into the privatization process.
N. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
4.35  The Government strongly supports the EPSP. However, there are four groups of
risks associated with implementation:
1. Failure to complete the privatization program.
The implementation of the EPSAL is dependent on the successful implementation of
the structural reforms namely successful privatization of large enterprises from the
metallurgical and chemical industries. Privatization delays of large, highly polluting
enterprises would weaken the EPSP. The targets established under the Extended
Arrangement with the IMF and under the Bank's FESAL II imply that the
Government has strong incentives to push the privatization program forward as
rapidly as possible, which minimizes the risk of privatization delays. At the same



24
time, the support provided under this operation will enhance the prospects for
successful privatization of large industrial enterprises.
2. Failure to apply the agreed mechanisms to address environmental issues in the
privatization contract.
The Government's commitment to introduce the agreed mechanisms may be
weakened by pressure to complete individual privatization deals quickly, especially in
cases where the investor has little interest in addressing environmental problems at
the time of privatization. Transactions which do not comply with the agreed
procedures, will not qualify for meeting the conditions for the release of the Loan
tranches.  Substantial efforts have been made to ensure that environmental
assessments, which provide the necessary environmental information, are available to
the responsible Government agencies and potential investors, as early as possible
during the privatization process. Experience to date suggests that access to such
information encourages bidders (and their financiers) to seek a full agreement on
environmental issues as part of the overall sale agreement.
3. Failure to enforce the implementation of Compliance and Remediation Plans.
The implementation of Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans will be the
responsibility of the private sector. The Government may fail to enforce their
implementation due to insufficient institutional capability to work with private sector.
Provisions to partially mitigate this risk were made through establishing clear
contractual arrangements between the Government and new owners of privatized
enterprises in the Execution Agreements. In order to mitigate this risk EU-PHARE
will provide technical assistance to the post-privatization unit in the PA to strengthen
the monitoring of investment commitments of new owners and take measures in the
event of non-compliance. The Bank and the Government have worked closely in the
design of the EPSP implementation arrangements, and monitoring, and oversight
requirements to ensure that necessary arrangements have been put in place before the
start of the program. The MOEW will improve the ability of the Regional
Environmental Inspectorates to efficiently monitor the impact of remediation and
compliance requirements.
4. Failure to implement Compliance and Remediation Plans due to disputes between the
private sector and the Government.
Changes in the agreed Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans may delay
implementation if lengthy disputes arise between the new owners, and the
Government is unable to agree on modifications to the plans as a result of
disagreements over technical, cost, and/or environmental compliance issues. The risk
of such delays is partly mitigated by the technical assistance provided through the EU
SARA Program for preparation of environment and cost assessments in the course of
privatization, and also by agreeing on the institutional responsibilities within the
Government for dealing expeditiously with disputes. As a fallback, the Execution
Agreement covering the implementation of the compliance and remediation plans,
annexed to the privatization contract, will contain provisions for binding arbitration in
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. The terms of the Execution
Agreement and all other associated documents must be satisfactory to the Bank for a
transaction to qualify with respect to meeting the tranche release conditions.



25
0. COLLABORATION WITHIN THE BANK AND WITH THE IMF AND EU.
4.36 The preparation of the loan was supported by the financial assistance provided by
EU SARA Program to carry out baseline environmental audits and additional
environmental assessments for several large enterprises. Additional pre-privatization
technical assistance for the preparation of additional environmental assessments and to
provide access to independent expertise and advice has been agreed and is under
implementation. The preparation of the EPSAL has been in consultation with the Bank
FESAL and IMF teams.
P.  PROGRESS TO DATE AND TIMETABLE
4.37 Loan negotiations were successfully completed in December 1999. Conditions for
tranche one have been fulfilled. It is anticipated that conditions for tranche two and
tranche three will be met over a three-year period.
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.01 I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by
Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
January 24, 2000






Annex I
Page I of 10
LETTER FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
ON ITS POLICY REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES IN
PRIVATIZATION
December 27, 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This letter refers to the World Bank's proposed assistance to the Government of
the Republic of Bulgaria to support policy reforms addressing environmental liabilities in
the process of privatization of state owned enterprises. The purpose of this letter is to set
out the broad objectives of the Government's policies with respect to environmental
liabilities and obligations, the harmonization of Bulgarian environmental requirements
with those of the European Union (EU), and the institutional and regulatory framework
for the implementation of these policies.
Macro-Economic Background
2.    Our Government successfully stabilized the economy and substantially advanced
long-delayed structural reforms with the support of IMF and the World Bank. We
recognize that the immediate challenge is to sustain the success in the stabilization with
durable structural reform combined with restored confidence in public institutions. We
aim to build on the gains for establishing of an economy with a competitive private
sector. This will ensure significant improvements in the living standards of the Bulgarian
citizens and will prepare Bulgaria for the accession to the EU, one of the main goals
established in our Program 2001.  We strongly believe that the assistance of the
international community -- in terms of financial resources, technical assistance, and
access to foreign markets -- can harness our efforts toward this goal.
3.    The Kosovo conflict had a negative impact on Bulgaria's economic and external
balance developments. The closure of the border with FR Yugoslavia in late March 1999
resulted in direct and transit trade losses. The conflict affected investor confidence and a
number of large privatization deals were put on hold. However, after the war investor
confidence revived quite rapidly and foreign direct investment is now expected to be
higher than initially projected for 1999. Nonetheless, the Kosovo conflict increased the
overall balance-of-payments financing needs of Bulgaria for 1999 by about one percent
of GDP, which is less than what was initially estimated, but still implies a substantial
increase in the balance-of-payments gap. We estimate that the negative impact on growth
was about 1.5 percent.



Annex I
Page 2 of 10
4.    To achieve these objectives, as part of the reform program, the Government has
focused its efforts on accelerating the large-scale privatization program. As of October
31, 1999, about 75percent of the long-term assets from the current privatization program
has been privatized or placed under bankruptcy or liquidation. We expect that the
privatization of the medium to large SOEs will be completed by March 31, 2000. We are
currently restructuring the energy sector to enable privatization of various segments of
the sector.
Environmental Policy Framework
5.    As we pursue our economic objectives, we cannot ignore the negative
environmental consequences of past development policies. The socialist system left
Bulgaria with serious environmental problems and a relatively weak and ineffective
institutional and regulatory system. Unsustainable industrial management practices of
the state owned enterprises resulted in the infamous "hot spots" where people have been
exposed to unacceptably high levels of pollution, and the accumulation of hazardous
substances, which contaminated drinking water resources and threatened ecosystems with
irreversible damage.
6.    During the past years, significant progress has been made in dealing with specific
sources of pollution and building institutional capacity to address environmental priorities
in Bulgaria. The Bank assisted the Government to carry out an Environmental Strategy
Study (FY93) and an Update and Follow-up (FY95). Additionally, the EU Phare
Program has been providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Environment and
Waters (MOEW) to strengthen its policy and regulatory capacity, and assist domestic
consultants and experts in developing skills to carry out environmental assessments.
7.    Bulgaria has adopted an Environmental Protection Act, which revised the system
of standards, legalized the "polluter pays principle", and provided the public access to
environmental information. Bulgaria has established new environmental assessment
(EA) procedures and requirements for all projects with potentially significant impact on
the environment. These procedures have been gradually refined and adjusted to adopt
Western practices, esDecially concerning requirements for public information and
consultation. The new legislation provides for more efficient division of respon.sihilitie
between the institutions engaged in environmental protection.
8.    Bulgaria signed an EU Association Agreement in 1993, which was ratified by
parliament in 1995, thus committing the Government of Bulgaria to aligning its
legislation with that of the EU. The approximation in the environmental sector is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Waters. The Ministry received support
from PHARE DISAE (Development of Implementation Strategies for Approximation in
Environment) facility to prepare an approximation program. The program includes, inter
alia, cross sectoral aspects of environmental management, legal issues such as river basin
management, transboundary pollution, establishment of an Executive Agency for
Environment, economic regulators including integrated permits and the management of
environmental funds.  The program  includes the development of legislation, sub-
legislative acts, such as regulations, emission standards etc.  At this stage, the
Government recognizes that the existing laws and regulations are pertinent to the



Annex I
Page 3 of 10
objectives of the EU environmental acquis and to the modem environmental management
system.
9.    Despite the significant steps towards improved environmental protection policies
and the institutional capacity built to address environmental priorities, and the
achievements in dealing with specific sources of pollution, the results to bring us close to
the EU environmental requirements, are still modest
Links Between Macroeconomic Reform and Environmental Policy
10.   Bulgarian economy was deeply affected by the economic crisis in 1996-97. The
economic contraction hit investments hardest. The financial resources available to the
enterprises sector from internal and external sources have declined drastically.
Consequently, necessary measures to improve environmental performance in the
industrial sector have not been made.
11.   The Government now pays serious attention to the existence of environmental
problems, and it considers privatization as an opportunity to encourage and force
polluting industries to improve their environmental performance, adopt internationally
recognized environmental management practices, and comply with appropriate
environmental regulations.  We believe that restructuring of the industrial sector
following privatization can benefit both the economy and the environment by changing
production and managerial objectives.
12.   We recognize that the implementation of sound policy reforms aimed at economic
recovery and growth, including privatization, will have to be accompanied by
environmental policies and targeted environrnental protection programs in order to
achieve the maximum welfare benefits from economic reforms. The challenge for the
Government within the context of the economic restructuring is twofold: first, to provide
a regulatory framework, procedures, and clear guidelines for dealing with the legacy of
past pollution; second, to integrate environmental considerations in the reform process,
thus upgrading environmental policy from sectoral to macroeconomic development
policy. This process requires highly diversified participation and support from different
political and economic entities.
13.   There are two separate, but closely linked issues, which must be solved:
The environmental legacy of the past is a major concern especially for sectors where
environmental liabilities are large. These include mining and metallurgy, chemicals
and petrochemicals and oil refining. There is a need for a clear legal framework
supported by mechanisms which would (a) assess the magnitude of past liabilities, (b)
develop plans for appropriate remediation and management of the liabilities, (c) agree
on the respective responsibilities of the government (as seller) and the new owners for
implementing and financing these plans, and (d) deal with hidden liabilities whose
extent and nature only emerge after privatization is completed.



Annex I
Page 4 of 10
. Few industrial plants are currently able to comply with existing Bulgarian
environmental regulations with respect to their emissions, let alone any future
regulations that will be adopted as Bulgaria moves to implement EU environmental
directives. It is clear that the responsibility for future compliance with environmental
regulations must lie with the new owners. However, the nature of the emission
standards that will apply and the time allowed for compliance with these standards
may have a large impact on the valuation and future investment plans of the
enterprise.
14.   Based on the above considerations and the lessons learned from the Bank-assisted
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project, which established a model for addressing past
environmental damages and ongoing pollution, we have recognized that there is a need
for a comprehensive policy approach and active involvement of various institutions
concerned. That is why our Government decided to embark on the Environment and
Privatization Support Program outlined below.
15.  In order to provide a stable macroeconomic environrnent in which the proposed
environmental policies could succeed, the Government is committed to pursue the agreed
policies and reform measures under the proposed FESAL II programs and the Extended
Agreement with the IMF conducive to the long term development of the country. In this
context, the proposed policies and actions under the EPSP are complementary to the
privatization goals set up in the reform program.
Environment and Privatization Support Program (EPSP)
16.   The key objectives of the EPSP are to achieve environmental improvements and
to support the privatization of highly polluting enterprises by adopting and implementing
policy and regulatory reforms, accelerating the implementation of EU environmental
directives, and establishing a satisfactory framework for incorporating environmental
issues into the privatization process. The program would focus on the following areas:
Environmental regulatory reform
17    The key objectives of the environmental regulatory reform are to (i) streamrline
and improve environmental regulations; (ii) facilitate the harmonization of Bulgarian
legislation with those of the European Union (EU); and (iii) establish a consistent
framework for addressing past environmental liabilities.
18.   To achieve these goals the Government has recently undertaken the following
steps to improve the existing legal and regulatory framework:
(a) Adopted changes in the Environment Protection Act and the Law on Restructuring
and Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises and its amendments,
confirming that the State retains responsibility for environmental pollution
resulting from part action or non-action.
(b) Adopted Council of Ministers Resolution No. 115/1998, which introduces



Annex I
Page 5 of 10
requirements for all state owned enterprises in privatization to commission
Environmental Impact Assessments including an assessment of remediation costs
of historical pollution prior to privatization.
c) Issued new EIA Regulation No.4/1998 setting out Environmental Impact
Assessment requirements and procedures in compliance with the Methodological
Guidelines for Scope and Substance of Past Environmental Pollution Reports in
Privatization promulgated by Order of the Ministry of Environment and Waters.
Proposedfurther reform measures:
* Protection of water and subterranean resources. In order to address off-site liabilities
and specific disposal sites having problems with contaminated land and ground water,
a new law on Subterranean Resources and a Water Act will be approved by
Parliament to prevent further environmental degradation of natural resources.
* Temporary emission requirements for effluent waters to facilitate environmental
compliance by privatized companies. Passage and enforcement of a new Water Act
will provide a mechanism for determination of individual emission limits and other
related emission restrictions. It will enable the Ministry of Environment and Waters
to determine realistic compliance requirements for privatized enterprises and to agree
on a plan for the adjustment of production processes, technology, and investment
requirements.
* Conditions and procedures for establishing State liability for past environrnental
damage and for estimating the costs of on-site environmental damages. Recent
changes in the Privatization law do not provide for clear procedures and conditions
for the State to fulfill its responsibilities for past environmental damages. This issue
will be regulated by a Council of Ministers' Regulation. The Regulation will set up
the principles for assessment of remediation measures and associated costs.
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control
19.  In 1996, the GOB introduced an environmental auditing program with the
objective of improving the compliance of enterprise operations with environmental
legislation. The scope and content of Audit Reports follow the requirements of the
European legislation on voluntary participation of industrial enterprises in the
Environmental Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) and Directive 96/61 on
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC). The IPPC directive establishes a
framework for industrial pollution control in the EU and is gradually being adopted and
implemented by member countries.
20.   Bulgaria is not expected to comply with the IPPC directive until it becomes a
member of the EU. However, by adopting and implementing - as much as possible -- the
provisions of the EU Council Directive 96/91 for newly privatized enterprises, and by
allowing appropriate periods for compliance, the Government will provide greater
certainty to the new owners about the environmental standards and environmental
compliance requirements applicable to their operations.



Annex I
Page 6 of 10
21.   It is the intention of our government to accelerate the adoption of the EU
environmental directives as one element of our fundamental goal for harmonization of
environmental legislation with that of EU. Specifically, the standards and the provisions
for implementing IPPC directive will serve as a basis for establishing Environmental
Compliance Plans for privatized companies, that would also form a part of the
privatization contracts.
Medium-Term Measures
22.   The Government is committed to a series of actions in the medium term, which
will foster the legal approximation process, which are:
*  Adoption of a timetable for introducing changes in the exsiting legislation to allow
implementation of the provisions of the EU Council Directive 96/61 on the integrated
pollution prevention and control (IPPC) by November 1999.
*  Adoption of a timetable for implementation of the provisions of the EU Council
Directive 96/61 on the integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC) by
November 1999.
-  Issuing of pilot integrated environmental permits according to the IPPC Directive
96/61 for at least 5 large enterprises in the metallurgical and petroleum sectors by
November/December 2000.
*  Extension of the coverage of the system of pilot integrated environmental permits by
implementing pilot permits according the IPPC Directive 96/61 for at least 80% of all
large industrial enterprises (with 1000 employees and above) in the metallurgical,
chemical sectors by December 2001.
Framework of integrating environmental issues into privatization
23.   In addition to the above policy measures, our Government is committed to
adopting and adhering to an agreed set of procedures and conditions which are needed to
systeniatically incorporate environmental issues inito the privatization process. These will
increase the effectiveness of enforcing environmental laws and regulations pertaining to
privatization, and it will ensure the achievement of the EPSAL's objectives.
Agreed procedures
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs). EIAs, including an assessment of current
environmental performance and past contamination, will be prepared for each
enterprise under privatization according to Bulgarian regulations. The assessment of
past environmental liabilities to be included in the EIA will follow the
Methodological Guidelines for the Scope and Content of Past Environmental
Pollution Reports in the Privatization Process. According to the methodology, the
scope of environmental assessment will depend on the magnitude of environmental
risks. Adverse social impacts, if any, will be addressed during the EIA public
consultation process, through official complaints from affected people, as well as for
monitoring the effect of the activities identified under the EIAs, Remediation and



Annex I
Page 7 of 10
Compliance Plans.
* Remediation Plans. The environmental assessments will identify remedial measures
to protect human health and ecosystems and to upgrade environmental performance
of enterprises to meet Bulgaria and/or EU emission requirements. Remediation Plans
will specify measures, cost estimates of investments and time schedule for completing
remedial work needed to address environmental damage from companies' activities
prior to privatization..
.  Compliance Plans.  The EIA  will also examine the current environmental
performance of the enterprise or plant and will propose a plan to bring the operation
into compliance with relevant emission standards. The EIA conclusions will imply a
program of environmental investments for cleaner technologies and waste reduction
measures to bring into compliance the environmental performance of privatized
enterprises with Bulgarian and /or EU emission requirements. Compliance Plans will
determine specific temporary norms that will apply to enterprises during the transition
period until regular standards could be achieved. Compliance plans will outline time
bound program of environmental investments, which will be agreed as part of the
Sale Purchase Agreement.
* Negotiations. In accordance with the provisions of the Bulgarian environmental
legislation, the full EIA is subject to public consultation and discussion before it is
approved by the Expert Council of the MOEW/Regional Inspectorate. In practice,
these final stages of the EIA process will be completed after negotiations with the
selected bidder to ensure that the terms and requirements of the Framework
Remediation Plan and future environmental Compliance Plans are agreed with the
new owner before they are approved by the MOEW.
3 Sale Purchase Agreements. The sale purchase agreement should include (i) legal
references to the environmental obligations of the buyer; (ii) provisions for arbitration
in case the Government and buyer have future disagreements about the buyer's
environmental obligations; and (iii) environmental annexes including binding
Framework Remediation Plan (FRP) and Compliance Plan with explicit provisions
for financing, imnplementation, performance indicators, time limits and arbitrary
n-echanism, and Execution Agreements.
. Environmental Annexes. In case the environmental annexes cannot be agreed upon at
the time of the sale, the sale agreement will refer to the environmental annexes to be
added within an agreed period no later than 6 months from the sale at which time they
become binding parts of the sale agreement. The sale agreement will set an upper
limit to the cost of Remediation Plan (cost cap) based on environmental audits and
cost assessments of the remediation measures.
Execution Agreements. The buyer according to the Execution Agreement will be
responsible for the execution of the remedial works. The Execution Agreements will
include Framework Remediation Plans with schedules; benchmarks (stages of
remedial work to be undertaken) and performance indicators against which agreed
lump sum payments will be reimbursed by the Government to the buyer. The



Annex I
Page 8 of 10
implementation of FRP will be confirmed by the establishment of an
insurance/performance bond mechanism issued in agreed amounts and corresponding
with the cost of remedial measures.
24.   To achieve the objectives of the Environmental and Privatization Support
Program, the Government of Bulgaria will implement the Remediation and Compliance
Plans in consultation with the primary stakeholders to create public awareness, build
support for the proposed activities and will allow for community monitoring and
evaluation during implementation. To extend the community ownership of the EPSP we
will seek local input on social and environmental issues during implementation of the
program, and will ensure that community monitoring procedures and structures are in
place during project implementation. Further to that, the GOB will make its best efforts
to identify and address potential social issues arising from the implementation of the
EPSP activities in a manner consistent with the best social practices.  If adverse
environmental and social impact are identified during the public consultation process
under the EIA, or during the monitoring activities carried out under the EIA and under
the implementation of the remediation and compliance measures the Government will
take measures or will ensure that measures have been taken to mitigate any such impacts.
25.   To ensure that the social concerns are taken into account in the privatization of
state owned enterprises the Government has initiated a severance payment scheme to
provide support to workers laid-off as a result of the structural reform measures. The
EPSP program will provide diverse employment opportunities, additional new jobs and
business development in the private sector. In the medium and long run, it is expected
that the execution of the environmental investment programs under the Compliance plans
will prolong the demand for new jobs, which will partially offset negative social effect of
the downsizing of privatized enterprises.
Institutional Responsibilitiesfor the Execution of EPSAL
26.   Several agencies have been involved in the preparation of the loan and will
continue to exercise specific responsibilities under the Environment and Privatization
Support Program (EPSP).
Ministry of Environment and Waters
27.   MOEW  will take the lead in the (i) introduction and implementation of
environmental policy reform measures; (ii) implementation of pilot integrated permits for
selected enterprises from the metallurgical and chemical industries; (iii) review,
negotiation, and approval of EIAs, including Remediation and Compliance Plans, and
Execution Agreements acceptable to the Bank; (iv) oversight and enforcement of the
implementation of Remediation and Compliance Plans and Execution Agreements; (v)
inter-agency technical coordination as chair of the Oversight Technical Committee, and
as member of the inter-agency coordinating body; and (vi) monitoring and reporting on
the fulfillment of Bank loan tranche conditions concerning the MOEW's responsibilities.
28.   The MOEW will be responsible for submitting to the World Bank for review the
EIAs, including Framework Remediation, and Compliance Plans, of the privatized
enterprises, and for making revisions, as appropriate, based on comments from the Bank.



Annex I
Page 9 of 10
MOEW will be responsible for the approval of the Framework and detailed Remediation
Plans and Compliance Plans acceptable to the Bank. The MOEW, together with the
MOF and PA will sign legally binding Execution Agreements with the new owners of
privatized enterprises, acceptable to the Bank and will oversee the technical
implementation of the Execution Agreements. The MOEW will ensure that the Bank has
an opportunity to review and comment on the Execution Agreements before they are
finalized. During implementation of the FRP, the MOEW will be responsible for
initiating conflict resolution and arbitration mechanisms in cases when disputes arise. It
will ensure the efficient participation of its Regional Inspectorates in analyzing the effects
of the policy improvements and impact for implementation monitoring of the remediation
measures and Compliance plans. MOEW will take measures to improve the ability of the
Regional Inspectorates to efficiently perform environmental monitoring. The MOEW
will keep records for each enterprise under the EPSP of the timely fulfillment of the
conditions of Compliance and Remediation Plans.
Privatization Agency
29.   The PA will be responsible for (i) including the results of environmental audits
and assessments, as well as references to environmental requirements in the Information
Memoranda of bidding documents, and in the negotiation process; (ii) including
environmental clauses acceptable to the Bank, into the sale purchase agreement; (iii)
ensuring that the Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans and Execution
Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, are attached as integral parts of the Sales Purchase
Agreements.
30.   The PA will ensure that copies of the appropriate parts of Sale Purchase
Agreements, as well as the Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans and
Execution Agreements will be submitted to the Bank by January 20, 2000 for Neftochim,
Kremikovtsi and Assarel-Medet. The PA will also ensure that, and at the time of the sale,
or no later than six months thereafter, such documents will be submitted to the Bank for
the privatized enterprises considered under tranche two of the loan. The PA, through the
Oversight Committee and the inter-agency coordinating body, will facilitate the
implementation of Execution Agreements, and the resolution of potential disputes arising
during the implementation of Remediation and Compliance Plans.
Ministry of Finance
31.   The MOF will be responsible for Loan management and more specifically for: (i)
signing, together with the MOEW and PA the Execution Agreements with the buyers of
enterprises in the agreed sectors for the implementation of Environmental Remediation
Plans; (ii) ensuring that each year during the implementation of the EPSP, the projected
amounts needed for the implementation of Remediation Plans based on Execution
Agreements will be appropriated in the budget; (iii) record keeping of disbursements
from the Deposit Account in BNB; (iv) record keeping of disbursement into the
Remediation Accounts; (v) arranging for annual audits of the Deposit Account, and
Remediation Accounts; (vi) coordinating with the MOEW to ensure the availability of
adequate funds according to disbursement schedules set in the Execution Agreements;
(vii) provide to the Bank disbursement reports of the Deposit Account and Remediation
Accounts; (viii) provide progress reports to the Bank on fulfillment of tranche conditions.



Annex I
Page 10 of IO
EPSAL management and reporting will be a responsibility of the MOF. MOF has
nominated an employee to carry out the duty of Loan manager.
Institutional Coordination
32.   The Govemment recognizes the need for better institutional coordination in order
to accomplish the environmental objectives of the Environment and Privatization Support
Program (EPSP), supported by the Bank. This will require effective and efficient
collaboration of affected Government agencies. Therefore, an inter-agency consultative
mechansim consisting of the MOF, MOEW, PA and MOI will be established by Order of
the MOF By January 15, 2000 under the leadership of the MOF consisting of
representatives at the Deputy Minister/Deputy Executive Director levels supported by
technical experts to facilitate the integration of environmental issues into privatization
according to the agreed mechanisms.
33.   The technical, review and approval of execution of each stage of the remediation
programs of enterprises will be responsibility of an Oversight Technical Committee,
chaired by the Ministry of Environment and Waters and established by a Decision of the
Council of Ministers by January 15, 2000. It is also understood that the ability of the PA
to monitor the post-privatization process is critical for the success of the EPSP. To this
end, the PA will strengthen the capacity of its post-privatization monitoring and control
unit to strengthen the monitoring of investor's commitments and take measures against
non-compliance.
34.   We are pleased with the support the Bank has been extending to our Government
for the implementation of the structural reform and environmental management
improvements. We are confident that the implementation of the Government's policies
related to environmental liabilities in the privatization process will greatly benefit the
development of a viable private sector; will reduce health risks of the population; and will
improve enterprise environmental performance. We look forward to pursuing our
environmental goals and objectives across all sectors of the economy with vigor and
expect that your assistance will greatly enhance our capabilities to achieve these ends.
Pelter Z(h6e                                Evdokia Maneva
Deputy rime Minister and                    Minister of Environment and Waters
Minister of Economy



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
ENVIRONMENT AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY MATRIX: OBJECTIVES AND TRANCHE CONDITIONS
Components/objectives              Measures taken before the first         Measures to be taken before the   Measures to be taken before
Components/objectives   tranche release                         second tranche release              the third tranche release
A. Policy and Regulatory Reform
1. Support to the country's        Satisfactory macroeconomic performance,    Satisfactory macroeconomic        Satisfactory macroeconomic
restructuring and privatization    including continued compliance under the    performance included continued   performance included continued
program.                           Extended Arrangements with the IMF and    compliance under the Extended      compliance under the Extended
with the structural reforms supported by the   Arrangements with the IMF and with  Arrangements with the IMF and
Bank.                                   the structural reforms supported by the   with the structural reforms
Bank.                               supported by the Bank.
2. Develop legal basis for addressing    Amend the Law on Restructuring and
environmental liabilities.         Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprises and its amendments, and the
Environmental Protection Law to explicitly
retain the State's liability for past
environmental damages.
3. Reform environmental legislation to  Parliamentary approval of the Water Act
allow for the application of temporary   satisfactory to the Bank.
emission norms.
4. Provide a legal framework for    Parliamentary approval of the Subterranean
addressing off-site and hidden     Resources Act satisfactory to the Bank
liabilities; land use issues related to
contaminated land, and a compensation
mechanism for landowners.
Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a
Regulation on the principles, conditions and
procedures for settling the State liabilities
for historical pollution.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Components/objectives             Measures taken before the first    Measures to be taken before the   Measures to be taken before
tranche release                   second tranche release             the third tranche release
B. Integrate Environment Issues
into Privatization Transactions
1. Develop regulations about        Adopt an Order of the Minister of
procedures and methodologies to carry   Environment and Waters of Guidelines for
out ElAs, assess environmental risks,   the Scope and Content of Past
and integrate findings into privatization   Contamination Damages.
transactions.                       Prepare and approve Framework
Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans
for Kremikovtsi, Neftochim, and Assarel
Medet, annexed to the Sales Purchase
Agreements.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Components/objectives              Measures taken before the first          Measures to be taken before         Measures to be taken before
tranche release                  the second tranche release           the third tranche release
Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements    Satisfactory progress according      Satisfactory progress according
including legally binding Framework      performance indicators agreed with the   performance indicators agreed with
Remediation Plans, Compliance Plans and    Bank in the implementation of       the Bank in the implementation of
Execution Agreements for Neftochim,       Framework Remediation Plans,         Framework Remediation Plans,
Kremikovtsi and Assarel Medet, under      Compliance Plans, and Execution      Compliance Plans and Execution
which at least 67 per cent of the equity  Agreements of the enterprises        Agreements for enterprises
considered for the first tranche.    privatized as conditions of the first
interest in the enterprise is transferred to a                                 adscn  rnhs
and second tranches.
private owner, for which the total cost of  Signature of Sales Purchase
remediation exceeds $25 million'.        Agreements including legally binding
Framework Remediation Plans,
Compliance Plans and Execution
Agreements for at least 3 additional
large (over 1000 employees each)
enterprises, under which at least 67 per
cent of the equity interest in the
enterprise is transferred to a private
owner, and for which the agreed
cumulative cost of remediation for
these enterprises and those privatized
as a condition for tranche one exceeds
$50 million.'
(i) Environmental clauses acceptable to the Bank included in the Sales Purchase Agreement; (ii) Remediation Plan with cost caps approved by MOEW satisfactory to the Bank, annexed to the Sales Purchase
Agreement; (iii) Execution Agreement signed with MOEW. PA and MOF satisfactory to the Bank and annexed to the Sales Purchase Agrcement.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Components/objectives            Measures taken before the first        Measures to be taken before        Measures to be taken before
tranche release                the second tranche release          the third tranche release
C. Framework for Improved
Environmental Compliance
1. Accelerate the harmonization with    Develop and approve a timetable and  Pilot integrated environmental   Pilot integrated permits according to
EU Directive on IPPC and develop and  targets for implementing pilot integrated  permits issued accordaning to the EU   the EU Council Directive 96/61 on
implement a pilot program for      permits substantially according to the EU  Council Directive 96/61 on IPPC to at  IPPC to at least 80% of all large
accelerated adoption of the EU     Council Directive 96/61 on IPPC.         least 5 large enterprises (each with at  industrial enterprises (each with at
Directive for the metallurgical and                                        least 1,000 employees) in the      least 1000 employees) in the
chemicals sectors (ISIC 351-354, 371-                                      metallurgical and chemical sectors.    metallurgical and chemical sectors,
372).                                                                                                         and ensure compliance with the terms
of the pilot permits.
2. Introduce compliance agreements  Agreement on legally binding Compliance    Satisfactory progress (based on  Satisfactory progress (based on
with privatized enterprises to ensure  Plans annexed to the Sales Purchase  performance indicators agreed with    performance indicators agreed with
their compliance with Bulgarian/EU  Agreements for the enterprises privatized as  the Bank) in the implementation of    the Bank) in the implementation of
environmental requirements.         a condition for the first tranche.     Framework Remediation and          Framework Remediation and
Compliance Plans and Execution    Compliance Plans and Execution
Agreements considered in the first  Agreements considered for the first
tranche.                          two tranches.
Agreement on legally binding      Contracted amounts for remediation
Compliance Plans annexed to the   and made payments from the
Sales Purchase Agreements for 3   Remediation Accounts for enterprises
additional large enterprises.     privatized as a condition for tranche
one and tranche two of an aggregated
amount acceptable to the Bank.
3. Increase institutional capacity for  Establish an inter-agency coordinating body  Maintain the inter-agency  Maintain the inter-agency
post-privatization oversight and   with the participation of MOF, MOEW, PA   coordinating body with membership   coordinating body with membership
enforcement of compliance.         and MOI to oversee the implementation of   satisfactory to the Bank to oversee the  satisfactory to the Bank to oversee
the EPSP.                              implementation of the EPSP.        the implementation of the EPSP.
Taken measures satisfactory to the  Taken measures satisfactory to the
Bank, or ensured that such measures   Bank, or ensured that such measures
have been taken to mitigate any   have been taken to mitigate adverse
adverse social impact of the EPSP  social impact of the EPSP identified
identified during EIA public      during EIA public consultation
consultation process or during EIA  process or during EIA monitoring
monitoring activities.            activities



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
Ministry of Environment and Waters (MOEW)
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL)
Loan Coordinator's Responsibilities
1. IPPC implementation
* Submit to the Bank, timetable for the implementation of EU IPPC Directive 96/61,
including a list of large enterprises in the metallurgical and chemical sectors which
will be considered in the pilot phase of the IPPC Directive implementation.
* Report to the Bank semi-annually on the progress in issuing pilot integrated permits.
* Monitor and keep records on environmental compliance of each enterprise included
in the pilot phase of the EU IPPC Directive implementation
2. Environmental Compliance and Remediation
.  EIAs
0 Ensure timely preparation and review of EIAs for all enterprises included under the
EPSP.
> Submit Framework Remediation Plans to the Bank for review and comments.
> Submit to the Bank relevant EIA documentation for review and approval including
records of public consultations.
> Coordinate with the SARA unit, PA, and PATAs the preparation and review of
additional environmental and cost assessments and Framework Remediation Plans.
> Coordinate with the PA and MOF the timely negotiation and agreement on
Compliance Plans and Framework Remediation Plans including cost caps.
* Execution Agreements
> Coordinate with the PA and MOF for timely negotiation and signing of Execution
Agreements.
> Submit to the Bank for review and comments draft Execution Agreements.
> Oversee the implementation of remediation measures according to implementation
schedule of the Execution Agreements.
* Implementation
> Keep records of technical implementation and environmental compliance of each
enterprise included in the EPSP and in accordance with perforrnance indicators
established in the Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans.
> Review phase completion reports submitted by the investors when agreed stages of
work are completed, verify technical compliance with agreed environmental and
technical standards and performance indicators, and provide technical verification of
phase completion reports to the MOF.
> Coordinate with the Loan Manager in MOF to update disbursement schedules and
plans.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
> Initiate resolution to problems and arbitration, as necessary.
Reporting
> Provide bi-annual progress reports on the environmental perforrnance of enterprises
implementing Framework Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans and according to
a set of performance indicators agreed with the Bank
> Submit bi-annual progress reports on the implementation of the Execution
Agreements to the inter-government coordinating body and to the Bank.
> Complete parts of the Implementation Completion Report related to technical
implementation.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL)
Loan Manager's Responsibilities
Responsibilities
1. General
* Oversee the timely fulfillment of loan conditions.
* Report to the Bank on fulfillment of loan tranche conditions.
* Loan administration according the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2. Implementation and disbursement
* Coordinate signing of Execution Agreements.
* Coordinate with MOEW, PA and MOI the organization of regular meetings of the
inter-agency coordinating group.
- Process the MOF's request to open a Deposit Account in BNB and Remediation
Accounts in accordance with the agreed financial management provisions.
- Request the Bank to deposit loan funds in the Deposit Account upon notification of
fulfillment of loan conditions.
* Ensure that MOF maintain adequate funds in the Deposit Account and in the
Remediation Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and
the supplemental letter No. 2 to the Loan Agreement.
* Keep records of all financial transactions of the Deposit Account and Remediation
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the
supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement.
* Arrange for payments from Remediation Accounts against completed remedial works
according to the procedures outlined in the Execution Agreements.
* Arrange for annual audits of Deposit Account and Remediation Accounts.
* Coordinate with MOEW to ensure availability of funds from the central budget
according implementation schedules and provisions of the Execution Agreements.
* Provide to the Bank bi-annual progress reports of disbursements from the Deposit
Account and Remediation Accounts.
* Coordinate the Borrower's contribution to the Loan Implementation Completion
Report and write sections that relate to loan administration.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Privatization Agency (PA)
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL)
Loan Coordinator's Responsibilities
1. Preparation of sales
v Coordinate with Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents (PATAs), where
applicable, to ensure that:
- Preparation of environmental assessments and Remediation Plans is coordinated
with the MOEW.
- Negotiations with prospective buyers include agreements on environmental
issues.
* Coordinate with the MOEW to ensure that Framework Remediation Plans are
prepared and reviewed according to the privatization time schedule, and submitted to
the Bank for review.
2. Sales Purchase Agreements
* Ensure that environmental references, acceptable to the Bank, are included in the
Sales Purchase Agreements.
* Sign Execution Agreements together with MOEW and MOF.
* Ensure that Compliance and Framework Remediation Plans, and Execution
Agreements approved by the MOEW and acceptable to the Bank, are negotiated and
concluded with the Buyers, and annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
3. Post-privatization monitoring
* Over a period of 3 to 4 years monitor investor's commitments to implement
environmental improvements in the privatized enterprises included in the EPSP.



Annex 4
Page I of I
Timetable of Key Loan Processing Events
l.    Time Taken to Prepare the Loan                    18 Months
2.    Identification Mission                            July  1998
3.    Appraisal Mission                                 May 22,1999
4.    Negotiations                                      December 7/8,1999
5.    Board Presentation                                February 24, 2000
6.    Planned date of Effectiveness                     March 2000



Annex 5
Bulpria - Seected Key Economic Indicators - 1996-1999
Actual          Estiate   Projeted
Indicator                     1996        1997        1998        1999
Gross Domestic Product
GDP (USS million)                           9831       10146       12255       12286
Real GDP growth (%)                         -10.1        -7.0        3.5         1.5
Investment (% of GDP)                         8.4        11.4       14.7        15.5-
Public                                     1.4         1.9         2.7        3.4
Private                                    7.0         9.5        12.0       12.1
Consumption (% of GDP)                       88.5        83.1       86.3        89.5
Public Sector Balances 1/
Expenditures (% of GDP)                     45.3        34.2        35.8       39.5
Revenues (% of GDP)                         32.6        31.7        36.8       38.0
Deficit (-) (% of GDP)                      -12.7       -2.5         1.0       -1.5
Extemal Financing (% of GDP)                 -2.4       -1.3        -1.0        -0.7
Balance of Payments
Financing Requirements (IJSS million)          -27        1789        1793       1681
o/w Current Account Deficit 2/              -522        -818        -86         283
o/w Debt Service                            1248         932        1296       1203
o/w Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves   -753        1675        583         195
Financing Sources (US$ million)                 -27       1789        1793       1681
olw Unrequited Current Official Transfers    103         129         71          50
o/w Donor Financing 3/                       270        639         870         711
o/w FDI and Other Private Flows                8         640        221         545
o/w Arrears Clearance and Debt Relief        105         103        -18          50
o/w Others, inc. Errors & Omissions         -513         278        650         325
Financing Gap (US$ million)                                                         0
External debt
Total External Debt (in % of GDP)           102.3       97.2        80.8        79.0
Debt Service (in % of total exports)        19.4        14.4       22.1        23.4
1/ General Government Budget, inci. SFRD.
2/ Excluding iriterest payments and official transfers.
3/ Including Use of Fund credit, other budgetary/balance support.
Source: Official data, M  staff and Bank staff preliminary estimates.



Annex 6
Bulgaria - Key Exposure lndicaton
Actual               Estimate Projected
Indicator           1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Total debt outstanding and    9805   10306   1008    9859    9907    9709
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Netdisbursements (USSm)'       211    -334    -384      267      232     302
Total debt service (TDS)       686    1144    1248      932    1296    1203
(USSm)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGSb                    185.8   148.8   156.3   152.0   169.0   196.7
TDO/GDP                     100.2    78.6   102.3    97.2    80.8    79.0
TDS/XGS                      13.0    16.5    19.4    14.4    22.1    23.4
Concessional/TDO              1.6      1.8     1.8     1.6      1.6     1.8
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS             2.3      2.7     3.6     5.4      5.4     5.9
Preferred creditor DS/public  23.3    34.2    29.9    43.2    47.0    30.1
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                   0.3      0.4     0.7     0.7      1.0     1.1
IBRD TDO (JSSm)d             415      444      453     501     697    859
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)     ..      ..      ..
IDA TDO (IJS$m)d                0       0        0       0       0        0
IFC (USSm)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nongu-arnteed, use of IMF credits an
term credit.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks
and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.



Annex 7
Page I of I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
Operations Portfolio
As of December 31, 1999
Difference Between
expected                 Last PSR
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual               Supervision
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/             Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 9
Active Projects
BG-PE-8316       1993   BULGARIA                        ENERGY                                    93.00       0.00       0.00     31.80          34.00         0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8319       1994   BULGARIA                        WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING             98.00       0.00      41.00     36.60          59.10        24.30       S          S
BG-PE-8318       1996   BULGARIA                        HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING               26.00       0.00       0.00     16.50          18.20         0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8315       1996   BDZ                             RAILWAY REHABILITATION                    95.00       0.00       0.00     22.80          26.62         0.00 D                S
BG-PE-8323       1997   BULGARIA                        SOCIAL INSURANCE                          24.30       0.00       0.00     13.30           9.50         0.00       S          HS
ADMINISTRATION
BG-PE-33965      1998   BULGARIA                        ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION PILOT           16.00       0.00       0.00     15.80           8.50         0.00       S          S
BG-PE-57925      1999   BULGARIA                        AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT            75.76       0.00       0.00       0.00          0.00         0.00       S          S
LOAN I
BG-PE-55156      1999   BULGARIA                        REGIONAL INITIATIVE FUND                   5.00       0.00       0.00       2.30          1.70         0.00      HS          S
BG-PE-51151      1999   BULGARIA                        SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT              80.00       0.00       0.00     38.90           36.6         0.00       S          S
BG-PE-8317       2000   BULGARIA                        FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR           96.00       0.00       0.00       0.00          0.00         0.00      HS          S
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Total                                                                                            609.06       0.00     41.00    178.00          194.22        24.30
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Data as of December 31,1999
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
Status of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -December-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Euromerchant FND         0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996                  Interlease Inc.          3.21     .30    0.00    0.00    1.71     .30    0.00    0.00
1997                  Sofia Hilton            10.80    0.00    2.00    9.50    3.27    0.00    2.00    0.00
1998                  Devnya Cement           29.98    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  BAC Bank                 0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00
1999                  Isiklar Holding         13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00   13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00
2000                   Kronospan Group        12.62    0.00    0.00    9.08    8.22    0.00    0.00    5.91
Total Portfolio:                   70.51    6.80    7.00   18.58   50.31    6.30    2.65    5.91
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                  BPBANK                  10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 8
Page I of 2
Bulgaria at a glance
Eurous &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-      m
Buloaria      Asia  income       Development dlamond
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                        8.3       476      2 285                 Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. USSI                   1.230      2,320     1.230
GNP tAtlas method. USS billions)                       10.2     1106      2.818
Averaoe annual orowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%i                                         -0.6       0 2       1 2
Labor force (%l                                        -0.9       05        1.3      GNP                             Gross
Most recent estImate ilatest vear available. 1992-981                               capita       <       /        enrnlrmfnt
Povertv I% of ooDulafion below national foveflv line)   33
Urban Dooulation (% of total oooulation)                69        67        42
Life exoectancv at birth tvears)                        71        69        69
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                16        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of oooulalion)                 100                  84
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation aae 15+)                                        19
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-aae ooDulation)   99        92       111               Bulgaria
Male                                                 100                 116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                98                 113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                              ..    28.4       10.1      12.3
Gross domestic investment/G)P                         32.9       11.4      14.7
Exoorts of aoods and services/GOP                     40.8       61.9      45.2    I                Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                            31.1       16.9      13.7
Gross national savinos/GDP                            30.2       15.7      12.9
Current account balance/GDP                            -2.5       4.2      -2.1      Domestic
Interest oavments/GDP                                  1.4        5.1       4.2     Savings                      Investment
Total debVGDP                                         29.1       99.5      82.2
Total debt servicelexoorts                            17.2       16.5      20.3
Present value of debtlGDP                                           - 
Present value of debt/excorts
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998
(averaoe annual orowth)
GOP                                  3.6     -4.0      -7.0       3.5                         Bulgana
GNP Der caoita                       3.5     -3.0     -5.5        4.8                         Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services        6.2    -12.2      3.1      -15.6
STRUCTJIRE nf fhe ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                         ;
Aoriculture                                           11.4       23.8      18.7
Industrv                                        -     59.5       25.3      25.5   .20 -
Manufacturina                                                  18.6      17.0    -
Services                                              25.9       40.6      46.2    i20
Private conaumotion                                   61.5       70.3      71.2    -40
General aovemmentconsumDtion                           7.4       12.8      15.1                      GDI    -GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                         42.6       56.4     46.3
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(averaae annual arowth)
Aariculture                                  -2.5      -2.6      32.9       1.4    30-
Industrv                                      6.4     -6.4      -11.3       4.3    25
Manufacturin                                                                     :10/
Services                                      3.8     -5.5      -19.3       0 5
Private consumotion                           3.3      -4.3     -17.2       8.2            93
General covernment consumotion                8.6     -4.3       -1 4       4 0    20
Gross domestic investment                     3.2      -8.8      33.1      10.3    - -
Imoorts of aoods and services                 6.1    -16.3       -2.7      -2.8                -Exports      ,'-mports
Gross national aroduct                        3.7     -3.8       -6.2       4.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missina the diamond will
be incomolete



Annex 8
Pag e2of 2
Bulkaria V
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Infaton (%)
Domestic price-s
(% change)
Consumer prices                                               1,082.3     22.3     ,D00              
Implicit GDP deflator                                  0.1      948.7     22.2      am -
400 
Government finance                                                                  200 --                    -.
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                   0
Cunrent revenue                                       60.2       32.7     35.7               93   94   95   go   97   so
Current budget balance                                            1.7      2.5                     GDP deflator  cCP-
Overall surplusldeficit                                           2.1      2.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977      1987      1997      1998     Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 10,287      4,940    4,293     E,000
Other metal                                          1,801        5.00 ;.               
Other agriculture                                    1,479         ..        .     40 -
Manufactures                                 -.
Total imports (cif)                            11  298 ..  11,298  4,932    4,995
Food                                                 409                         2.000-_'
Fuel and energy                                    1,565            '.
Capital goods                                      5,128        831      504        0 -
92   93   94   95  95   97   98         
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                           95        97        87                                                          < s
Imoortoriceindex(1995=100.                              65        87        85                *Exports      Himports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              148       112       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millionsl                              1977      1987      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports. of goods and services                 ..11,444        6,277    5,548       6-
Imports ofgoods and services                    ..11,959        5,730    5,716      4
Resource balance                                      -515       547      -168      2 ,
Net income                     -                      -314      -357      -314      2
Net current transfers                                  108       237       236      4-
Current account balance                               -721       427      -253      -e
Financing items (net)                                 389       1,248      836    -12
Changes in net reserves                                332    -1,675      -583          92   93   94   95   96   97   98         .   -
Memo:
Reserves includino oold fUSS millions)         ..       ..    2.474    3.057
Conversion rate (DEC. localUSS)                 .      1.3    1,696.0   1.760,3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
fUSS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           38    8,266    10,095   10,072
IBRD                                         0         0       501      4                       G740A:477
IDA                                          0         0         0         0                                 c 1 120
Total debt service                              2    1,989      1,045    1,137
IBRD                                         0        0         47       58                                        212
IDA                                          0         0         0         0
IDA                                                           i              _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E. 1,117 --  
Composition of net resource flows
Offiidal grants                              0        0        129        59
Official creditors                           0      651        251      310                                    i
Private creditors                            1      779       -129        -8
Foreign direct investment                                      507      401
Portfolio equity                                               133      -219             F: 6,406
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0         0       140       101     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0        0        101      196      8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         o         0        16       20      C. - IKF                      r.                -
Net flows                                    0         0        85       176
Interest payments                            0         0        31        36
Net transfers                                0        0         54       139
Development Economics                                                                                                 9116/99
-~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            '.'-''''"./ ,.-
.4~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ,, ,,,.,



Concordance Table
Republic of Bulgaria
Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
Agreements Reached and Recommendations in the PR          Corresponding Section of Legal
Documents
K.4.29 Prior to furnishing to the bank a request for withdrawal of loan   Article II, Section 2.02 (b)
funds, the MOF will open and maintain in BNB a Deposit Account to
exclusively hold loan proceeds in accordance with terns and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
G 4.16 (b) The Loan will be disbursed in three tranches according to    Article II, Section 2.02 (d) (i)
the following conditions: Conditions for the second tranche.
*  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including continued
compliance under the Extended Arrangements with the IMF and
with the structural reforms supported by the Bank.
*  Pilot integrated environmental permits issued according to the EU
IPPC Directive to at least 5 large enterprises in the metallurgical
and chemical sectors.
*  Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments for the
privatized enterprises as the basis of agreeing on Framework
Remediation and Compliance Plans annexed to the Sales Purchase
Agreements.
*  Satisfactory progress, according to performance indicators agreed
with the Bank, in the irnplementation of Framework Remediation
Plans, Compliance Plans and the time-bound implementation
plans set out in the Execution Agreements relating to Neftochim
Petrochemical and Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel
Complex, and Assarel Medet.
*  Signature of Sales Purchase Agreement for at least three
additional large industrial enterprises, under which at least 67
percent of the equity interest in the enterprise is transferred to a
private owner and the purchaser has paid the required down
payment, and the following requirements are fulfilled:
-Compliance Plans approved by the MOEW, acceptable to the
Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
-Framework Remediation Plans with cost caps approved by the
MOEW, acceptable to the Bank are annexed to the Sales
Purchase Agreements.
-Execution Agreements, signed by the MOEW, MOF and PA
satisfactory to the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase
Agreements.
-The agreed cumulative total cost of Remediation Plans for
these enterprises and those privatized as a condition of the first
tranche exceeds US$ 50 million.
*  Continued  maintenance  of the  inter-agency  coordinating
mechanism established as a condition for tranche one to oversee



the implementation of the EPSP.
* Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such
measures have been taken, to mitigate any significant adverse
social impact of the EPSP identified during the public
consultation process under the EIA or during monitoring activities
carried out under the EIA.
G 4.16 (c) The Loan will be disbursed in three tranches according to    Article II, Section 2.02 (d) (ii)
the following conditions: Conditions for the third tranche.
*  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance, including continued
compliance under the Extended Arrangements with the IMF and
with the structural reforms supported by the Bank.
*  Issuance of pilot integrated environmental permits to at least 80%
of all large industrial enterprises in the metallurgical and chemical
sectors, and thereafter ensured compliance of all such enterprises
with the terms of the pilot permnits.
*  Satisfactory progress, according to performance indicators agreed
with the Bank, in the implementation of the Framework
Remediation Plans, Compliance Plans, and the time-bound
implementation plans set out in the Execution Agreements for
enterprises privatized as conditions of the first and second
tranches.
*  Continued  maintenance  of the  inter-agency  coordinating
mechanism established as a condition for tranche one to oversee
the implementation of the EPSP.
*  Made payments from the Remediation Accounts for activities
under the Framework Remediation Plans above in an aggregate
amount acceptable to the Bank
*  Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such
measures have been taken, to mitigate any significant adverse
social impact of the EPSP identified during the public
consultation process under the EIA or during monitoring activities
carried out during under the EIA
K 4.28. Upon notification of Loan effectiveness and approval of the    Article II, Section 2.04
fulfillment of tranche one conditions, the Bank at the request of the
MOF will deposit the proceeds of tranche one into a deposit Account
in the BNB. Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan
Account a front-end fee amounting to Euro 495,000.
L. 4.32. Reporting requirement will ensure that the Bank is able to  Article III, Section 3.01 (a) (b) (c)
monitor the developments in certain areas of concern. Progress in
implementing the EPSP will be monitored through semi-annual
reviews. The Government will submit to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports on the execution of the EPSP. Performance will be
monitored according to an agreed set of monitoring indicators.
Article IlI, Section 3.02 (a) (b) (c)
K. 4.30. The Government will maintain accounts and records, or



3
ensure that such items are maintain, showing that loan disbursements
will be in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and
the supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and
records will be maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. The MOF
will arrange for the audit of the Deposit Account and Remediation
Accounts in accordance with the auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank and by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The MOF will make the
report on such audit of such records available to the Bank.
World Bank User
P:\BULGARIA\RURENV\ENV-REM.SUP\3LENN\CONCORDA.DOC
1/18/00 4:57 PM



MAP SECTION






RIBD 30729
2'2'                        222'                                                      2                          26'                          27'                          2/                           29
_ *  Kosrava                                 R  O    M    A    N    I A                        .lerito
44'    FE                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44R
.6~~~~~~~~~~~.5
ToL;er'   *   "' ,% j Cobb                                                                                     <$""               "-"        A Iaa
FED.      j REP  R"ovt A'tra  Or             N       Cogy hto          O      L /                           RAZGX  :A               orae    r    Tbl
,____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Karlinava..                                                                                    900sJ04'..
220 2       A3 _Y-                          . ftSA
O F                                                                         P A N 
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                              K. iat,na  Dini
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~e I                                  Cheo1 B.Z$g                                                                         ,1.,~               P.e          (    ,2X    OLS BONAkRIES
(SERB./MONT.)                                              MeAdRA                                                                                               P N    ; eo  4 6 0 8
> (_ )   \     j )   ~~~~T._ _"  _3 .                                                                                                                                                KLMTR
, ACECOND,. ~ - I r <~ -~= ,- . Tsm   spoue ytne  nl esZga                                          wei   afoavec      W        orld an                  /.
42                                                                                                                                                                                                             i .....,.t.e"'  i-i  42
9,~~~~A,
"Bakre      s           -     ee                                                  m/
'Rode~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K11 r                                                 7
s~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~K .EN"a'.  TUBeKEY              --                                                     --m                                                  nyj d' cerbe  t Roenetz  a m Oajofh Wrl dalLGou 
i'9oooo0 .-~-          Samkec (.                   deafRB  '< --  '                                          o\ev"- R.-            hC   A
N.                     0Manesdr      ,.r'  >-.s      Pacardohik        a .    _.  C.irpan             ..zrN.xB    ofB                                      ...R  \ I,
K,;,.                                                                                             b7p.-  ?- CoElnkn-
42                   ..~~~~~~~ku,BIoo~~~~~~~oeo -od     V  aedParea A-ooco                                                 -                                         o          Rco
-A2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                           a.                                                                           2
aaiog           BeteL~~~~~~~~  P V IV                      M '-       4'
Dokrrehta ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '~~~~~~~~ ~~27'  TURKEY                                                s'29'
~~~~~ ~~~~~,.                                                        4(~~~~~~~~~~~~sra~~~T d -To
FYR                            ' Delehee  ,~~~~~~~~o    '->~D   Y-nip          '"6i            -J.                                                                 BULGARIA
MACEDONIA                                                                -M.1 ~                                                                 ENVIRONMENT AND PRIVATIZATION
i-I Pt   To Itromo                                                 /              j                 ~~~~~SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Mao!                                                                                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
22-                            23-.4                                                                                                                                               OBLAST CAPITALS
t*NGOOt  \  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           fl  I?  F  E  r   F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToK.motioi                            I*                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
HUN- ~ ~    ~ ~       ,GeRIrERE                                              - E                                                                                              '   ROADS
""(   ROMANIA                                                                                                                       N41'                                           PORTS
"'--'5                                                                           "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIRS
'FED REP t----              '                      1
Y                                                                                                                                                                          2~~~~~~~i~
ISERB./MONTI   B ULGARIA                                                                                                                                                    o      2      4,0    60       80    tOO
(  S                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIIORrETERS
-             76~~~~Ti e mp aa prd-cd by the Mop Do-ag Emt of Th. World Sock
j~AIA'Y  r--                    T UJRKETY                                                                                                                              ha/rw o- Va eop do oot iopy.o heprto EeWrd Boek tS-Pa,
0  I                                                                                                           any judgment en the bagel atotos of erg territory, or ant' erdor,oe,oot~~~~~- j~g  I -th.fg. ".P"Y;  h" v'"1'1~     -d--
or-00pteo  oPsor -oodnia
ORRECE  Aa4e'., " ~~~~~~~~~L24'                                                25'                           24'~
FEBRLJART 2000



