                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28982

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-45380)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 49.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                                                 FOR A

    BULGARIA ENVIRONMENTAL AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                              June 22, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 12, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = BGN
                                            1 = US$ 0.617704
                                      US$ 1 = 1.61890

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGN     Bulgarian Leva
BNB     Bulgarian National Bank
BOP     Balance of Payments
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBA     Currency Board Arrangement
CEE     Central and Eastern Europe
COM     Council of Ministers
CP      Compliance Plans
DISAE   Development of Implementation Strategies for Approximation and Environment
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EA      Environmental Assessment
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMS     Environmental Management Strategy
EPA     Environmental Protection Agency
EPSAL   Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
EPSP    Environment and Privatization Support Program
EU      European Union
FESAL   Financial and Entreprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FI      Financial Intermerdiary
FRP     Framework Remediation Plans
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOB     Government of Bulgaria
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMEC    Interministerial Expert Council
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPPC    Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control
MDK     MDK Copper Smelter
MOEW    Ministry of Environment and Waters
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOI     Ministry of Industry
OC      Oversight Committee
PA      Privatization Agency
PAL     Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PHARE   European Union Development Program
PATAS   Privatization Advisers and Transactions Agents
REI     Regional Environmental Inspectorate
SARA    EU Privatization Assistance Program

SOE    State-Owned Entreprises
TA     Technical Assistance

                           Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
                         Country Director   Anand K. Seth (ECCU5)
                           Sector Director  Laura Tuck (ECSSD)
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Adriana Damianova (ECSSD)

                                            BULGARIA
BULGARIA ENVIRONMENTAL AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
  1. Project Data                                                                    1
  2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
  4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
  5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
  6. Sustainability                                                                12
  7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
  8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
  9. Partner Comments                                                              16
  10. Additional Information                                                       18
  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
  Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
  Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
  Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P057927                                                  Project Name: BULGARIA ENVIRONMENTAL AND
                                                                     PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Team Leader: Adriana Jordanova Damianova                             TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BULGARIA ENVIRONMENTAL AND                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-45380
                            PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT ADJUSTMENT
                            LOAN
   Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (50%); Central government administration (30%);
                            Other social services (10%); Mining and other extractive (5%);
                            General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (5%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (P); Law reform (S); Social risk coping (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/23/1998                                     Effective: 03/31/2000                04/21/2000
     Appraisal: 04/29/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/24/2000                                      Closing: 07/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA/MIN. OF ENVIR. AND WATERS & MIN. OF
                                           FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Adriana J. Damianova                           Adriana J. Damianova
ICR Primary Author:             Gayane Minasyan; Bernard
                                Baratz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S

                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The socialist system left Bulgaria with serious environmental problems and relatively weak and
ineffective institutional and regulatory systems to manage them. Unsustainable environmental management
practices resulted in environmental "hot spots", typically around large industrial plants, leaving the local
population exposed to unacceptably high levels of pollution, and the accumulation of hazardous substances
which contaminated drinking water resources and threatened ecosystems with irreversible damage. In 1999,
after a slow start, the Bulgarian privatization program accelerated with a focus on the large industrial
plants responsible for these high levels of pollution. By December 31, 1999 about 78 percent of long term
assets of State Owned Enterprises (SOE) in sectors other than energy, transport, and infrastructure had
been privatized or placed under liquidation or insolvency proceedings. Privatization of large SOEs involved
the sale of controlling stakes to strategic investors, while the sale of small SOEs focused on speed and
transparency. At the time, the Government's goal was to complete by March 31, 2000, divestiture of SOEs
in all sectors except energy, transport, and infrastructure. At the beginning of privatization, the
Government did not pay special attention to environmental issues. Lack of information about the extent of
past environmental liabilities and measures needed to address them caused delays in privatizing a number
of highly polluting enterprises. In other cases, lack of attention to environmental issues resulted in ongoing
disputes and unresolved problems. As the Government embarked on an ambitious large-scale privatization
program, concerns were raised about the possibility that large and poorly defined environmental liabilities
would deter reputable investors. The Government made the strategic choice to assume environmental
liabilities and set up clear environmental performance objectives by dealing with past damage to
environment and reducing the investment risk especially where the risks were large compared to the value
of privatized companies. This was particularly important for privatization transactions in the ferrous and
non ferrous metallurgy, chemical and mining sector. With preparation of the EPSAL, the Government
demonstrated its commitment and readiness to integrate environmental issues into the privatization process.



Objectives: The original objective of the Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan
(EPSAL), was to assist the Government of Bulgaria in achieving environmental improvements and support
privatization of highly polluting enterprises, and harmonization with EU environmental requirements. The
loan supported comprehensive reform of Bulgaria's environmental policies through establishment of a
policy and regulatory framework for incorporating environmental issues into privatization, and measures to
accelerate implementation of the EU Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control on a pilot
basis. It also supported the Government's objective to protect human health and sensitive ecosystems.

Assessment of Project Objectives: The EPSAL objectives addressed essential priorities for economic
development recognized by both the Bulgarian Government and the World Bank. They directly supported
the CAS (April 9, 1998) objectives on supporting Government progress in macroeconomic stabilization
with durable structural reforms. In particular, the CAS supported the Government's efforts to accelerate
reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors. In parallel, the CAS included environmental initiatives that
supported the objectives of protecting and improving the environment and human health, and prudent and
rational utilization of natural resources. Loan objectives also supported the Government's approach to a
medium-term plan for environmental policy reform, as outlined in the Environmental Strategy Update and
Follow-up study, and articulated in the Environment and Privatization Support Program (EPSP). The focus
of the loan was to achieve environmental improvements and support privatization of highly polluting
enterprises by reforming environmental legislation, establishing a consistent framework for integrating



                                                       - 2 -

environmental issues into privatization, and accelerating harmonization with EU environmental
requirements and practices. Though the program was prepared in 1999 and its' objectives were included in
the 1998 CAS, they maintained relevance throughout the entire EPSAL program. They also support the
current CAS (April 16, 2002) objectives of promoting competitive private sector-led growth with
environmental mitigation of newly privatized industries, and actions to expedite EU accession).

Overall, the EPSAL's objectives were appropriate for achieving balanced and sustained economic growth
in the country. Furthermore the objectives remain valid as evidenced by the Government's effort to address
environmental liabilities beyond project supported activities and replicate the privatization model to a
number of new enterprises.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
The EPSAL was designed as a multi-tranche adjustment operation and provided budgetary support to the
Government for:

(i) development of policy and regulatory reform, which included: (a) amendments to the Privatization Law
to clearly exempt the buyers of state-owned enterprises from liability for past environmental damage; (b)
clarification of procedures and financing mechanisms for addressing state liability; and (c) revisions to the
Subterranean Resources Act and Water Act to clarify responsibilities for past contamination,
environmental assessments, permitting and other issues important for addressing environmental liabilities
and the ongoing environmental performance of privatized enterprises.
(ii) establishing a framework for integrating environmental liabilities into privatization, which included
development of regulations to address environmental liabilities, specifically (a) introduction of systematic
auditing and environmental impact assessment (EIA) requirements for all major industrial enterprises prior
to privatization; (b) development of a risk assessment methodology mandated under EIAs; (c) preparation
of remediation plans; and (d) the inclusion of execution agreements in sales purchase agreements.
(iii) developing a framework for improving environmental performance and harmonizing with EU
environmental requirements, which included: (a) the piloting, introduction and gradual phase-in of
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control regulation and permitting; (b) preparation and implementation
of environmental compliance plans to bring privatized enterprises into compliance with environmental
regulations as a step for further compliance requirement with the integrated permits. Besides satisfactory
macroeconomic performance, continued compliance under the Extended Fund Facility with the IMF and
World Bank supported structural reforms, was a standing condition for release of each EPSAL tranche.




The table below illustrates sequencing of conditions related to each component under three consecutive


                                                    - 3 -

tranches.

COMPONENT                      TRANCHE CONDITIONS
TRANCHE 1                      Satisfactory rating
(US$15,500,000.00)
Development of policy and      --Parliamentary approval of the Water Act establishing a comprehensive legal
regulatory reform              framework for environmentally and economically sustainable use of water resources
                               based on river basin management principle.
                               --Parliamentary approval of the Subterranean Resources Act which included
                               provisions to deal with liabilities of mining enterprisesthat are being privatized.
                               --Amendments to the Environmental Protection Law and the Law on Restructuring
                               and Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises and its amendments, to
                               explicitly retain the State's liability for past environmental damages.
                               --Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a Regulation on the principles, conditions
                               and procedures for settling the State's liabilities for historical pollution.
                               --Adoption of an Order of the MOEW of the Guidelines for the Scope, Content and
                               --Assessment of Past Contamination Damages.
                               --Establishment of an inter-agency coordinating mechanism with the participation
                               of the MOF, MOEW, PA, and MOI, or its successor, to oversee the implementation
                               of the Environment and Privatization Support Program, and designation of an
                               official of MOF to carry out the duties of loan manager.

Establishing a framework for Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements for Nefotchim Petrochemical and Refining
integrating environmental      Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel Complex, and Assarel Medet, under which at least 67
liabilities into privatization percent of the equity interest in the enterprise is transferred to a private owner and
                               the purchaser has paid the required down payment, and the following requirements
                               are fulfilled:
                                l Environmental clauses acceptable to the Bank are included in the Sales
                                   Purchase Agreements.
                                l Compliance Plans approved by the MOEW, and acceptable to the Bank are
                                   annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
                                l Framework Remediation Plans with cost caps approved by the MOEW, and
                                   acceptable to the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreement.
                                l Execution Agreements, signed by the MOEW, MOF and PA and satisfactory to
                                   the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements
                                l The total cost of environmental remediation of these enterprises exceeds
                                   US$25 million.
                                l Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments and carry out public
                                   consultations for the following privatized enterprises: Neftochim Petrochemical
                                   and Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel Complex, and Assarel Medet as the
                                   basis of agreeing on Framework Remediation and Compliance Plans annexed
                                   to the Sales Purchase Agreement
Developing a framework for     Preparation of an Action plan and timetable acceptable to the Bank, for
improving environmental        implementing pilot integrated environmental permits according to the EU Council
performance and harmonizing Directive 96/61 on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control.
with EU environmental
requirements




                                                         - 4 -

TRANCHE 2                      Satisfactory Rating
($14,840,000.00)
Development of policy and      Continued maintenance of the inter-agency coordinating mechanism established as
regulatory reform              a condition for tranche one to oversee the implementation of the EPSP.
Establishing a framework for Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements for at least three additional large industrial
integrating environmental      enterprises, under which at least 67 percent of the equity interest in the enterprise is
liabilities into privatization transferred to a private owner and the purchaser has paid the required down
                               payment, and the following requirements are fulfilled:
                                  l Environmental clauses acceptable to the Bank are included in the Sales
                                       Purchase Agreements.
                                  l Compliance Plans approved by the MOEW, and acceptable to the Bank are
                                       annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements.
                                  l Framework Remediation Plans with cost caps approved by the MOEW, and
                                       acceptable to the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreement.
                                  l Execution Agreements, signed by the MOEW, MOF and PA and satisfactory to
                                       the Bank are annexed to the Sales Purchase Agreements
                                  l The agreed cumulative total cost of Remediation Plans for these enterprises
                                       and those privatized as a condition of the first tranche exceeds US$50 million.
                                  l Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment and carry out public
                                       consultations, for the privatized enterprises as the basis of agreeing on
                                       Remediation and Compliance Plans annexed to the Sales Purchase
                                       Agreements.
Developing a framework for     Satisfactory Progress, according to performance indicators agreed with the Bank, in
improving environmental        the implementation of Framework Remediation Plans, Compliance Plans and the
performance and harmonizing time-bound implementation plans set out in the Execution Agreements relating to
with EU environmental          Neftochim Petrochemical and Refining Complex, Kremikovtzi Steel Complex, and
requirements                   Assarel Medet.

                               Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such measures have been
                               taken to mitigate any significant adverse social impact of the EPSP identified
                               during the public consultation process under the EIA or during monitoring
                               activities carried out under the EIA.

                               Pilot integrated environmental permits issued according to the EU IPPC Directive*
                               to at least 5 large enterprises (each with at least 1,000 employees) in the
                               metallurgical and chemical sectors.
                               ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                *EU Council Directive 96/61 on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control is one of the
                                EU Directives governing control on industrial emissions and waste and is the key driver for environmental
                                performance in industry. The goal of the directive is to achieve integrated
                                prevention and control of pollution arising from a wide range of activities by means of
                                measures to prevent, or where not practicable, to reduce emissions from industrial facilities
                                to air, water and land including measures to achieve a higher level of environmental
                                protection as a whole. All activities covered by the Directive require a permit. Permits
                                must contain measures designed to ensure that facilities meet the basic requirements for:
                                (i) appropriate preventive measures against pollution, in particular through application of
                                Best Available techniques (BAT) or/and BAT not entailing excessive costs; (ii) no significant
                                pollution is caused, (iii) waste production is avoided; where it is produced it should be
                                recovered of disposed while avoiding or reducing any negative impacts on environment;
                                (iii) energy is used efficiently; (iv) the necessary measures are taken to prevent accidents
                                and limit their consequences, and (v) the necessary measures are taken upon definite
                                cessation of activities to avoid any pollution risk and return the site of operation to a
                                satisfactory state. Permits must include emission limits based on BAT taking into
                                consideration the potential for transfer of pollution from one medium to another.




                                                                  - 5 -

TRANCHE 3                      Satisfactory Rating
($19,315,000.00)
Development of policy and      Continued maintenance of the inter-agency coordinating mechanism established as
regulatory reform              a condition for tranche one to oversee the implementation of the EPSP.
Establishing a framework for   Framework established as conditioned for previous tranches.
integrating environmental
liabilities into privatization
Developing a framework for     Satisfactory Progress, according to performance indicators agreed with the Bank, in
improving environmental        the implementation of Framework Remediation Plans, Compliance Plans and the
performance and harmonizing time-bound implementation plans set out in the Execution Agreements for
with EU environmental          enterprises privatized as conditions of the first and second tranches.
requirements                   Made payments from the remediation accounts for activities under the Framework
                               Remediation Plans above an aggregate amount acceptable to the Bank (i.e. 70% of
                               Loan amounts already disbursed under the first and second tranches).
                               Taken measures satisfactory to the Bank, or ensured that such measures have been
                               taken to mitigate any significant adverse social impact of the EPSP identified
                               during the public consultation process under the EIA or during monitoring
                               activities carried out under the EIA.
                               Issuance of pilot integrated environmental permits to at least 80% of all large
                               industrial enterprises (each with approximately 1,000 employees) in the
                               metallurgical and chemical sectors, and thereafter ensured compliance of all such
                               enterprises with the terms of pilot permits.


The project components and sequencing of tranches were adequately designed to achieve the objectives
mentioned above. The project focused on the Government's highest priorities, i.e. privatization and
improving the climate for private investments, and honoring the Government's responsibility for
environmental liabilities during the pre-privatization period, while ensuring actions for reduction of
environmental hazards and improved environmental performance. It was both the Government's and Bank's
assessment that environmental policies and integration of environmental issues into the privatization
process are among the highest priorities to accelerate privatization of large industrial enterprises, as
investors look for stronger assurances that the state will recognize liability for past pollution. Ensuring
consistency between existing statutory and regulatory requirements and both privatization legislation and
the resulting contractual obligations is key. This is particularly true when assigning responsibility for
historical pollution and enforcing environmental operating requirements immediately after privatization.
The program design successfully incorporated all the required elements into a coherent package.

EU accession is another top priority for Bulgaria. As part of the its accession agenda for meeting EU legal
requirement, the Government is strongly committed to harmonizing Bulgaria's legislation with EU
environmental acquis and therefore fully supported the EPSAL actions directed towards EU harmonization.
Implementation of provisions of the EU IPPC Directive is one of the most important tasks in the process of
establishing a modern environmental management system. Implementing remediation programs in
privatized enterprises, which is the Government's responsibility, was designed to provide the greatest
protection to public health and sensitive ecosystems at the most reasonable cost. The mix of conditions
under each tranche appropriately emphasized the development of policy and regulatory reform at the
beginning, thus providing a rational framework for: (a) integrating environmental factors into the
privatization process and (b) improved environmental performance. Implementation gradually gained
momentum as institutional capacity grew. Therefore assigning the largest amount of resources to the last
tranche was rational, because budgetary expenditures associated with the implementation of the program
also gradually increased. As the project progressed from design and technical studies to site remediation



                                                        - 6 -

works, the Government needed the loan funds to maintain an acceptable level of budget expenses and
leverage to complete the reform process. Consequently the Government's commitments outlined in the
Policy Development Letter were substantially met. (Section 10: Additional information, provides more
details)
3.4 Revised Components:
Not Applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The EPSAL supported reform program addressed major problems in
the privatization program in a coherent package. It was supported by a number of studies (an
environmental and cost assessment and Framework Remediation Plans for a number of enterprises,
prepared by the EU SARA Program; the Danish Ministry of Energy and Environment supported the
MOEW in its preparation of the report "Harmonization of Bulgarian Environmental Legislation with the
EU requirements for Industrial Pollution Control, etc.) and built upon results of the then on-going
assistance from other donors, and successful experience and lessons learned from the Bank financed
Environment Remediation Pilot Project. In addition, the Bank provided assistance for the preparation of an
Action Plan for introduction on a pilot basis of IPPC permits. The reform and scale of operations under
the EPSAL, while not addressing all privatization problems, was a very useful example for other countries
in the region facing similar problems. A presentation of the EPSAL model at a regional conference in
Bucharest, organized by the Bank and the Romanian Ministry of Environment in 2003 was well received.

As noted above, the EPSAL objectives were consistent with the CAS and Government priorities articulated
in the Policy Development Letter. The Government was strongly committed and demonstrated the ability of
different agencies involved to cooperate efficiently and effectively. Additionally, the Bank team realistically
assessed (as documented in the Report and Recommendations of the President) risks associated with the
EPSAL's implementation and effectively addressed them through mitigating measures incorporated in the
project design (e.g. clear contractual arrangements between the Government and new owners of privatized
enterprises in the Execution Agreements, mobilization of TA from EU-PHARE to strengthen the capacity
of the post-privatization unit to monitor investment commitments, and Regional Environmental
Inspectorates to efficiently monitor the impact of remediation and compliance requirements, etc ).
Implementation and oversight responsibilities were clearly outlined and agreed upon. Responsibilities and
reporting requirements, which included Government communication with the Bank, reporting from
enterprises to the Government agencies and monitoring of the Regional Environmental Agencies of
enterprise performance were detailed in the Memorandum of the President, loan agreement and Execution
Agreements.

The EPSAL methodology complemented other IBRD financed operations in Bulgaria in that it supported
structural changes at the national level (PAL, FESAL, etc). For example under FESAL II, environmental
audits identified enterprises with past environmental liabilities large enough to affect the privatization
outcome. Under the EPSAL framework additional detailed environmental assessments of those companies
were undertaken. All actions required by legal/regulatory conditions, as well as the establishment of
institutional mechanisms for managing and overseeing the program were successfully implemented on
schedule prior to Board presentation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Macroeconomic Developments: Bulgaria's macroeconomic outlook was favorable in 2001-2003 due to
growth improvements driven by structural reforms. Real GDP growth fluctuated between 4 and 5 percent
throughout this period, and the budget remained broadly balanced. Fiscal performance was even better than


                                                     - 7 -

projected because of more efficient revenue collection and a very conservative Government policy for
discretionary spending. Bulgaria's overall external position improved substantially during this period. The
current account deficit had been covered by foreign direct investments and recent medium-term
sustainability analysis showed that debt indicators continued to improve. In parallel, the Government had
expanded active labor market policies to reduce unemployment, complementing efforts to increase labor
market flexibility and maintain wage moderation in public enterprises. The structural reform agenda
broadly remained on track with significant progress made in the privatization of large industries and the
banking sector. The last major state-owned financial institution, DSK Bank has been privatized, however
efforts to finalize privatization of two remaining large enterprises, Bulgartabac and BTC, have not yielded
positive results. Finally, there is still much to do for judiciary reform and to improve the business climate.
Overall, both the Bank's and IMF's assessment is that Bulgaria's macroeconomic performance was robust
and reforms were on track. The Bank has committed to provide further financial assistance through its
Programmatic Adjustment Loan series.

Achievement of objective: The EPSAL objectives were largely met. Policy reforms facilitated the
privatization of large enterprises through stronger assurances that the State would undertake liabilities for
past pollution. The Project was instrumental in increasing investments in environmental improvements. The
privatization model provided a good opportunity for the government to improve efficiency and promote
competition, good management, improved access to products and capital markets, and export earnings,
while reducing the burden of ownership and budgetary strain of loss making enterprises. The project also
supported the Government in harmonizing its legislation with the EU's, specifically in piloting the
implementation of the EU Directive 96/99 on IPPC and setting up the process regulated by the new EPA of
2003. In fact, the project established a platform for launching the implementation of the IPPC Directive in
the entire industrial sector, which must be completed for all industiral facilities by 2012.

The EPSAL assisted the Bulgarian government to systematically address environmental aspects of
privatization, including adjustment of the legislative framework. It established a process for incorporating
environment into privatization through environmental audits and helped develop a risk assessment
methodology to determine past environmental liabilities, procedures for inter-agency collaboration. It
integrated environmental issues into privatization contracts in the form of remediation and compliance
plans and implementation agreements; provided assistance to build Government capacity to monitor and
enforce environmental agreements and requirements, and established a model of mechanisms to cover the
government's obligations for remediation. The EPSAL employed the EIA with public consultations,
thereby adhering to the national regulations. The Government believes that the combination of EPSAL
supported measures and the Government's financial resources, helped avert a potential negative effect of
privatization such as "export" of polluting industries to Bulgaria -- which otherwise would have been
viewed as "pollution heaven".

Industrial environmental compliance and substantial performance improvements take time and require
extensive investments. The EPSAL helped set up the compliance framework by linking regulatory
requirements, investment plans for compliance and public sector support, which participating entreprises
had to comply with. As a result REIs recorded positive trends in the participating enterprises. REIs'
capacity to monitor and interpret monitoring data and provide reports has gradually improved. Prior to
project closing the participating enterprises reported various degrees of success in implementing the
framework remediation plans (FRP). Progress depended largely on the effectiveness of enterprise
management, enterprise financial standing, technical complexity of remediation measures. Assarel Medet,
Sopharma and Neochim delivered particularly good performance on the execution of framework
remediation and compliance plans. Neftochim and Kremikovtzi experienced significant organizational,
management and financial difficulties.


                                                        - 8 -

REI's environmental monitoring data for Assarel Medet Mine provides evidence of a steady decrease of
concentration of heavy metals (Cu) in the Assarelska River as a result of the construction of filter barrages
and "curtains" at the diverting tunnel of the strong solution pond. The microdam and river course of the
Assarelska river were cleaned and rehabilitated. Monitoring data of effluent waters in Kremikovtzi Steel
Mill showed improved water quality of Lesnovska river (70-80% of the plant's effluent waters are treated
and recycled). Neftochim's automated self-monitoring system for monitoring ambient air is operational and
submits periodic reports to REI. Neftochim improved its system of waste registration at production sites;
waste storage facilities were brought in compliance with regulations and 66,500 cub.m.of contaminated soil
at Rosenetz Oil Port have been remediated.

Despite the slow start, remediation programs under the loan have progressed satisfactorily and give
assurances they will be completed under the revised implementation schedules. The Government included
in the loan program privatized enterprises with a record of being serious environmental "offenders", albeit
some of these were facing serious financial problems, and sites with a significant risk to public health.
Thus it is believed that mitigation of the environmental risk will result in localized environmental
improvements and will benefit the local population. Incorporation of environment in the privatization
process of enterprises has been a positive learning experience for the Bulgarian environmental and
privatization authorities. Furthermore, the EPSAL will have a lasting effect on the Government's policies:
the Government has extended the EPSAL mechanism to complete the privatization process of ten other
industries (Lead and Zink Smelter - Kurdjali, Biovet-Peshtera, Osiogovo-Kujistendil, KZM-Plovdiv,
Geosol-Provadia, Pirel-Gotze Delchev, Gorubso -Luky Mine, Rudozem Rudnik-Dimov Dol,
Gorubso-Madan, Elazite Med- Mirkovo ). Execution Agreements to the Sales Purchase Agreements for a
total of BGN 39,931,000 have been signed for these new enterprises and will be financed by the state
budget.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy and Regulatory Reform. Institutional Capacity.
Revisions to the Subterranean Resources Act and new Water Act to clarify responsibilities for past
contamination were prepared and passed through Parliament in early 2000 before the EPSAL was
submitted for World Bank Board approval. Amendments to the Law on Restructuring and Privatization of
State Municipal Enterprises that explicitly establish State liability for past environmental damages and
clearly exempt buyers of state-owned enterprises from liability of past environmental damage were done in
a time and manner satisfactory to the Bank. Although not a loan condition, later in 2002, the legislative
harmonization with the EU acquis led to the development and adoption of a new Environmental Protection
Act, which is fully harmonized with EU environmental standards. Supporting "Regulation on Conditions
and Procedures for Defining State Liability for Past Environmental Damages in Privatization" has since
then been updated as a result of the new Law. An inter-agency coordinating mechanism was established
and properly maintained during EPSAL implementation. The Oversight Committee, which was established
by a decree of the Council of Ministers, and acted as a body for dispute resolution and progress review, has
demonstrated the ability of different Government agencies to coordinate and collaborate. The
Interministerial Expert Council (IMEC) - a technical arm of the OC approved design documentation for
remediation works and was maintained throughout the entire program. Under the updated Regulation on
Conditions and Procedures for Defining State Liability for Past Environmental Damages in Privatization
(Decree 78 of the Council of Ministers from April 3, 2003), IMEC has been institutionalized and
subordinated to the Supreme Environmental Council assuming the same responsibilities extended over the
larger Government privatization activities, and will continue after EPSAL closure.

Framework for Integrating Environmental Liabilities into Privatization



                                                      - 9 -

Development and issuance of the MOEW's Order on Guidelines for the Scope and Content of Past
Contamination was completed prior to release of the first tranche. Systematic auditing and EIA
requirements for all major industrial enterprises prior to privatization, as well as development of the risk
assessment methodology was regularized as part of preparatory work under EPSAL. Execution
Agreements which were annexed to the sales purchase agreements were developed for six companies
privatized and proposed for inclusion in EPSAL: Kremikovtzi AD (ferrous metallurgy), Lukoil Neftochim
(petroleum and petrochemicals), Assarel Medet (non- ferrous metallurgy), Neochim (chemical/fertilizers),
Sopharma (chemical/pharmaceuticals) and Agropolychim (chemical/fertilizers). The agreements specify the
obligations of the Government and new private owner and responsibilities for implementation of the
framework remediation program, provide a dispute resolution mechanism, and outline payment terms and
conditions.

By March 2004, a total of about BGN 215, 148,000 million had been spent from the State budget to
finance remediation measures in those six enterprises included in EPSAL program. Government's
performance on annual planning of budget resources for remediation was satisfactory during the entire loan
period. The provisions of the Execution Agreements are legally binding for the parties which require
commitment of budget funds until full completion of remediation measures. Therefore the role of the
Ministry of Finance in the OC and IMEC will be key to guarantee adequate planning and allocation of the
necessary budget resources beyond EPSAL's completion.
Framework for Improving Environmental Performance

Introduction and gradual phase-in of Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) regulation and
permits was developed on a pilot basis at an early stage of the program. Every year since then the
Government has gradually increased the number of enterprises for which IPPC permits have been issued.
Before tranche two release, the MOEW negotiated and signed pilot IPPC permits with seven large
enterprises (Solvei Sodi-Devnja, OCK-Kurdjali, KZM Plovdiv, UMICOR (UM MDK)-Pirdop,
Chimko-Vraza, Sviloza-Svistov, and Agropolychim-Devnja). By the end of the loan program most of the
large industries from the chemical and metallurgical sectors had negotiated IPPC permits (in addition to
those mentioned above, Sopharma - Sofia, Stomana Industry -Pernik, Promet -Burgas, Neochim
-Dimitrovgrad, Orgachim -Russe, Biovet -Peshetera, Polimeri -Devnja, Balkanpharma -Razgrad,
Balkanpharma-Dupnitza, Sofia Med Sofia, Radomir Metali - Radomir, Nova Plama - Pleven). In fact this
exceeded the program target of 80% of enterprises from the list of 21. To sustain the process, the MOEW
has launched an Action Plan for the 2003-2007 period for further IPPC implementation in other sector
enterprises and is using the process to work towards EU compliance requirements.

Preparation and implementation of environmental compliance plans to bring privatized enterprises into
compliance with environmental regulations has been monitored by IMEC. As mentioned before, compliance
plans (CP) were a part of the privatization documents. CPs were developed on the basis of EIA and
environmental audits and approved by the Supreme EIA Council. The CPs implicitly recognized the fact
that meeting environmental norms -- never met prior to privatization -- will take time, but each of the
enterprise compliance programs included clear targets and schedules bound with investment estimates.
During the period 2000-2003 participating companies invested more than BGN60 million into the
compliance program implementation which were counted in the privatization investments obligations of the
enterprises and monitored by the Agency for Post Privatization Control. Interestingly enough the "lion's
share" of compliance investments, in aggregate more than 70% of the total, were invested by the
"underperforming" enterprises lagging behind in implementation of remediation measures. Lukoil
Neftochim Oil Refinery, Burgas, and Kremiovtzi Steel Mill, Sofia, despite some serious problems with
pre-privatization debt, managed to retain a fair market share and sustain sales. Kremikovtzi made


                                                     - 10 -

environmental investments in installation of electrostatic dust filters, improvements in the ferry-alloy plant,
dust emission monitoring, upgrade of the hot rolling plant. However, monitoring of future investment
obligations for environmental compliance remains a challenge given the financial situation of the Steel Mill.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is considered substantial. First, preparation and
implementation of EPSAL was effective in strengthening the regulatory and enforcement capacity of
Government agencies. Second, the Privatization Agency's capacity to understand the importance of
addressing environmental issues has been improved. Third, MOEW's capacity to understand privatization
procedures and their linkages with environmental requirements is so much better that it can now collaborate
with the privatization agency effectively and as an equal partner. The preparation of environmental audits,
assessments, and remediation and compliance plans included the transfer of new methodologies which were
largely carried out by local experts. As a result this enhanced the capacity of national consulting firms.
Inter-agency collaboration and cooperation improved substantially during the course of the program. In
addition, the Inter-ministerial Expert Council (IMEC) established as an inter-agency coordinating body to
oversee EPSAL implementation, was institutionalized by the Government Decree No.78 of April 3, 2003 as
an entity subordinated to Supreme EIA Council, and will continue beyond the EPSAL life. However, it
took a while for the IMEC to prove its efficiency, and become a decision making body, respected by all
public and private partners involved in enterprise privatization.

Support for piloting IPPC of large industrial facilities helped accelerate harmonization with EU
environmental requirements. The project has also played a major role in fostering public-private
partnership for environmental compliance and encouraged private investment in environmental
improvements. One company included in the program, Assarel Medet, is the first in Bulgaria to establish an
Environmental Management System and become ISO 14001 certified, a significant accomplishment which
gives the company standing on the international market and will commit it to achieving corporate
environmental compliance with international standards.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 2001 Parliamentary elections resulted in a change in Government, and subsequently the composition of
the Oversight Committee and IMEC. It took some time before the new members familiarized themselves
with the philosophy and underlying principles of the EPSAL program. Both structures became functional
shortly after new nominations had been completed. Though this affected the pace of implementation,
overall it did not have any detrimental impact on the program.

All companies included in the program were privatized and had autonomy in making management
decisions. MOEW adoption of the new approach to create the appropriate regulatory and financial
incentives for private sector compliance, rather than following the "command and control" approach
needed time to show results. Implementation of remediation programs, and compliance programs depended
very much on commitment, good management and environmental awareness in the enterprises. In this
regard, the EPSAL program experienced mixed success. External factors outside the control of OC and



                                                      - 11 -

IMEC, such as the eroded financial position of Kremikovtzi, and fluctuating commitment and speculative
behavior of the management of Luckoil -Neftochim Refinery, due to their monopoly on the market, caused
major delays and uncertainties. However IMEC has continued to build on the partnership established
through EPSAL to resolve problems through mutually agreeable measures. More details are provided in
Chapter 7.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's commitment to the reform program under the EPSAL and systematic follow-up on
agreed actions contributed in large measure to the success of the program, as did its commitment to EU
accession goals. It correctly perceived that the prerequisites for EU membership were a functioning national
economy and competitive industrial sector. Despite the initial setback with planning remediation and
compliance activities and coordination with budget expenditures, which was critical for the timely
utilization of annual budget allocations for remediation, eventually timely provision of budgetary resources
made both physical and financial achievements possible. With the exception of changes in the Government
following the 2001 elections, continuity of staffing in key positions had a positive impact on the
effectiveness and efficiency of the program. On the other hand, extremely slow administrative procedures
for approval of access to land or acquisition (e.g. for disposal facilities of waste generated from demolition
activities), delayed implementation of remediation programs of some companies. Initially there was lack of
clarity over the applicability of the Public Procurement Law for procuring services for feasibility studies
and detailed engineering design. There was also a lack of clarity over what actions constituted remediation
and what actions constituted compliance. Finally, the Government offered new enterprise owners lesser
degree of flexibility regarding implementation of the remediation program. With a greater flexibility,
though, when the Government could enter into an Executive Agreement with a remediation contractor, the
Government could not maintain the commitment of the new owner. For the one enterprise (Agropolychim)
which elected the last option (Government dealt directly with the specialized remediation contractor)
implementation of the remediation program was made particularly difficult by the new owner despite
specific legal provisions in the Sales Purchase Agreement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Initially, communication between enterprises and Government authorities was weak and caused delays.
Procedures for reviewing technical documentation of remediation program were too time-consuming and
cumbersome. Both required time to gain experience before the procedures could be streamlined.

The administrative capacity of the MOEW, MOF, MOI, and PA was appropriate to foster progress in the
reforms. IMEC's technical capacity to implement the program was adequate. In addition, MOEW made
special arrangements and secured funding through the National Environmental Fund for specialized
technical expertise when needed, to support IMEC.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Release of the EPSAL's second and third tranches were delayed; the former by 10 months and the latter by
five due to lack of progress under the Framework Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans of two
companies: Kremikovtzi AD and Lukoil-Neftochim. The underlying causes were: (i) lack of clarity over the
applicability of Public Procurement Law for procuring services for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering designs; (ii) disputes over advance payments for studies and designs; (iii) disputes over
enterprise liability for completion of the agreed Framework Remediation Plan in cases when actual
remediation costs significantly exceeded the cost caps in the Execution Agreements; (iv) perceived
inter-linkages between the remediation program and compliance measures and (v) lack of corporate
commitment to finance upfront costly elements of compliance program (Kremikovtzi: West Slag Pond).
Slow progress also led to some underperformance in the disbursement level of budget remediation



                                                     - 12 -

allocations. Though disbursements under tranches one and two did not quite reach the 70% level required
prior to release of tranche three, the Bank considered the percentage (68.5%) satisfactory to release tranche
three given the overall progress on meeting the policy development conditions.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability of the program is highly likely. Several reasons support this rating. Key to
sustainability is the fact that the project addressed most of the reforms needed to resolve issues recognized
as problematic when dealing with environment in the context of privatization. Moreover, even though the
program was implemented under two different elected governments, support for the project was
consistently high and unwavering with each government demonstrating that these issues are a priority.
Sustainability is also ensured by the fact that the most of reforms sought under the loan are necessary for
EU accession, an overriding Government priority. Finally, deepening and broadening reforms gained under
EPSAL were incorporated into PALI and PALII, which at that time were under preparation. These were
adoption of the new EIA Regulation and the new EPA, and an implementation plan for strengthening the
administrative capacity for meeting the EU environmental aquis.

The required sector policy and regulatory environment is in place for deepening and broadening the
reforms. The approach adopted for the six enterprises included in the EPSAL program has already been
replicated to other eight privatized enterprises. The framework for extending the model to the remaining
companies in the utility and energy sector is in place but its implementation will require political will of the
upper echelons of the decision makers. Institutional capability was substantially enhanced under the
program and environmental remediation has become an integral part of the industrial privatization
program. Institutional mechanisms for implementation and monitoring established under the EPSAL, have
been permanently adopted by the Government. The officially established IMEC as an institutional unit
subordinate to the Higher Ecological Council, has been designated to maintain its' functions of integrating
environmental issues into the privatization of all other SOEs. The Government's strong commitment and
good budget performance also provides assurances that sufficient and timely technical and financial
resources will continue to be allocated to the program.

Remediation and Compliance plans contain performance targets which can easily be monitored in the future
by IMEC and REIs. The monitoring and evaluation system is largely in place and responsibilities of the
companies, MOEW (including Regional Environmental Inspectorates), MOF and Post Privatization
Agency are clearly defined. However, for the Post Privatization Agency to implement effective
enforcement, its' technical capacity requires further strengthening.

The ISO 14001 certification of Assarel Medet further demonstrates that the program had a broader impact
on raising environmental awareness and improving corporate management in companies and that the
program's sustainability is highly likely. Although the current ISO certification process is driven by market
compatibility, it is believed that the EPSAL contributed to the enterprises' strive for ISO 14001
certification.

Even though issuance of pilot integrated pollution permits to 80% of big industries in metallurgical and
chemical sectors, was a condition under the program, the Government has developed an Action Plan for
2003-2007 for introduction of the IPPC permits, extending far beyond the program conditions. This Action
Plan is mandated by the new Environmental Protection Law (2002), and permits will be gradually issued to
remaining enterprises from other sectors.




                                                      - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Sector policy reforms, such as those supported by EPSAL, take time to have an effect, and project design
inherently accommodates transitional arrangements. As mentioned before, implementation of remediation
programs is regulated by the Execution Agreements signed on behalf of the Government by the Ministers of
Finance, Environment and Waters, Privatization Agency, and companies management. Thus, there is a
solid legal basis for continuing implementation of remediation programs beyond the loan closure. Each
Remediation Plan has a budget estimate and implementation schedule. In addition, Compliance Plans
developed for each company privatized, are included in the Sales Purchase Agreement, again providing a
legal basis upon which the Government may act to force companies to continue investments and maintain
due diligence for assuring improved environmental performance. Compliance programs include interim
targets for all monitorable indicators. This approach was adopted by the Government to deal with
environmental aspects of industrial privatization activities, not just those supported by the Bank. Therefore
the sustainability of the environmental management reform and implementation of IPPC Directive is
covered by the Government's Action Plan for Implementation of IPPC 2003-2007 as well as in the
provisions of PAL II where there is an agreed measurable indicator for issuance of IPPC permits.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project was
consistent with GOB and Bank development priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy.
Preparation was technically adequate, underpinned by a number of analytical and technical studies,
including EIAs which laid the foundations for the program. Legislative and institutional gap analyses
carried out under PHARE TA program identified major issues some of which where picked up by the
project. Lessons from the Environmental Remediation Pilot Project which was under implementation at the
time of EPSAL preparation were incorporated in the design. The model was successfully implemented in
remediation of historical damages in UMICOR Med, Pirdop (Copper Smelter) and considered a "best
practice" project. EPSAL's design, however, was somewhat optimistic in gauging how quickly a large scale
remediation program could be implemented, but even in retrospect was appropriate, as it expanded both
Government and private sector capabilities in key reform areas and helped establish real dialogue between
public and private sectors over environmental management issues. Overall the EPSAL has offered a
comprehensive sector-wide approach under the framework of a traditional multi-tranche adjustment lending
instrument employing an innovative and engaging scheme which tested Government capacity to oversee a
complex remediation program. The relationship with the Government was very good and productive
throughout the entire preparation and implementation process.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. Six supervision missions were carried out
throughout the loan life to review progress every six months. An appropriate skills mix and staff continuity
were assured. The Bank team was persistent, firm and clear in the dialogue with the Government, working
to find constructive solutions to identified problems, while demonstrating flexibility in details (developed
and agreed upon detailed and time bound action plans for underperforming enterprises before release of the
second tranche), without compromising on issues which would negatively impact the achievement of overall
objectives. Detailed mission reports were prepared which informed the next implementation steps. Critical
issues were well identified and their significance for the overall operation were presented. There was very
detailed and highly satisfactory monitoring of the program, and the reporting requirements for the client
developed by the Bank team proved to be extremely helpful in continuous monitoring of the program.
Communication with enterprises in partnership with the IMEC, interactions with OC and IMEC were
continuous and productive.


                                                     - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The Government of Bulgaria at the
highest levels was fully supportive of the reform program. All concerned agencies closely participated and
effectively contributed at all phases of project preparation and implementation. Both technical and decision
making staff at MOF, MOEW, IMEC and PA, as well as other agencies were readily available at all times.
The leadership and vision provided by the main counterparts in the Government ensured that the EPSAL
program was appropriate for Bulgaria's needs. In addition, the Government made very good use of
experience and lessons learnt under ERPP during preparation and design of EPSAL.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Government
displayed strong commitment to the project. However, their complex proposal review and land acquisition
and procurement procedures caused implementation delays in several activities. The translation of IMEC
progress reports in English delayed the review process. Nevertheless, the IMEC and Oversight Committee
served very well, first for review and decisions regarding technical issues (specialized external technical
expertise was also invited when needed), and second for resolving emerging conflicts between the
Government and new enterprise owners which helped IMEC earn the respect of all participating companies.
The Government met all its commitments under the program, including timely and adequate provisions of
budgetary resources for implementation of remediation plans.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Several institutions involved in the program could be considered implementing agencies. Throughout the
duration of the program, the MOF and MOEW teams took measures continuously to implement EPSAL
effectively and efficiently, adjusting to an often extremely dynamic environment. Detailed progress reports,
albeit only in Bulgarian, were prepared to the agreed standards and submitted in a timely manner. As
mentioned before, start up of the program was marked by insufficient cooperation between the agencies,
and somewhat slow progress in document processing. IMEC could have incorporated the numerous World
Bank recommendations for improving inter-agency coordination and pace of processing proposals at early
stages of the program more diligently. However, it did try to extract and implement the essence of these
recommendations at later stages of the program. Overall IMEC consisted of highly professional staff who
implemented program activities in a professional expedient manner. At critical stages of program
implementation, upon the Bank team's recommendation, IMEC and OC intensified interactions with certain
individual enterprises visiting them on a regular basis to resolve existing and emerging problems.

MOEW staff provided day-to-day technical and administrative assistance to participating enterprises and
served as executive secretariat of IMEC. Loan Manager, staff of MOF, carried out regular monitoring
and reporting on expenditure and facilitated planning of budget allocations for remediation. The MOF was
in charge of carrying out an annual audit of the loan and remediation accounts as part of the audit of the
Central Bank and relevant sections of the audit reports were submitted as required.

The enterprises acted in most of the cases as implementing agencies. Their performance was mixed. Some
were quite successful in implementing both remediation and compliance programs, while others lagged
behind and impeded overall program implementation. Here a company's competence and awareness on
environmental issues, as well as overall corporate culture and management behavior had a substantial



                                                      - 15 -

impact on implementation. Companies which failed to designate a team of committed professionals for
implementation of remediation and compliance plans at the outset of the program experienced considerable
difficulties, though some of them were able to catch up towards the end of the program. It is noteworthy to
mention the diligent performance of the teams of Assarel Medet, Sopharma, and Neochim.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The EPSAL demonstrates that there are at least four major factors that need to be in place to succeed with
environmentally sustainable privatization: (i) Government commitment to include environmental
considerations in sales negotiations and agreement; (ii) appropriate legal and regulatory framework; (iii)
sufficient institutional capacity and commitment for environmental enforcement; and (iv) the new owners'
commitment to sustainable environmental management. Specific examples below reinforce the above
mentioned statements.

l It is widely acknowledged that at least three major factors influence the industry's response to the
    environmental challenge: (a) the need for efficiency (cost minimization, through waste minimization,
    recycling, etc), (b) effective government regulations, and (c) stakeholder pressure. In most developed
    countries the need for efficiency is the driving force for introducing cleaner production/pollution
    prevention measures. For almost all of the enterprises participating in the program, the government
    regulations were basically the only factor influencing companies' behavior toward sustainable
    environmental management. This leads to the conclusion that economic benefits of improved
    environmental performance were not fully understood or appreciated by the new enterprise
    management. Hence, the EPSAL enhanced the Government's role not only to develop an appropriate
    policy and regulatory framework, but also to provide technical guidance to enterprises for estimating
    economic gains that companies might achieve through sustainable environmental management (e.g.
    pollution reduction, waste minimization, introduction of EMS etc.). At present, stakeholder pressure,
    particularly from local communities, is weak because high unemployment and relatively high poverty,
    give environmental issues relatively low priority among the general population. In many parts of
    Bulgaria these companies are the major job providers.
l Environmental improvements beyond initial win-win gains (provided through remediation programs in
    this case) depend on environmental regulation and enforcement. While the regulations are largely in
    place, the enforcement capacity of relevant agencies (Regional Environmental Inspectorates,
    Post-privatization Agency) is weak and needs to be strengthened.
l When land acquisition is involved in the remediation program (e.g. to accommodate wastes generated
    in demolition activities) and a government permit is involved (here, local authorities and the Ministry of
    Agriculture), delays in the permitting process can seriously affect the remediation implementation
    schedule (Agropolychim and Assarel-Medet). It is recommended that either a more expeditious
    procedure be developed for land acquisition when it is in the public goods domain, or agreements
    reached regarding any new land required, as some form of project conditionality. Clearly the first
    approach is more sustainable.
l When there are intimate links between compliance and remediation programs, the financial soundness
    of the enterprise implementing the compliance program, and the relative cost of remediation and
    compliance should be evaluated. In the case of Kremikovtzi, the enterprise was nearly bankrupt and
    privatized through a management-buy-out scheme, but was required to make substantial investments
    in compliance to qualify for relatively small State resources for remediation. Another fundamental
    error in judgement made by Kremikovtzi was attempting the technical design by itself when it did not



                                                     - 16 -

    have the requisite expertise. This significantly delayed the implementation schedule. Technical design
    of remediation projects can be an exceedingly complex task, and engaging an experienced company
    with qualified expertise would have been the best option.
l The experience of successful companies suggests that to achieve positive results, good will and
    commitment of the new owner is critical. Though not surprising but still worth mentioning, personal
    management style and commitment are attributes of success. In addition, it is an absolute necessity to
    designate at least one full time person responsible for the program. A good example in this respect is
    Assarel Medet. Neochim, for example also established an expert committee, and hired external experts
    to supplement their own staff to participate in technical review meetings. A less successful example is
    Neftochim-Luckoil AD where management's commitment to remediation program varied and often
    times was influenced by internal politics.
l The EPSAL implementation mechanism included arrangements for implementing the remediation
    programs through which the State entered into an Execution Agreement with the new owner, who in
    turn implemented the remediation program directly or subcontracted the work to remediation
    specialists. Arrangements when the State entered into an Executive Agreement for the remediation
    directly with a remediation contractor, and the new enterprise owner had indirect involvement was less
    successful. It is therefore recommended that the updated regulatory framework takes this experience
    into account and introduces mandatory provisions for direct engagement of the new owner.
l Intense project supervision by the Bank as well as continuity in Bank staff is especially important in
    this type of operation. In particular, the task manager responsible for project preparation, should
    supervise the project at least during the initial critical phases to ensure continuity in the policy
    dialogue.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    The following paragraphs are based on the conclusions and recommendations formulated by the
Borrower in the last Project Progress Report and follow up written communication on the draft ICR from
the Ministry of Environment and Waters and Ministry of Finance.

    EPSAL was prepared by the Government of Bulgaria with the assistance of the Bank as a continuation
and scaling up of the positive experience with the Bulgaria Environmental Remediation Pilot Project. The
loan provided budgetary support to: (i) further develop the national policy and regulatory framework for
addressing environmental issues during privatization; (ii)             facilitate the harmonization with EU
environmental aquis by piloting the implementation of the EU Directive 96/61 on IPPC, and (iii) launch a
large scale remediation program in selected private industrial enterprises to address environmental risks
from historical pollution. The EPSAL model was designed to engage the Government in a continuos
dialogue with the private sector for improved environmental arrangement and to take the lead in financing
and overseeing the implementation of the planned remediation measures. The project was an important
instrument for continuos partnership with the private sector on environmental compliance. By March 2004
the Government expenditure for remediation reached BGN 215,148,000 for enterprises included in the
EPSAL program and an additional BGN 39,931,000 for the ten enterprises to which the EPSAL model was
extended.

    As confirmed in a letter of the Ministry of Finance from November 24, 2004 , attached herewith, the
loan met its objective and the Government is ready to continue its effort to successfully complete the
remaining remediation plans, retain the institutional structures for project oversight of the follow up
measures, and secure the necessary funds.




                                                      - 17 -

     The review of the implementation progress up to date provides the ground to put forward the following
conclusions:

(i) The activities related to the elimination of prior environmental damages are being executed in
accordance with the planned measures contained in the programs approved by the Higher Environmental
Council of Experts to the Ministry of Environment and Water. However some delays occurred (only in a
few cases the delays were considerable) compared to the updated schedules approved by the Interministerial
Expert Council.

(ii) The most advanced stage of execution of the planned activities is observed with respect to the
remediation programs of Asarel-Medet AD  Panagyurishte and Neochim AD  Dimitrovgrad. Sopharma
is making progress and efforts to catch up on the delays, followed by Agropolyhim. Some progress has
been reported over the first quarter of 2004, but overall Neftochim-Luckoil AD and Kremikovtzi AD are
behind the schedule.

(iii) Agreement is reached and additional contract is signed to provide the access of the implementing
contractor FIG "REY Holding" AD  Sofia (in this case its successor "Bartemex Holding" AD  Sofia) to
the remediation sites in Agropolychim. Oversight Committee is closely monitoring the implementation of
the agreements.

(iv) The quality of the execution of the approved measures and the observance of the agreed schedules is
directly dependent on the commitment of the new owner with respect to their implementation obligations
and the achievement of sustainable results with respect to the protection of environment. Good examples
for the responsible attitude of the new owner in the execution of the program are Assarel  Medet AD 
Panagyurishte and Neochim AD  Dimitrovgrad, where regardless of the emerging difficulties, all efforts
are being made to compensate the delays in the course of the implementation.

(v) As a result of close oversight and supervision of IMEC and demonstrated will of the management of
Kremikovtzi AD  Sofia for the execution of the commitments has led to a certain progress in the
implementation of the remediation plan. The reclamation of the heavily contaminated soils around the plan
is completed.

(vi) The cases when the execution of the remediation plan is carried out by third parties selected in
accordance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act show the expeditiousness and the good
quality of the work of the contractors at competitive prices for execution of activities. However for the
successful implementation of key importance is the willingness of the new owner provides to cooperate. In
the case of Agropolichim AD  Devnya, the experience showed that there is lack of understanding on the
side of the new owner and fluctuating commitment for cooperation, which caused tension and extended
time for additional negotiations, hampering the progress of the implementation at times. On the other hand,
it became clear that in all case, the selected contractor could be replaced due to the changed juridical person
at any moment of the implementation, which leads to procedural obstacles and delays in the implementation
because of the necessity to have a guaranteed continuity not only for the execution itself but regarding the
quality of the implementation and the accountability of the funds under the Program.

(vii) Regular monitoring and random site check ups carried out by the representatives of the Interministerial
Expert Council accelerated problem resolution occurring during the course of the implementation while
suggesting joint technical decisions. This was a practice adopted which effectively influenced the closure
of implementation issues in all program executed until the closing date.



                                                       - 18 -

(viii) The completion of some remediation activities in the enterprise remediation programs raises an
important questions about the "after care" and the sustainability of the rehabilitated facilities and terrain.
To solve these questions effectively the implementing agencies (MoEW, MF, PPA) should work further to
amend the regulations and fill in the gaps.

(ix) Although it is too early to observe sustained improvements in the environmental performance and
reverse trends in local environmental conditions as a result of the implementation of the remediation and
compliance programs, monitoring continues to the period of time when monitoring of the sites will be
carried out. Most of the participating companies have completed the construction and installation of
monitoring systems and resumed regular reporting to the regional inspectorates. REIs will continue to
assess the environmental performance of the companies with regard to remediation impacts and to overall
facilities' compliance to norms and IPPC if in effect.
The performance of the Bank as a lender during EPSAL implementation is considered satisfactory, in
particular:

(i) coordination of the activities with the Borrower's implementing agencies,

(ii) guidance on monitoring of implementation of remediation plans, and

(iii) effective program supervision and team continuity.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Private sector comments sent to MOEW by management of Assarel Medet Copper Mine, Panagyurishte
(privatized by Assarel Invest JSC) and Neochim Fertilizer Plant, Dimitrovgrad (privatized by Evrofert)

Excerpts of a letter to MOEW from May 19, 2004 signed by L. Tsotzorkov, CEO of Assarel Medet JSC
(unofficial translation)
l During implementation the Project impact went into two major directions: (i) improvement of
     environmental performance indices of the enterprise concerning quality of effluent water and
     rehabilitation/recultivation of terrains damaged by past mining operation. Environmental monitoring
     data show stable trends towards meeting technical parameters in accordance with agreed remediation
     sub-projects; (ii) employment opportunities for local population. the program provided and continue to
     provide more than 100 permanent jobs in remediation activities.

l Usefulness of the EPSAL model and utilization of funds: During the first couple of years (2000-2001)
     there were problems with coordination of the parties to the Execution Agreement ( Assrel Invest,
     representing Assarel-Medet and the state, represented by MOEW , MOF and PA), as well as with
     resolving some normative requirements unspecified in the agreement - mainly with regard to status of
     the sites for which rehabilitation was foreseen. Presently we consider that the authorities, in charge of
     reviewing and exercising implementation oversight of the EPSAL program are working efficiently,
     with fully defined structures and functions to perform the EPSAL model. We also consider that there is
     a working mechanism for effective resolution of implementation issues and for the implementation and
     actualization of the Regulation for remediation and rehabilitation of historical damages. With all that
     said Assarel Medet's views are that the EPSAL model financed by the loan is exclusively successful
     and supports the environmental and privatization objectives.

Excerpts of a letter to MOEW from May 20, 2004 signed by M. Jekov, Commercial Director of Neochim,



                                                      - 19 -

 Dimitrovgrad (unofficial translation)

      l There are positive effects of the EPSAL program for addressing historical contamination which are
            as follows: (i) ecological - improves the quality of environment and work conditions at the
            enterprise site; (ii) economic - provides cost effective support to new owner to address historical
            pollution; (iii) social - creates employment and motivation for protection of environment not only
            by the workers, but also by the population in the region; (iv) educational - sets up standards for
            environmental management and behavior.

      l Upon completion of remediation activities, in good faith, all foregoing effects will be fully achieved
            with the support of EPSAL resources.

      l There were some implementation difficulties such as lack of coordination on the applicability of
            certain national normative documents, which are of a transitory nature. Due to the various and
            complex nature of remediation programs of participating enterprises the oversight of the programs
            is to a certain extent formalized. In summary the EPSAL project developed a workable model for
            addressing accumulated historical damages to environment. The implementation is rather slow due
            to beaurocratic obstacles introduced by the state in the process; the overall economic effect of the
            program for the state remains to be proved by future data when the programs are complete.




 10. Additional Information

  POLICY MATRIX: OBJECTIVES AND TRANCHE CONDITIONS - - STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION

Components/objectives           Measures taken before the Measures to be taken                  Measures to be taken
                                first tranche release             before the second tranche before the third tranche
                                                                  release                       release

A. Policy and Regulatory
Reform

1. Support to the country's     Satisfactory macroeconomic        Satisfactory macroeconomic    Satisfactory macroeconomic
restructuring and privatization performance, including            performance included continuedperformance included continued
program.                        continued compliance under the compliance under the Extended compliance under the Extended
                                Extended Arrangements with        Arrangements with the IMF andArrangements with the IMF and
                                the IMF and with the structural   with the structural reforms   with the structural reforms
                                reforms supported by the Bank.    supported by the Bank. MET    supported by the Bank. MET
                                MET

2. Develop legal basis for      Amend the Law on
addressing environmental        Restructuring and Privatization
liabilities.                    of State and Municipal
                                Enterprises and its
                                amendments, and the
                                Environmental Protection Law
                                to explicitly retain the State's
                                liability for past environmental
                                damages. MET

                                Parliamentary approval of the



                                                                - 20 -

3. Reform environmental
legislation to allow for the  Water Act satisfactory to the
application of temporary      Bank. MET
emission norms.

4. Provide a legal framework  Parliamentary approval of the
for addressing off-site and   Subterranean Resources Act
hidden liabilities; land use  satisfactory to the Bank MET
issues related to contaminated
land, and a compensation
mechanism for landowners.

                              Adoption by the Council of
                              Ministers of a Regulation on
                              the principles, conditions and
                              procedures for settling the State
                              liabilities for historical
                              pollution. MET

B. Integrate Environment
Issues into Privatization
Transactions

1. Develop regulations about  Adopt an Order of the Minister
procedures and methodologies  of Environment and Waters of
to carry out EIAs, assess     Guidelines for the Scope and
environmental risks, and      Content of Past Contamination
integrate findings into       Damages. MET
privatization transactions.

                              Prepare and approve
                              Framework Remediation Plans
                              and Compliance Plans for
                              Kremikovtsi, Neftochim, and
                              Assarel Medet, annexed to the
                              Sales Purchase Agreements.
                              MET

                              Signature of Sales Purchase
                              Agreements including legally       Satisfactory progress according Satisfactory progress according

                              binding Framework                  performance indicators agreed to performance indicators
                              Remediation Plans, Compliancewith       the Bank in the               agreed with the Bank in the

                              Plans and Execution                implementation of Framework implementation of Framework

                              Agreements for Neftochim,          Remediation Plans, ComplianceRemediation Plans, Compliance

                              Kremikovtsi and Assarel            Plans, and Execution               Plans and Execution
                                                                 Agreements of the enterprises Agreements for enterprises
                              Medet, under which at least 67
                              per cent of the equity interest in considered  for the first tranche. privatized as conditions of the
                              the enterprise is transferred to a MET                                first and second tranches.
                                                                                                    SUBSTANTIALLY MET
                              private owner, for which the       Signature of Sales Purchase
                              total cost of remediation          Agreements including legally
                              exceeds $25 million:               binding Framework
                              (i) Environmental clauses
                              acceptable to the Bank included Remediation      Plans, Compliance
                                                                 Plans and Execution
                              in the Sales Purchase              Agreements for at least 3
                              Agreement; (ii) Remediation
                              Plan with cost caps approved byadditional     large (over 1000
                                                                 employees each) enterprises,
                              MOEW satisfactory to the           under which at least 67 per cent
                              Bank, annexed to the Sales         of the equity interest in the
                              Purchase Agreement; (iii)          enterprise is transferred to a



                                                             - 21 -

                                Execution Agreement signed         private owner, and for which
                                with MOEW, PA and MOF              the agreed cumulative cost of
                                satisfactory to the Bank and       remediation for these
                                annexed to the Sales Purchase      enterprises and those privatized
                                Agreement. MET                     as a condition for tranche one
                                                                   exceeds $50 million. MET

C. Framework for
Improved Environmental
Compliance

1. Accelerate the harmonization Develop and approve a              Pilot integrated environmental Pilot integrated permits
with EU Directive on IPPC and timetable and targets for            permits issued according to the according to the EU Council
develop and implement a pilot implementing pilot integrated        EU Council Directive 96/61 on Directive 96/61 on IPPC to at
program for accelerated         permits substantially according IPPC to at least 5 large           least 80% of all large industrial
adoption of the EU Directive    to the EU Council Directive        enterprises (each with at least enterprises (each with at least
for the metallurgical and       96/61 on IPPC. MET                 1,000 employees) in the         1000 employees) in the
chemicals sectors (ISIC                                            metallurgical and chemical      metallurgical and chemical
351-354, 371-372).                                                 sectors. MET                    sectors, and ensure compliance
                                                                                                   with the terms of the pilot
                                                                                                   permits. MET

2. Introduce compliance         Agreement on legally binding       Agreement on legally binding    Contracted amounts for
agreements with privatized      Compliance Plans annexed to        Compliance Plans annexed to     remediation and made
enterprises to ensure their     the Sales Purchase Agreements the Sales Purchase Agreements payments from the Remediation
compliance with Bulgarian/EU    for the enterprises privatized as for 3 additional large           Accounts for enterprises
environmental requirements.     a condition for the first tranche. enterprises. MET                privatized as a condition for
                                MET                                                                tranche one and tranche two of
                                                                                                   an aggregated amount
                                                                                                   acceptable to the Bank.
                                                                                                   SUBSTANTIALLY MET

3. Increase institutional       Establish an inter-agency          Maintain the inter-agency       Maintain the inter-agency
capacity for post-privatization coordinating body with the         coordinating body with          coordinating body with
oversight and enforcement of    participation of MOF, MOEW, membership satisfactory to the membership satisfactory to the
compliance.                     PA and MOI to oversee the          Bank to oversee the             Bank to oversee the
                                implementation of the EPSP.        implementation of the EPSP.     implementation of the EPSP.
                               MET                                 MET                             MET

                                                                   Taken measures satisfactory to Taken measures satisfactory to
                                                                   the Bank, or ensured that such the Bank, or ensured that such
                                                                   measures have been taken to     measures have been taken to
                                                                   mitigate any adverse social     mitigate adverse social impact
                                                                   impact of the EPSP identified   of the EPSP identified during
                                                                   during EIA public consultation EIA public consultation process
                                                                   process or during EIA           or during EIA monitoring
                                                                   monitoring activities. MET      activities. MET




                                                               - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Environmental Policy and Regulatory Reform Amendments to the Law on Restructuring                      Completed
in support to country's privatization program       and Privatization of State and Municipal
implemented                                         Enterprises and the Environmental Protection
                                                    Law that explicitly retain State liability for past
                                                    environmental damages; Approval of new
                                                    Water Act
Environmental concerns integrated into              MOEW issued an Order with Guidelines for           Completed
privatization transactions                          the Scope and Content of Past
                                                    Contamination; enterprises Remediation and
                                                    Compliance Plans annexed to Purchase
                                                    Agreements (Neftochim,Kremikovtzi, Assarel
                                                    Medet)
Framework for improved environmental                Adopt an Action Plan for Piloting IPPC             Action Plan Completed and Agreed. New
compliance implemented                              Permits; Agree on legally binding                  plan for Implementation of IPPC for the
                                                    Remediation and Compliance Plans as part           period 2003-2007 related to the
                                                    of the Sales Agreements; establish/maintain        implementation of Chapter 22 of the EU
                                                    an inter-agency coordinating body to oversee accession negotiations adopted and currently
                                                    implementation of Remediation and                  implemented.
                                                    Compliance Plans




Output Indicators:
                                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Satisfactory country macroeconomic                  Satisfactory macroeconomic performance             Firmly maintained throughout the project life.
performance and compliance under the IMF            recorded and good stand of IMF and Bank
and Bank agreements supporting structural           programs.
reforms.
Satisfactory progress according to agreed           10/1/2003: Four enterprises continue to make Status of completion** of agreed framework
performance indicators in the implementation notable progress, Two of them lag behind                  remediation plans prior to loan closing, as a
of Remediation Plans and Compliance Plans schedule. IMEC has increased                                 percentage of actual disbursement relative to
and Execution Agreements of the                     implementation oversight.                          agreed cost of remediation programs, as
enterprises considered for the tranch one.                                                             reported by MOF is: Assarel Medet-51%;
                                                                                                       Kremikovtzi 0.1% ; Neftochim-Luckoil
                                                                                                       Burgas 1. 7%; Sopharma 1%, Agropolychim
                                                                                                       47% and Neochim 26%. Program was
                                                                                                       extended and Execution Agreement were
                                                                                                       signed for ten new enterprises for additional
                                                                                                       BGN 39 million.
Signature of Sales Purchase Agreements              10/1/2003 Aggregated amount of budget              Disbursement from the state budget amount
and legally binding Execution Agreements            spending on remediation reached 68.3% of           to BGN 215 million. Substantially completed.
and RPs and CPs for at least 3 additional           the funds disbursed under Tranch 1 and 2.
large enterprises.
Issue pilot IPPC permits to at least five large 80% of the agreed enterprises with IPPC                IPPC permits issued, negotiated and signed
enterprises in the metallurgical and chemical       permits. Full compliance.                          as agreed.
sectors.
Maintain the inter-agency coordinating body         10/1/2003. IMEC established as standing            IMEC insitutionalized by a COM Decree in
with membership satisfactory to the Bank to         body to oversee extended remediation               2003 as a standing body for further
oversee the implementation of EPSAL.                programs under the updated GOB                     implementation of Execution Agreements and
                                                    Regulation on Environmental Liabilities.           remediation measures.

1 End of project
**Bank's guidance and monitoring of implementation progress of framework remediation plans, during supervision, was key to help the
IMEC in building capacity and continue monitoring and supervision of FRPs on thier own after the loan closure. Enterprise framework
remediation plans include a variety of sub-projects and technical measures which implementation will take much longer time,
from 5 to 6 years on average.




                                                                        - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




The EPSAL Loan in the amount of 49.5 million EUR was a LIBOR-based single currency loan
with a maturity of 20 years and a five years grace period at the standard interest rate for LIBOR
based loans in Euro. It was disbursed as follows: Tranche one in the amount of EUR 14,355,000
was released following loan effectiveness on May 10, 2002; Tranche two totaled 14,840,000 EUR
and was released on April 23, 2002; and Tranche three totaled 19,315,000 EUR was released on
January 8, 2004.




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/1998                   1    TEAM LEADER/FINANCIAL
                                             (1) ,ENVIRONMETAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENT POLICY AND
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1), LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

              05/1999                   1    TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENT POLICY AND
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECILIST(1) FMS (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1999                   1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             ENVIROMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             POLICY AND PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST(1)
                                             LEGAL COUNSEL,
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST(1) , FMS (1)
              12/1999                   1    TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             ENVIROMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
                                             AND PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST(1) LEGAL
                                             COUNSEL, OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST(1) , FMS (1)

 Supervision

              12/02/2000                4    TEAM LEADER/FINANCIAL            S               S
                                             (1); (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             ENV.SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANAL. (1)
              04/25/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/03/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S




                                              - 26 -

                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1); SECTOR MANAGER (1)
               04/24/2002              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               10/29/2002              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            ANALYST (1) FMS (1)


 ICR
               09/2003                      TEAM LEADER (1) ,
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)
                                            LEAD.
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPCIALIST(1); FMS (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            31.5                        132.30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 22.5                         70.10
  Supervision                           46.4                        181.45
  ICR                                     9.4                        45.36
  Total                                109.8                        429.21




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Prepartion Background Documents and Related Reports ( most available in hard copies):

1. Feasibility Study for Increasing the Supply of Unleaded Gasoline in Bulgaria, Chem Systems Ltd.
Report , Funded by the UK Know How Fund , February 1996
2.Preliminary Environmental Audit report for Neftochim, Chem Systems Ltd. Report, August 1996,
3. Neftochim Burgas AD Environmental Audit: Arthur Andersen and Hyder Consulting Report No.
SH11623 Volume I and II, July 1999
4. Environmental Impact Assessment of Agropolychim Devnya ( Bulgarian) INCO Apostol Minchev
Consulting, Varna, 1998
5. Land and Water Contamination Investigation, Agropolychim, PHARE Report OSS no. BG
9805001-02/01 March, May 2000 Volume I and II
6.Environmental Compliance Program, Agropolychim, Carl Bro Group - POVIK Report March 2000
7. Environmental Impact Assessment of Kremikovtzi (Bulgarian), Balkan Science and Education Center of
Ecology and Environement, Volume I, II and III Sofia, May-July 1999
8.Environmental Impact Assessment of Assarel Medet and Remediation Plan (Bulgarian), Report Volume I
and II, Polyconsult ECO, Sofia , September 1999
9. Assessment of Environmental Remediation Costs to facilitate Sale of Sate Owned Enterprises, Stage I,
II, and III Assessment report on Sopharma Site, Sofia, Report OSS No. BG9805-01/01 Volume I and III
and Annexes, November 2000
10. Environmental Impact Assessment and Remediation plan of Neochim, Dimitrovgrad ( Bulgarian)
Volume I , II and III and Annexes, POVIK , July 2000
11. Final Report on Environmental Impact Assessment of Neochim, Dimitrovgrad, Report of Balkan
Science and Education Center of Ecology and Environment, Volume I and II September 2000
12. Past Pollution Assessment and Remediation Plan for Kremikovtzi, WS Atkins International Ltd, Report
No. BJ0134.006/GTG980539/R001, PHARE SARA Program Council of Ministers , November 1998
13. EPSAL Semi-annual Progress Reports (Bulgarian and inofficail translations), Ministry of Environment
and Ministry of Finance (2001, 2002, 2003)
14. Action Plan for the Introduction of Pilot IPPC Permits In Bulgaria, CEI Consult Report, June 2000
15. Private sector comments on outcome of EPSAL program.

Project Documents:

1. Mission Terms of Reference (various)
2. Back to Office Reports and Supervision Mission Reports (various)
3. Project Status Reports
4. Minutes of Negotiations
5. President's Report on EPSAL
6. Loan Agreement for EPSAL
7. Letters from the Government ( for compliance with loan conditions, extension of closing date etc.)
8. ICR for Bulgaria Environmental Remediation Pilot Project




                                                   - 30 -

- 31 -

