                                                     - 2 -


   Bulgaria: Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL) -Loan 4538 BUL

                                        Release of the Third Tranche


 I.      Background
         1.      The socialist system left Bulgaria with serious environmental problems and a relatively
         weak and ineffective institutional and regulatory system. Unsustainable industrial management
         practices of the state owned enterprises resulted in "hot spots" where people have been exposed
         to unacceptably high levels of pollution, and the accumulation of hazardous substances, which
         contaminated drinking water resources and threatened ecosystems with irreversible damage. The
         Government of Bulgaria (GOB) embarked on a structural reform program, which also aimed to
         address the environmental consequences of past environmental mismanagement. During the past
         several years, GOB made significant progress in dealing with specific sources of pollution and
         building institutional capacity to address environmental priorities. A new Environmental
         Protection Act (EPA) adopted in 2002, has fully aligned national environmental legislation with
         EU environmental management principles and legal requirements.

 11.     Recent MacroeconomicDevelopments andProgressAgainst Tranche Release Criteria
         2.      Bulgaria's macroeconomic outlook remains favorable in 2003 due to growth
         improvements driven by structural reforms. Economic growth has been sustained at 4-5 percent
        per year. Macroeconomic stability has been maintained ,inflation is low' and public debt to
        GDP has been reduced below Maastrischt threshold of 60 percent. The Government posted a
        fiscal surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP and over performance of 1percent of GDP with respect to
        program. Unemployment has declined from 18.1percent in 2000 to 12.9as at October 2003. Per
        capita income has increased $1,220 in 1997to $1,790 in 2003. Household incomes rose in real
        terms by 18.8 in 2002 after having declined in two consecutive years. Poverty rate has decreased
        from 36 percent in 1997to 12.8in 2001. EU Commission has assessed Bulgaria's economy as a
        functioning market economy. Bulgaria closed 26 out of 30 chapters for EU Accession, including
        Chapter 22 on environment.

        3.      Privatization of the commercial and banking sectors is largely completed.The private
        sector as a share of GDP has increased from 53 to 64 percent in 2002. The privatization of the
        energy distribution companies is on track. The Government is moving forward the private
        participation in the district heating and water companies.Bank adjustment lending includes
        Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PALS),the first one approved by the Board in February 2003,
        which supports the Government's reforms aiming at: (a) completion of privatization and
        restructuring in energy and infrastructure; (b) improving the environment for private sector led
        growth; (c) deepening the financial sector; (d) reducing poverty and improving human capital,
        and better delivery of social services; and (e) support public administration reform and anti-
        corruption programs. The PAL program is on track with the second PAL being prepared for
        appraisal /negotiations.

        4.      To achieve the objectives of its economic program, the Bulgarian Government is fully
        committed to maintain sound and flexible macroeconomic policies centered on the Currency
        Board Arrangement and implement an ambitious reform agenda. In particular, the authorities
        have reduced the fiscal deficit to below one percent of GDP and aim to eliminate the deficit
        by 2005, conduct fiscal policy flexibly in the face of shocks, and maintain a high level of fiscal


' Twelve-month inflation at end October 2003 was 3.1%.

       reserve assets. A strict incomes policy for the state enterprise sector is enforced and measures
       aimed at facilitating the adjustment of labor markets are being implemented. The structural and
       institutional reforms, which constitute the third pillar of the policy strategy, are focused on
       creating a market economy that is competitive and can flexibly adjust to shocks.

       5.        The IMF has been leading in supporting Bulgaria's medium-term program in maintaining
       macroeconomic stability. Building on the achievements of the three-year Extended Fund Facility
       (EFF) arrangement with Bulgaria, in February 2002 the IMF Board approved a two-year Stand-
       By Arrangement (SBA) with Bulgaria, which focuses on medium-term fiscal challenges and
       structural reforms with significant macroeconomic, typically fiscal, implications.

       6.        Despite the challenges Bulgaria continues to maintain macroeconomic stability in the
       context of the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA), by sustaining structural reforms and
       establishing business environment conducive to growth, together with improved governance,
       deeper financial system, and investments in human capital and physical infrastructure. According
       to IMF's Third Assessment Bulgaria has the right mix of macroeconomic policies to continue to
       enjoy robust macroeconomic growth and macroeconomic stability2, Therefore, the requirements
       for maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic performance for the release of tranche three are fully
       met.

111.   Government'sPerformanceand Commitmentto theLoan

       7.        Overall the progress made by the Government on the EPSAL implementation was
       satisfactory. Although there were some delays in meeting the remaining loan conditions by July
       30 ,2003 for disbursement of tranche three, the Government demonstrated consistent and sound
       efforts to overcome the delays in the ongoing remediation programs, eliminate formal obstacles,
       and accelerate implementation in good partnership with participating enterprises.The
       commitment of the Government to address historical pollution beyond project targets is
       noteworthy. Indeed, the Government is expanding the EPSAL model to additional eight
       industrial enterprises (KCM Plovdiv, Provadsol Provadia Elatzite, MedGorupso Madan, OCK
       Kuradjali, Gorupso Luki ,Osogovo Mine, Pirel Gotze Delchev) and is using the EPSAL process
       to work towards harmonization with EU environmental acquis. Furthermore, the institutional
       responsibilities and procedures for addressing environmental liabilities has been formalized in the
       Government Decree No. 78 from April 2003. The EPSAL has raised significant interest from
       industries not included in the pilot of integrated environmental permits. The Government has
       approved a plan for issuance of 225 IPPC by 2005, by applying the EPSAL permit model for
       industries to which the provisions of EU IPPC Directive apply.

IV. StatusofEPSALSpecificTargets
       8.       Progress toward meeting the specific targets for tranche three release, other than the one
      requiring maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic condition, is briefly described below.

           (1)            Pilot integruted environmentalpermits issued according to theEU Council
                Directive 96/61 on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) to at least 80%
                of large enterprises in the metallurgical and chemical sectorsfrom the agreed list3 (each
                with at least 1,000 employees) and thereafter ensured compliance with the terms ofpilot
                permits. Integrated pilot permits, substantially according to IPPC Directive have been
                completed for the following enterprises: Solvei Sodi-Devnja, OCK-Kurdjali, KCM


IMF Country Report No. 03/206, July 2003, Bulgaria: Third Review under the Stand by Arrangement

The agreed list of enterprises from metallurgical and chemical sectors include twenty-one enterprises.

                                          - 4 -


      Plovdiv, UMICOR-Pirdop, Chimcho-Vraza, Sviloza Svistov,Agropolychim-Devnja,
      Sofarma Sofia, StomanaIndustry Pernik, Promet Burgas, Neochim Dimitrovgrad,
      Orgachim Russe, Biovet Peshetera, Polimeri Devnja, Balkanpharma Razgrad,
      Balkanpharma Dupnitza, Sofia Med Sofia, Radomir Metali Radomir, Nova Plama
      Pleven. Permits were issued for 19 out of 21 enterprises, which is nearly 90 percent of the
      agreed list. The new EPA, adopted in 2002 establishes solid foundation for
      implementation and monitoring of enterprises' environmental performance, which goes
      beyond EPSAL terms. Environmental Inspectorates of MOEW will monitor compliance
      on the basis of integrated permits. These actionsfully satisfy the requirements for tranche
      disbursement.

(ii)           Satisfactory progress made in implementation of Framework Remediationplans
      ( F W ) and Complianceplans (CP) in theprivatized enterprises consideredfor thefirst
     and second tranches (Assarel Medet, Kremikovtzi AD, Neftochim-Likoil, Neochim,
     Agroplychim, and Sofarma). Implementation is progressing satisfactory despite some
      delays fiom original schedule. Four enterprises (Assarel -Medet, Neochim, Sofarma,
     Agropolychim-Devnja) have made significant progress in implementing substantial part
     of remediation and compliance plans. For the purpose of tranche three release this
     progress satisfies the loan condition. Recently Kremikovtzi AD reports progress on
     agreed measures with the Government for accelerating implementation of remediation
     plan. Similarly,Neftochim-Luckoil is in the process of finalizing the arrangements for
     signing of the contract for processing of oil sludge. All enterprises report substantial
     private investments in improved technologies and monitoring. For instance Neftochim-
     Luckoil has invested nearly US$50 million in environmental upgrading of the refinery.
     The Government has put in place all institutional and financial arrangements to sustain
     and monitor implementation of remaining remediation activities and compliance plans
     after the loan closing date. A revised Regulation on the State Liability for Environmental
     Damage has been adopted and gazetted, which includes provisions for institutional
     responsibilities, financing and monitoring of remediation programs. The 2004 State
     budget includes provisions for financing of remediation plans. Government commitment
     and steps undertaken for establishing and maintaining institutional and financial
     arrangements for completion of remediation plans and extending the EPSAL instrument
     over eight new enterprises signify substantial achievement of policy development
     objectives of the loan. Although Kremikovtzi and Neftochim-Luckoil remediation plans
     lag behind in the overall progress made up to date in the other four enterprises provides a
     satisfactory basis to assume that remediation and compliance efforts will be sustained and
     completed in a satisfactory manner. These actions substantially satisfy this condition.

(iii)ExecutionThe Government has exercised its rights andfulJilled its obligations under the
                Agreements concluded with buyers of enterprises in such a manner toprotect
     the interest of the bank and Borrower and to achieve thepurposes of theprogram, and
     except as the bank otherwise agreed, the Borrower has not suspended or terminated
     Execution Agreement concluded in connection with sale of any of the enterprises,
     abrogated or waived any such Execution Agreements or anyprovisions thereoJ The
     Government oversees and coordinates the implementation of remediation plans based on
     the terms and conditions of Execution Agreements signed with the six enterprises. The
     Execution Agreements are legally binding and annexed to the Sales Purchase
     Agreements, which engages the Post- Privatization Agency in monitoring of enterprise's
     performance including investment commitments for environmental compliance. Funds
     for remediation programs are provided annually from the state budget to ensure
     uninterrupted implementation of agreed remediation measures. Procurement of services
     and goods follows the Bulgarian Public Procurement Law. In a few remediation items,
     IMEC has approved minor changes based on engineering designs andjustified by the

                                                     - 5 -


                   selected remediation technology. These actionsfully satisfy the requirement for tranche
                   disbursement.

              (iv) oversee Inter-agency coordinating body with membership satisfactory to the Bank to
                           implementation of the EPSAL maintained. An inter-governmental oversight and
                   coordinating body representing key stakeholder ministries is fully functional and
                   supported by a standing Inter-Ministerial Expert Council (IMEC) at all times.
                  Furthermore the IMEC has been institutionalized pursuant to the provisions of GOB
                  Decree No 78, from April 3,2003. These actionsfully satisfy the requirement for tranche
                   disbursement.

              (VI          Measures satisfactory to the Bank have been taken to mitigate any adverse social
                  impact of the EPSP identijied during EIApublic consultation process or during EIA
                  monitoring activities. There has been no indication of adverse social or environmental
                  impact or concerns related to remediation projects during the Environmental Impact
                  Assessment (EIA) public consultations or project implementation. Hence, there is no
                  need for mitigation measures by the Government as stipulated in Schedule 3, Section I1
                  (5). Therefore, tranche conditions related to these actions are consideredfully met.

              (vi>FrameworkPayments were madefrom the Remediation Accountfor activities under the
                               Remediation Plans above an aggregate amount acceptable to the Bank. Up
                  to date the Ministry of Finance reports aggregate disbursements for remediation measures
                  under the six signed Execution Agreements of total of BGN 215,148,000 which is 68.3
                  % of the total amount of tranche one and two. The Ministry of Finance informed that by
                  end of 2003 additional payment will be made which will allow to reach an aggregate of
                  70%. These actionsfully satisfy the requirement for tranche disbursement.


V. Conclusion and Recommendation


         9.       In view of the overall performance and progress with implementation of the program
         supportedby the Loan, and in compliancewith the specific conditions of release as describedin the
         Loan Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower of the availability of the third tranche in the
         equivalentof EUR 19,810,000.




P:BULGARIAIRUREWEWENV-REM.SUP\SSPN\03-IFinal Memo Tranche Release (maria'scomments).doc
Irene Bomani
                                           6-18
December 19,20034:04 PM

