Report No. PID6958
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Environment and Privatization (@)
Adjustment Support
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BGPE57927
Borrower                         Republic of Bulgaria
Coordinating
agencies                         Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Environment and Waters
Date PID Prepared                September 1998
Date PID Update                  September 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 1999
Board date                       January 2000
Background
Bulgaria began its transition from a centrally planned to market economy at
the end of the 1980s. Despite progress in some areas, structural reform
necessary to underpin macroeconomic stablization were not pursued vigorously,
and the socialist and coalition governments failed to adequately address the
deteriorating economic situation. The privatization of state owned
enterprises moved slowly and the majority of the state assets remained in
public ownership. In light of the mounting economic crisis, public
dissatisfaction grew, and the socialist government stepped down in early
1997. The new government has introduced a series of reforms including the
establishment of a currency board and the acceleration of Bulgaria's
privatization program.
The socialist system left Bulgaria with serious environmental problems and a
relatively weak and ineffective institutional and regulatory system.
Unsustainable industrial management practices of the state owned enterprises
resulted in the infamous "hot spots" where people have been exposed to
unacceptably high levels of pollution and accumulation of hazardous
substances which contaminated drinking water resources and threatened
ecosystems with irreversible damage.
Bulgaria's Environmental Strategy Study (FY 93) and its Up-date and Follow-up
(FY 95) identified key priority areas for environmental action which would
focus on issues such as (i) reduction of lead and other heavy metals from the
environment; (ii) mitigation of particulate emissions; (iii) abatement of
sulfur dioxide and other irritant gases; (iv) water resources management and
protection of drinking water, and (v) forestry management.
The economic crisis in 1996-97, deeply affected the country's economy. The
economic contraction affected in particular local and foreign investments.
Financial resources available to the industrial sector from internal and
external sources have declined drastically. Consequently, necessary measures



to improve environmental performance in the industrial sector have not been
made.
The Bulgarian government now pays serious attention to the existence of
environmental problems. It considers privatization as an opportunity to
encourage and force polluting industries to improve their environmental
performance, adopt internationally recognized environmental management
practices, as well as comply with appropriate environmental regulations. A
few industrial plants are currently able to comply with the existing
Bulgarian environmental regulations with respect to their emissions and any
future regulations which will be adopted, as Bulgaria moves to implement EU
environmental directives. There is need for a clear legal framework
supported by mechanisms to (a) assess the magnitude of past liabilities, (b)
develop plans for appropriate remediation and management of the liabilities,
(c) agree on the respective responsibilities of the government (as seller)
and the new owners for implementing and financing these plans, and (d)
dealing with hidden liabilities whose extent and nature only emerge after
privatization is completed. It is clear that the responsibility for future
compliance with environmental regulations must lie with the new owners.
Loan description
The proposed loan will support the Government of Bulgaria to address the
environmental legacy of the past, which is a major concern, especially for
sectors where environmental liabilities are large. These include enterprises
from the mining and metallurgy, chemicals and petrochemicals and oil refining
industries. The loan will provide budgetary support to the government of
Bulgaria through a sector adjustment multi-tranche lending operation designed
to (i) improve environmental policies by incorporating environmental issues
into privatization; (ii) facilitate the harmonization of Bulgarian
environmental legislation with western standards; (iii) implement on a pilot
basis, environmental permits based on EU requirements, and (iv) address past
environmental damages in privatized enterprises. In particular, the loan
will support the comprehensive reform of Bulgarian environmental policies,
the establishment of a satisfactory framework for incorporating environmental
issues into privatization, and measures to accelerate the implementation of
the EU Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control. The EPSL
will complement the Bank's support to the GOB, to reform the public
enterprises sector under the proposed present and future adjustment lending
and compensate for the budgetary cost shortfalls associated with the
implementation of State legal obligation to environmental liabilities. In
the longer-term, the measures under the EPSL will yield substantial benefits
from better environmental quality and from the demonstrated commitment to EU
membership, even though the short term costs for clean-up of industrial
pollution are significant for a country that is going through a very
difficult period of economic and fiscal adjustment.
Loan objectives and benefits
The key objectives of the EPSL is to achieve environmental improvements and
support the privatization of highly polluting enterprises by reforming
environmental legislation, establishing a consistent framework for
integrating environmental issues into the privatization, and accelerating the
harmonization with EU environmental requirements and practices. The
-2 -



objectives of environmental regulatory reform supported by EPSL are to (i)
streamline and improve environmental regulations; (ii) facilitate the
harmonization of Bulgarian legislation with those of the European Union (EU);
and (iii) establish a consistent framework for addressing past environmental
liabilities
The main benefit of the loan would be its support to the GOB's policy and
regulatory reform aimed at (i) improving environmental conditions; (ii)
protecting human health and sensitive ecosystems from excessive pollution,
and risks posed by past environmental damages; and (iii) improving
environmental performance in highly polluting industrial sectors. The
mechanism designed under the project will enable the government to deal
systematically with environmental remediation and compliance issues for
enterprises under privatization. The immediate beneficiaries of the loan
would be workers and populations in environmental "hot spots" and highly
polluted industrial areas. Indirectly, Bulgarian people would all benefit,
as the loan facilitates the privatization of large enterprises, which will
contribute to better economic performance and higher budgetary revenues.
Several factors are of major importance for achieving the loan objectives:
Availability of detailed information about the environmental liabilities of
enterprises under privatization, and the introduction of clear environmental
requirements into the privatization process.
Active involvement of MOEW, environmental experts, and other stakeholders
early on in the privatization process.
Establishment of a legally binding environmental agreement as part of the
sale agreements.
Clear commitment of the new owners to the implementation of remediation and
compliance plans.
Strong post-privatization oversight by the relevant government agencies.
Lessons from previous operations
The proposed operation builds on lessons from the Environmental Remediation
Pilot Project (ERPP), currently under implementation in Bulgaria, as well as
other projects from countries in Central and Eastern Europe, and Latin
America, in addressing environmental issues raised during privatization.
Poverty category:
N/A
Environmental aspects and category
The loan is expected to generate significant environmental benefits by
establishing a framework for improving environmental conditions and
performance, and implementing the remediation plans of privatized
enterprises.  Additional benefits will be generated from improved management
of privatized enterprises and private investments in cleaner air production
and pollution abatement.
The GOB, both as financier and environmental regulator, will be responsible
for reviewing and approving environmental impact assessments, remediation
programs and proposed investments. Therefore the environmental category for
the project is FI.
Environmental Remediation and Compliance plans have been broadly harmonized
with Western procedures and practices. These will be prepared, reviewed,
publicly discussed, and approved according to the Bulgarian EA requirements.
-3 -



Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Tel 202-458-5454
Adriana Damianova
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202)473-2159
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 1, 1999.
The ERPP provided assistance in the assessment of environmental risks,
agreements on Environmental Compliance and Remediation Plans, and the
implementation of Remediation Plan for MDK-Pirdop Copper Smelter.
- 4 -



