OFCIAL
DOCUMONTS
CREDIT NUMBER 4072 GUI
Agreement Providing for
the Amendment and Restatement
of the
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              ,2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4072 GUI
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR
THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF
THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT      (this "Agreement"), dated   /h   Z     -, 2012
between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated
September 29, 2005, as amended prior to the date hereof (the "Original Development
Credit Agreement") in the manner hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
Section 1.01. As of, and with effect from, the date hereof the Original
Development Credit Agreement shall be (and it is hereby) amended and restated in the
form set out in the Annex hereto (the "Amended and Restated DCA").
ARTICLE II- DATED COVENANTS
Section 2.01. The Borrower shall, no later than three (3) months after the date of
this Agreement:
(a)    adopt a revised PIM (as defined in Amended and Restated DCA) and
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual (as defined in Amended and
Restated DCA), both in form and substance satisfactory to the Association reflecting the
revised implementation arrangements under the Amended and Restated DCA; and
(b)     recruit for the Project Management Unit (as defined in Amended and
Restated DCA) (i) a Project coordinator, (ii) two (2) specialists for health care services
strengthening, and (iii) one specialist for monitoring and evaluation, each in accordance
with Schedule 3 to the Amended and Restated DCA.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE III - MISCELLANEOUS
Section 3.01. With effect from the date hereof, all references to the
"Development Credit Agreement" contained in any documents delivered under or
pursuant to the Original Development Credit Agreement, to the extent such documents
have not been terminated or released on or prior to the date hereof, shall be construed as
references to the Amended and Restated DCA as it may be further amended from time to
time.
Section 3.02. Save as amended pursuant to this Agreement, all other terms and
conditions of the Amended and Restated DCA shall remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Conakry, Guinea, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By
z      rntatv
INTERNATIONAL D VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By            Authorized Representative


﻿-3-
ANNEX
To Agreement providing for Amendment and Restatement of the
Development Credit Agreement
CREDIT NUMBER 4072 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 29, 2005


﻿-4-
CREDIT NUMBER 4072 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS:
(A) the   Association  has  received  a  letter  from  the  Borrower,
dated April 22, 2005, describing a program designed to contribute to the socio-economic
development of the Borrower through improvement of the health of its population (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such program;
and
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1,
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the
words "corrupt or fraudulent" with the words "corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Annual Work Plan" means the plan referred to Section D. I of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;


﻿-5-
(b)    "Beneficiary" means a Community group, civil society organization, or private
sector entity to which or for whose benefit a Subproject Grant is made or
proposed to be made;
(c)    "Rural Development Community", "Communaut Rurale de Dgveloppement", or
"CRD" means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 092/PRG/SGG/90 of October 22, 1990, representing a
designated area and population within the territory of the Borrower;
(d)    "Commune" means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Law No. 91/034/PRG/SGG of August 3, 1991, representing a
designated area and population within the territory of the Borrower;
(e)    "Community" means a socially cohesive local population in an area of the
Borrower;
(f)    "Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs" or "Direction des Affaires
Administratives et Financibres" or "DAAF" means the unit within the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Health responsible for administrative and financial
management of said Ministry;
(g)    "Dispensary" or "Poste de sant" means a Health Structure responsible for the
provision of health services in the first instance and which is run by one (1)
nurse;
(h)    "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1-7 set forth in the table in Part A.1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)    "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works, and
consultants' services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(j)    "Extended Program of Immunization" means the Borrower's program designed
to vaccinate fully 90% of children under one (1) year of age against tetanus,
measles, tuberculosis, polio, diphtheria, whooping-cough, hepatitis B, and yellow
fever;
(k)    "Financial Management Agency" or "FMA" means the agency to be contracted
by the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Public Health pursuant to
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement and whose responsibilities are set out in said
Section;
(1)    "Financial Management Services Agreement" means the agreement concluded
between the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Public Health and an FMA
pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(m)    "Financial Monitoring Report" or "FMR" means each report prepared in
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-6-
(n)    "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which runs from January 1
through December 31 of the same year;
(o)    "Five-Year Plan" means the Borrower's plan, adopted on June 1, 2001 and
covering the period from 2005 to 2009, for management and development of its
health sector, including coordination of donor efforts in the sector;
(p)    "Guinean Francs" or "GNF" means the currency of the Recipient;
(q)    "Health Center" or "Centre de santi" means a Health Structure responsible for the
provision of health services to the population of large villages and which employs
at least two (2) health workers;
(r)    "Health Mutuals", means the community-based mutual health insurance
cooperations of the Borrower offering broader health coverage;
(s)    "Health Structure" or "Structure de sant6" means an entity of the Borrower
responsible for the provision of health services or a unit of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Health responsible for the provision of administrative
services;
(t)    "Health Structure Management Committee" or "Comiti de gestion des structures
de santd" means the committee responsible for the administrative, financial, and
technical management of a Health Structure and which includes representatives of
the local population and of health workers;
(u)    "Health Team" means the Borrower's health team established pursuant to Part
A.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and whose responsibilities are set out in said
Part of said Schedule
(v)    "IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United
Nations;
(w)    "Implementation Completion Report" means the report prepared jointly by a
borrower and the Association and which assesses the degree to which a project
achieved its development objective and outputs as set out in the project
documents; other significant outcomes and impacts; prospects for the project's
sustainability; and Association and borrower performance, including compliance
with relevant Association safeguard and business policies, also providing the data
and analysis to substantiate these assessments and identifying the lessons learned
from implementation;
(x)    "Improved Health Center" means a Health Structure responsible for the provision
of health services in certain large rural communities and which is run by
physicians;


﻿-7-
(y)    "Initial Deposit" means the initial amount referred to in Section 3.03(b)(i) of this
Agreement and to be deposited in the Project Account pursuant to Section
6.01(a)(ii) of this Agreement;
(z)    "Intermittent Treatment Prevention Program" means the Borrower's malaria
prevention program in respect of pregnant women;
(aa)   "Financial, Accounting, and Administrative Procedures Manual", "Manuel de
Procedures de Gestion Administrative, Financiere, et Comptable", or "FAAPM"
means the manual adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this
Agreement containing details of the financial, accounting, and administrative
procedures, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any annexes thereto;
(bb)   "Millennium Development Goals" means the development goals adopted by
members of the United Nations on September 8, 2000;
(cc)   "Ministry of Public Health" or "MOPH" means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for public health;
(dd)   "Multi-Sectoral HIV / AIDS Project" means the Borrower's project designed to
limit and control the spread of the HIV / AIDS epidemic;
(ee)   "National Medical Waste Management Plan" or "NMWMP" means the plan,
adopted by the Borrower on December 23, 2002 under its Multi-Sectoral HIV /
AIDS Project, setting out the institutional arrangements and measures necessary
to ensure proper management of medical waste in its territory;
(ff)   "National Quality Council" means the Borrower's institution responsible for
quality control of service delivery, including in the health sector, in the territory
of the Borrower;
(gg)   "Non-Governmental Organization" means an organization established and
operating as such under the laws of the Borrower;
(hh)   "Operational Action Plan" or "OAP" means the plan prepared by Health
Structures at the village, Prefectoral, Regional, or central level of the Borrower's
administration and setting out the activities to be carried out by the Health
Structures at the village, Prefectoral, Regional, or central level of the Borrower;
(ii)   "Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU" has the meaning given to such term in
Part A.2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(jj)   "Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper" means the Borrower's strategy, adopted on
July 25, 2002 and prepared through a participatory process involving civil society
and development partners, including the World Bank and International Monetary


﻿-8-
Fund, describing the Borrower's macroeconomic, structural, and social policies
and programs to promote growth and reduce poverty as well as associated
external financing needs;
(kk)   "Prefecture" means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Law No. 079/PRG/SGG/86 of March 25, 1986, representing a
designated area and population within the territory of the Borrower;
(ll)   "Procurement Plan"  means the   Borrower's  procurement plan, dated
April 28, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding
18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation;
(mm) "Project Account" means the account established pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(i)
of this Agreement;
(nn)   "Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the manual adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement containing details of the
procurement arrangements, environmental monitoring and mitigation, including
medical waste management, arrangements, and other organizational and
administrative arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for
purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any
annexes thereto;
(oo)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted by
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf
of the Association on January 1, 2004 and on behalf of the Borrower on January
21, 2004;
(pp)   "Region" means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant to
the Borrower's Law No. 079/PRG/SGG/86 of March 25, 1986, representing a
designated area and population within the territory of the Borrower and
comprising a group of prefectures;
(qq)   "Report-based Disbursements" means the Borrower's option for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule I to this
Agreement;
(rr)   "Reproductive Health Training and Research Center" means the Borrower's
institution to be established in Conakry under external donor financing for
purposes of training and research in the health sector;
(ss)   "Roll Back Malaria Program" means the Borrower's program to fight against
malaria to reduce the mortality and morbidity burden linked to malaria;


﻿-9-
(tt)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule I to this
Agreement;
(uu)   "Steering Committee" has the meaning given to such term in Part A.2(a) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(vv)   "Subproject" means a development activity proposed by a Beneficiary under Part
A.2 (d) of the Project and financed or to be financed through a Subproject Grant
made out of the proceeds of the Development Credit;
(ww) "Subproject Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower
to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects;
(xx)   "Subproject Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower
represented by its MOPH and a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and
conditions under which proceeds of the Development Credit shall be made
available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects;
(yy)   "UNFPA" means the United Nations Population Fund;
(zz)   "UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund;
(aaa)  "WHO" means the World Health Organization;
(bbb) "Work Program" means a set of development activities under a Health
Structure's OAP, proposed by the Health Structure under Part A.1 (a)-(d) of the
Project and financed or to be financed through a Work Program Grant made out
of the proceeds of the Development Credit;
(ccc)  "Work Program Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Health
Structure by the Borrower represented by its MOPH for the purpose of financing
a Work Program; and
(ddd) "Work Program Grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower
represented by its MOPH and a Health Structure represented by its Health
Structure Management Committee, setting forth the terms and conditions under
which proceeds of the Development Credit shall be made available to the Health
Structure for the purpose of financing a Work Program.


﻿- 10-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2013 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency


﻿-ll-
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2015 and ending May 15, 2045. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2025 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)    requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)    requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling
six (6) months or more after the date on which the
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however,
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five
(5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)    If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and


﻿-12-
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
(d)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, through its MOPH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate medical, public health, environmental, including medical waste management,
financial, and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    For purposes of Part A. 1 (a)-(d) of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through the MOPH, allocate proceeds of the Credit not exceeding those allocated to
Category (5) of the table in Part A.1 of Schedule I to this Agreement to be used to
finance WPA Grants under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, and which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Part B.2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)    For purposes of Part A.2 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through
the MOPH, allocate proceeds of the Credit not exceeding those allocated to Category (6)
of the table in Part A. I of Schedule I to this Agreement to be used to finance Subproject
Grants under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
and which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.
(b)    The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the
Association's approval.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through its MOPH, finance its contribution for
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit:
(a)    open a Project Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01
(a) of this Agreement, and thereafter maintain such account throughout Project
implementation;
(b)    (i) make an Initial Deposit of GNF 350 million into the Project Account in
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; and (ii) thereafter, on
a quarterly basis, or whenever the account is below GNF 175 million, replenish the Project
Account; and
(c)    ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made,
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the
Association; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule I to this
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
(i)    retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿- 15-
(ii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iii)  ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower's progress reporting
obligations set out in Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, which:
(i)    sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;
(ii)   describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
explains variances between the actual and planned Project
implementation; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the
end of the period covered by said report.
(b)    The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such
calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General
Conditions, that is, the Borrower has, through its MOPH:
(a)    (i) opened in GNF, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, a
Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure, and attachment; and (ii) made an Initial
Deposit of GNF 350,000,000 in said account;
(b)    adopted the PIM and the MFAAP in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association;
(c)    concluded a Financial Management Services Agreement with an FMA
for purposes of Project financial management under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including: (i) establishment and maintenance of a financial management
system in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (ii) carrying out of all
aspects of Project financial, procurement, and contract management in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, the PIM, and the MFAAP; (iii) building capacity of the
DAAF in Project financial, procurement, and contract management; and (iv) transfer of
Project financial, procurement, and contract management responsibilities to the DAAF on
an incremental and annual basis;
(d)    employed a firm for purposes of conducting the audit referred to in
Section 4.01(b)(i) of this Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 11
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and
(e)    concluded performance-based contracts with at least ten (10) Health
Structures in the 18 Prefectures targeted under the Project under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Conakry
Guinea
Telex:              Facsimile:
22399 MIFIGE        (224) 42 21 02
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS                    248423 (MCI) or     (202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.            64145 (MCI)


﻿-18-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.     General
I.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Goods                         9,289,000         100%
(2)   Works                            40,000         100%
(3)   Consultants' services,        2,000,000         100%
including audits
(4)   Training, including             800,000         100%
study tours
(5)   Work Program Grants           3,100,000         100% of amounts
(Goods and                                      disbursed
consultants' services)
(6)   Subproject Grants               210,000         100% of amounts
disbursed
(7)   Incremental operating costs     811,000         100%
(8)   Refunding of                    350,000        Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation                             to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance                                         this Agreement
(9)   Unallocated                          0
16,600,000
TOTAL


﻿- 20 -
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses
incurred by the MOPH on account of Project implementation, management, and
monitoring, including office space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank charges,
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment
maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs, and advertising costs, but excluding
salaries, honoraria, fees, and bonuses of members of the Borrower's civil service.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)    prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)    in respect of Category (5) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, unless
the Subproject Grant thereunder has been provided in accordance with the procedures and
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the PIM, and the
MFAAP; and
(c)    in respect of Category (6) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, unless
the Work Program Grant thereunder has been provided in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the PIM, and
the MFAAP;
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and
works costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) for services of
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
5.     The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the


﻿-21 -
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has
been made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.
B.     Special Accounts
I.    The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars special deposit accounts
(Special Account A in respect of Categories (5) and (6) of the table in Part A. I of this
Schedule, and Special Account B in respect of Categories (1)-(4) and (7)-(9) of the table
in Part A.1 of this Schedule) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be
deposited into the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)    if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.     Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall
not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)    if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to
in Part A.5 of this Schedule I adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;
(b)    if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account; or


﻿- 22 -
(c)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of: (A) the records and accounts for the respective Special Account; or (B) the records
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-
based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case
may be.
5.     The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the
respective Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for
making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.     (a)    If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the
respective Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in
the respective Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c)
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not
Report-based Disbursements
I.     For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
(a)    in respect of Special Account A, the amount of $500,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into said Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts
allocated to said Special Account's Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories,
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 700,000; and
(b)    in respect of Special Account B, the amount of $1,500,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into said Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$750,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts
allocated to said Special Account's Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories,
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.     Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the


﻿- 24 -
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule I to this Agreement for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into
the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.    The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.


﻿- 25 -
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are
Report-based Disbursements
1.     Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into
the respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement. Each such deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.     Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on
the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule I applicable to such withdrawal
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during
the six-month period following the date of such reports.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the coverage and quality of maternal
and child health services in targeted districts and targeted health centers in the peri-urban
areas of Conakry.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
A.     Health Care Services
I.     Quality of care
(a)    Strengthening of chain-of-care for at-risk deliveries, including in respect
of early identification of such deliveries by traditional birth attendants, through provision
of: (i) drugs to Health Structures; and (ii) basic medical and office equipment and
furniture to Health Structures and training to traditional birth attendants, through
implementation of OAPs under Work Program Grants provided to Health Structures;
(b)    Achievement of improvement in quality of basic and emergency
childbirth care in public and private Health Centers and in adherence to norms of such
care through provision of: (i) medical equipment and drugs to such Health Centers; and
(ii) technical advisory services and training to and renovation of such Health Centers,
through implementation of OAPs under Work Program Grants provided to Health
Structures;
(c)    Achievement of improvement in quality of emergency childbirth care at
higher levels of health services network, namely, in Improved Health Centers, Prefectoral
hospitals, and private clinics, through provision of: (i) medical equipment, drugs, and
vehicles to said entities; and (ii) technical advisory services and training to said entities,
through implementation of OAPs under Work Program Grants provided to said entities;
(d)    Achievement of increase in utilization of family planning services and of
integrated mother-child intervention activities, including Extended Program of
Immunization, through provision of: (i) medical equipment, drugs, and vehicles to Health
Structures; and (ii) technical advisory services and training to Health Structures, through
implementation of OAPs under Work Program Grants provided to Health Structures;


﻿- 27 -
(e)    Strengthening of prevention, treatment, and operational research under
Roll Back Malaria program through provision of equipment, including bed nets, anti-
malarial drugs, and vehicles, technical advisory services, and training to Health
Structures;
(f)    Achievement of improvement in access to care through strengthening of
patient referral system through provision of wireless communication equipment to Health
Centers and wireless communication equipment and ambulance vehicles to Improved
Health Centers and Prefectoral hospitals; and
(g)    Achievement of improvement in obstetrical service delivery through
provision of: (i) medical equipment and drugs to Health Centers, Improved Health
Centers, Prefectoral hospitals, and private clinics; and (ii) technical advisory services to
said entities and recruitment and training of midwives for Improved Health Centers and
Prefectoral hospitals.
2.     Community mobilization
(a)    Support to development of Health Mutuals through provision of medical
equipment, vehicles, technical advisory services, and training to new Health Mutuals;
(b)    Support to management of Health Centers by Communes and CRDs in
six (6) pilot Prefectures, with evaluation of pilot serving as basis for extension of scheme
to other 12, through provision of office equipment, technical advisory services, and
training to Communes and CRDs in said Prefectures;
(c)    Achievement of increase in public awareness and official accountability
in respect of Borrower's health expenditures through publication of budgets and
expenditures of Health Structures through provision of small office equipment and
technical advisory services to said structures; and
(d)    Carrying out of health information, education, and communication
campaigns, and identification of at-risk deliveries and of children under a year old for
purposes of Diphtheria-Tetanus-Whooping Cough-Polio third dose (DTCP3) vaccination
coverage through implementation of related Subprojects under Subproject Grants
provided to Community groups, civil society organizations, and private sector entities.


﻿- 28 -
B.     Institutions
I.     Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation systems of the health sector through
training, preparation and distribution of annual health bulletin, surveys, technical
assistance, provision of computers, software and other office equipment.
2.     Support to implementation of NMWMP through provision of equipment
incinerators and protection materiel such as gloves, wheel barrels, technical advisory
services, and training to Health Structures, and carrying out of public awareness
campaign in respect of NMWMP.
3.     Support to Reproductive Health Training and Research Center through provision
of medical and office equipment and furniture, technical advisory services, and training
to said center.
4.     Project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation (i) provision of
office furniture and equipment, including information technology equipment, vehicles,
technical advisory services, including for purpose of research and studies, and training,
including workshops and study tours in the Borrower's region, to entities involved in
Project implementation and financing of incremental operating costs of said entities; and
(ii) strengthening the DAAF and its decentralized units, including in respect of financial,
procurement, and contract management, through contracting of an FMA and provision of
office furniture and equipment, including information technology equipment, vehicles,
technical advisory services and training to the DAAF.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2013.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.   General
A.     All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with
the provisions of this Schedule.
B.     All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV
of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this
Schedule.
C.     The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts,
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
Section II.  Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other
than Consultants' Services)
A.     International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines,
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic
contractors.
B.     Other Procurement Procedures
I.    National Competitive Bidding.  Goods estimated to cost less than
$150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of National Competitive Bidding.
2.     Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping.


﻿- 30 -
3.     Direct Contracting. Goods to which the Association agrees and meet the
requirements for Direct Contracting, may be procured through direct contracting in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.     Community Participation. Works and services required for Part A. 1 of
the project may be procured on the basis of Community participation in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association and described in the PIM.
5.     Procurement from UN Agencies. Goods required for Parts A and B of
the Project and vaccines and drugs regardless of cost may be procured directly from
IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, or WHO in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1
and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.
Section Ill.  Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
A.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of
this Section, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants.
B.     Other Procedures
1.     Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Association
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
3.     Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.    Individual Consultants.  Services for assignments that meet the
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the


﻿-31 -
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis.
Section IV.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower,
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each
contract for goods and services (other than consultants' services) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding; (b) the first ten (10) contracts for works under Part A. I (b) (ii) of the Project
procured on the basis of Community Participation; (c) each contract procured on the basis
of Direct Contracting; (d) each contract for consultants' services to be provided by a firm
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants'
services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more;
and (f) each contract procured on the basis of Single Source Selection. All other
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1.     The MOPH, headed by its Secretary General, shall be responsible for
coordination of Project implementation in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the PIM, and the MFAAP.
2.     The Recipient shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project:
(a) a steering committee (the "Steering Committee") with functions and resources
satisfactory to the Association. The Steering Committee shall be responsible, inter
alia, for (i) providing strategic guidance, (ii) monitoring the overall progress of the
Project and (iii) at the central level, reviewing and approving the Annual Work Plans,
as well as the Project Report, FMRs and other reports required from time to time
under this Agreement in connection with the Project. The Steering Committee shall
be chaired by the Secretary General of the MOPH and include representatives from
the MOPH's departments, UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO; and
(b) a Project coordination unit (the "PCU" or "Project Coordination Unit), under the
purview of the Secretary General of the MOPH, with staff, functions and resources
satisfactory to the Association. The PMU shall be responsible, inter alia, for day-to-
day management of the Project. The PCU shall be composed, inter alia, of (i) a
Project coordinator, (ii) two (2) specialists for health care services strengthening, and
(iii) one specialist for monitoring and evaluation, all with skills, qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association.
3.     The Borrower shall establish a Health Team comprising:
(a)    at the Regional level, five (5) representatives from the respective Region,
including the respective Regional Director of Health as Chair, the respective Regional
Director of Hospitals, and at least one (1) midwife. The Health Team, at the Regional
level, shall be responsible for coordination and supervision of the respective Prefectoral
Operational Action Plans.
(b)    at the Prefectoral level, five (5) representatives from the respective
Prefecture, including the respective chief resident acting as Chair, at least one (1)
midwife, and at least one (1) pediatrician. The Health Team, at the Prefectoral level,
shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) training of health personnel at Dispensaries, Health
Centers, and Improved Health Centers; (ii) supervision of all Health Structures under its


﻿- 33 -
responsibility in the Prefecture; and (iii) quality enhancement of the Health Structures in
said Prefecture.
4.     The Steering Committee at the central level and the Health Teams at the
Regional, and Prefectoral levels shall be responsible for screening of health service
delivery contracts with Health Structure Management Committees, Non-Governmental
Organizations, Health Mutuals, and the private sector.
5.     The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the
Financial Management Services Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement.
6.     The Borrower shall, within six (6) months of the Effective Date, develop and
establish a computerized contract tracking and monitoring system, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
7.     The Borrower shall carry out a data collection survey: (a) at least once during the
first year of Project implementation; (b) prior to Midterm Review; and (c) at Project
completion.
8.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the
criteria, policies, procedures, and arrangements set out in the PIM and MFAAP; and (b)
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the PIM or MFAAP or any
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or
adversely affect Project implementation.
B.     Work Programs
I.     General
(a)    Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall appraise, approve, and monitor the Work Programs under Part A. I (a)-
(d) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Part B, the PIM, and the
MFAAP.
(b)    The Health Team at the respective Prefectoral level shall appraise and
approve Work Programs.
2.     Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Work Programs
(a)    Each Dispensary, Health Center, Improved Health Center, and
Prefectoral Hospital shall prepare an action plan on an annual basis, submit it to the


﻿- 34 -
Health Team at the respective Prefectoral level for approval, and subsequently conclude
an agreement with the respective Prefectoral Director of Health for implementation of
said plan.
(b)    The respective Prefectoral Director of Health shall prepare the respective
Prefectoral OAP on an annual basis in light of the Borrower's Five-Year Plan, and submit
it to the Health Team at the respective Prefectoral level for approval, and subsequently to
the respective Regional Director of Health for signature.
(c)    The respective Regional Director of Health shall prepare the respective
Regional OAP on an annual basis in light of the Borrower's Five-Year Plan, and submit it
to the Health Team at the respective Regional level for approval, and subsequently to the
Secretary General of the MOPH for signature.
(d)    The PCU shall prepare the central-level OAP on an annual basis in light
of the Five-Year Plan, and submit it to the Steering Committee for approval, and
subsequently to the Secretary General of the MOPH for signature.
(e)    No proposed Work Program shall be eligible for financing under the
Project unless the Steering Committee has determined, on the basis of an appraisal
conducted in accordance with this Section, the PIM, and the MFAAP, that the proposed
Work Program satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the
PIM and the MFAAP, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i)    the proposed Work Program shall be initiated by a Health
Structure which meets the eligibility criteria specified in the
PIM, and such group, organization, or entity shall be eligible for
subsequent Work Program Grants if it has completed the Work
Program to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association;
(ii)  the proposed Work Program shall be for, but not limited to,
activities set forth in Part A. 1 (a)-(d) of the Project and further
detailed in the PIM; and
(iii)  the financing of the proposed Work Program shall be fully
covered by the amount of the Work Program Grant.
3.     Terms and Conditions of Work Program Grant Agreements
(a)    A Work Program shall be carried out pursuant to a Work Program Grant
Agreement, to be concluded between the Borrower and a Health Structure under terms


﻿- 35 -
and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, described in further detail in the PIM and
MFAAP, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(i)    the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Work
Program with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound medical, public health, environmental, including
medical waste management, financial, and administrative
practices; and (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources,
operations, and expenditures relating to the Work Program;
(ii)   the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants' services
to be financed from the proceeds of the Work Program Grant
shall be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring
efficiency and economy and with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Work Program; and
(iii)  the right of the Borrower to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods,
works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Work
Program, the operations thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (B) obtain all information as it, or the Association,
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation,
and financial condition of Work Programs; and (C) suspend or
terminate the right of any Health Structure to use the proceeds of
a Work Program Grant upon failure by the Health Structure to
perform any of its obligations under the Work Program Grant
Agreement;
(b)    the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Work Program Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association
and to achieve the Project objectives, and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Work Program Grant
Agreement or any substantive provision thereof.


﻿- 36 -
C.     Subproiects
1.     General
(a)    Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall appraise, approve, and monitor the Subprojects under Part A.2 (d) of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Part C, the PIM, and the MFAAP.
(b)    The Health Team at the respective Prefectoral level shall appraise and
approve Subprojects.
2.     Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Subproiects
(a)    Subprojects shall be prepared on an annual basis, submitted to the Health
Team at the respective Prefectoral level for approval, and subsequently to the respective
Prefectoral Director of Health for signature.
(b)    No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under the Project
unless the Health Team has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in
accordance with this Section, the PIM, and the MFAAP, that the proposed Subproject
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the PIM and the
MFAAP, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i)    the proposed Subproject shall be initiated by a Community
group, civil society organization, or private sector entity which
meets the eligibility criteria specified in the PIM, and such
group, organization, or entity shall be eligible for subsequent
Subproject Grants if it has completed the Subproject to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association;
(ii)   the proposed Subproject shall be for, but not limited to, activities
set forth in Part A.2 (d) of the Project and further detailed in the
PIM;
(iii)  the investment cost of each proposed Subproject shall not
exceed $10,000 equivalent, except as previously agreed with the
Association; and
(iv)   the financing of the proposed Subproject shall be fully covered
by the amount of the Subproject Grant.


﻿- 37 -
3.     Terms and Conditions of Subproiect Grant Agreements
(a)    A Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a Subproject Agreement, to
be concluded between the Borrower and a Beneficiary, under terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Association, described in further detail in the PIM and MFAAP, which,
inter alia, shall include the following:
(i)    the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Subproject
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
medical, public health, environmental, including medical waste
management, financial, and administrative practices; and (B)
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the resources, operations, and expenditures
relating to the Subproject;
(ii)   the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants' services
to be financed from the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall be
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and
economy and with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Subproject; and
(iii)  the right of the Borrower to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods,
works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Subproject,
the operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(B) obtain all information as it, or the Association, shall
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation, and
financial condition of Subprojects; and (C) suspend or terminate
the right of any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of a Subproject
Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its
obligations under the Subproject Grant Agreement;
(b)    the Borrower, as the case may be, shall exercise its rights under the
Subproject Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of
the Association and to achieve the Project objectives, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Subproject
Grant Agreement or any substantive provision thereof.
D.     Safeguards
I.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the
criteria, policies, procedures, and arrangements set out in the NMWMP; and (b) not


﻿- 38 -
amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the NMWMP or any provision
thereto, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely
affect Project implementation.
E.     Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval as soon as
available, but in any case not later than January 31 of each year, the Annual Work Plan
and budget for such year, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, with confirmation of availability of the Borrower's contribution for
expenditures under the Project for such year.
Annual Reviews
2.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIM and
acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about November 1, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
(c)    review with the Association, by December 1, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
Midterm Review
4.     The Borrower shall:


﻿-39-
(a)    carry out jointly with the Association, no later than 18 months prior to
the Closing Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project implementation, as
measured against the performance indicators referred forth in the PIM and acceptable to
the Association. Such review shall include an assessment of the following: (i) overall
progress in Project implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities;
(iii) budgets; (iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; (v) performance of the
FMA in respect of building capacity of the DAAF in financial, procurement, and contract
management; and (vi) progress in establishment of Reproductive Health Training and
Research Center; and make adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve
performance, if needed;
(b)    prepare and furnish to the Association, three (3) months before such
review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed to undertake
the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)    review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views
on the matter.


