Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 163 79-MOG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONGOLIA
ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 27, 1997
Environmental and Municipal Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1997)
Currency = Tugrik (Tug)
$1.00 = Tug 730
Tug 1.00 = $0.0014
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square meter (m2) = 10.7639 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (ki2) = 0.3861 square mile (mil)
I cubic meter (m3) = 35.3147 cubic feet (ft3)
I liter (1)   0.2642 US gallon (gal)
liter per capita per day (/c/d) = 0.2642 US gallon per capita-day
cubic meter per second (m3/sec) = 35.3145 cubic feet per second
Regional Vice President :Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director               :Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief         :Jane Loos, EA2EM
Staff Member           :Edouard Motte, Senior Sanitary Engineer, EA2EM



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
ASP        Activated Sludge Plant
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CTP        Community Heating Center
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GMC        General Maintenance Company
FSU        Former Soviet Union
IAAS       Internationally Accepted Accounting Standards
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
IDC        Interest During Construction
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
LIB        Limited International Bidding
MID        Ministry of Infrastructure Development
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MUB        Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NUUTS    Ulaanbaatar Waste Disposal Company
OSNAAK  Ulaanbaatar Housing and Communal Services Company
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
STP        Sewage Treatment Plant
TA         Technical Assistance
TANK       Water tank trucking service
UB         Ulaanbaatar
USAG       Water and Sanitation Company of Ulaanbaatar
USIP       Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project
Mongolia Terms
Aimag      Province
Duureg    Municipal district, containing several khoroo
Ger        Traditional Mongolian felt tent
Kantor     Housing and Communal Services Unit
Khoroo    Lowest municipal administrative level






MONGOLIA
ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Mongolia
Beneficiary:              Municipality of Ulaanbaatar and the Water and Sanitation
Company of Ulaanbaatar (USAG), the Municipality's water
supply and sewerage utility
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                   SDR 12.3 million ($16.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:           0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See Table 4.2
Economic Rate of Return:   Water supply component: 15 percent
Traditional area infrastructure upgrading: Not quantifiable
Maps:                     IBRD 28690
Project ID Number:        MN-PE-36052






CONTENTS
1. MONGOLIA'S URBAN SERVICES SECTOR .......................................................1
A. Mongolia: A  Country in Economic Transition ..................................................1
B. The Urban Setting .........................................................2
C. Sector Institutions .........................................................5
D. Government Sector Strategy .........................................................5
E. Rationale for IDA  Involvement in the Proposed Project .....................................6
F. Lessons Learned from  Previous Projects ..........................................................7
2. URBAN SERVICES IN ULAANBAATAR .......................................................9
A. Ulaanbaatar: How  it Has Developed ..........................................................                 9
B. Urban Service Provision in Modem and Traditional Housing Areas ............... 10
C. Water Supply and Sanitation .........................................................                        12
D. Solid Waste Services .........................................................                               15
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES                                              ...................................... 16
A. Municipality of Ulaanbaatar ........................................................                         16
B. Agencies Involved in the Municipal Water Supply Sector ............................... 18
C. Sector Improvement Action Plan ........................................................                     21
4. THE PROJECT ........................................................                                                    24
A. Project Origin and Objectives .24
B. Project Impact Indicators ...............................                                                    25
C. Project Description ...............................                                                          26
D. Status of Project Preparation ...............................                                                31
E. Costs and Financing ...............................                                                          32
F. Procurement ...............................                                                                  34
G. Disbursement ...............................                                                                 36
H. Project Management and Implementation ...............................                                        37
I. Land Acquisition and Resettlement ...............................                                            37
J. Environmental Considerations ...............................                                                 38
K. Community Participation ...............................                                                      39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mongolia in April
1997. Project team members included Edouard Motte (Senior Sanitary Engineer and
Task Manager), Kyung Wook Hur (Financial Analyst), Evan Rotner (Economist,
Consultant), Jadviga Halka (Institutional Specialist, Consultant) and Dirk Elsen (Legal
Counsel). Assistance in writing the report was provided by Patricia Brereton-Miller
(Operations Analyst). Peer reviewers for the project were. Henry Boldrick (EC 1 IN), Julie
Viloria (ASTTP), Richard MacEwen (EC2AW) and Heinz Unger (ASTEN).



- ii -
L. Accounting  and Audit .....................................................                                        39
M. Monitoring, Reporting  and Supervision .....................................................                         40
5. FINANCE .....................................................                                                                 41
A. Municipal Finance .....................................................                                            41
B. USAG:  Financial Performance to Date .....................................................                           42
C. USAG:  Financial Projections .....................................................                                 43
6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .....................................................                                                   46
A. Overview .....................................................                                                     46
B. Economic Analysis .....................................................                                            46
C. Affordability .....................................................                                                48
D. Risks .....................................................                                                        49
E. Sensitivity  Test .....................................................                                            50
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 51
ANNEXES
Annex 1: The Ulaanbaatar Water Supply System .55
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .59
Annex 3: Project Performance and Impact Indicators .62
Annex 4: Water Supply Metering .64
Annex 5A: Sector Improvement and USAG Development Action Plans ......................... 68
Annex 5B: USAG: Current Organization and Development Action Plan ....................... 71
Annex 6:    Technical Assistance Terms of Reference ..................................................... 83
Annex  7:    Detailed Project Cost Estimates .....................................................                              106
Annex  8:    Schedule of Procurement Packages .....................................................                              110
Annex  9:    Schedule of Disbursements .....................................................                                    114
Annex  10:  Project Implementation Schedule .....................................................                               115
Annex  11:  Schedule of Supervision .....................................................                                       117
Annex  12:  Financial Analysis of Ulaanbaatar Municipality .......................................... 121
Annex 13: Financial Analysis, Projections and Assumptions for USAG ...................... 127
Annex  14:  Economic Analysis of the Project .....................................................                              132
Annex  15:  Ger Area Upgrading and Cost Recovery ..................................................... 140
Annex  16:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ........................ 153
MAP
IBRD 28690: Ulaanbaatar: Location of Project Components .154



- 111 -
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs ..............................                                                       32
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan .............................                                                         33
Table 4.3: Procurement Arrangements .............................                                                       34
Table 5.1: Current Tariff Structure .............................                                                        43
Table 5.2: Basic Parameters and Indicators .............................                                                45






- 1 -
1. MONGOLIA'S URBAN SERVICES SECTOR
A. MONGOLIA: A COUNTRY IN ECONOMIC TRANSITION
1.1   Mongolia, landlocked between Russia and China, is a relatively poor country,
with a per capita gross domestic product (GDP) of only about $440 in 1996. Compared
with many other low-income countries, Mongolia's economy is relatively well
diversified, with agriculture-primarily livestock-accounting for about 20 percent of
GDP; industry-principally mining and wool, cashmere, leather and food processing-
for 45 percent of GDP; and the services sectors, including a large government sector, a
weak banking system and a growing private wholesale and retail trading sector,
accounting for the balance.
1.2   Mongolia is among the world's most sparsely-populated countries (1.46 per km2),
with an area of some 1.6 million km2-half the size of India-and a population of only
2.32 million people. About a quarter of the population are nomadic herders whose
livestock outnumber the human population 11 to 1. Land, although relatively abundant,
has limited productivity and a short growing season because of the country's harsh,
semiarid continental climate and relatively high altitude. Besides sizable reserves of
copper and other minerals, Mongolia has a potential for petroleum production in
commercial quantities. The population is well educated, with an adult literacy rate of 96
percent and a sizable skilled labor force. Until 1990 and the end of its 70 years as a
centrally planned economy, Mongolia benefited from substantial grant financial
assistance (estimated at 30 percent of GDP annually) and managerial assistance from the
former Soviet Union (FSU).
1.3   With the collapse of the Soviet Union, the attendant sudden withdrawal of its aid,
and the collapse of demand from traditional Soviet-bloc trading partners who accounted
for 95 percent of its exports, Mongolia suffered a massive economic shock. Real GDP
fell by 20 percent during 1990-93, causing a sharp deterioration in both the external
payment position and the Government's fiscal position. The Government responded with
an austerity program characterized by gradual liberalization toward a market economy,
including price decontrol and privatization. In 1992-93, small enterprises and livestock
ownership were rapidly privatized, and by end-1994, the assets of about 1,200 large
public enterprises were privatized, although the remaining 200 public enterprises still to
be reformed account for over 30 percent of employment and value added in the economy.
1.4   At the same time, hyperinflation forced severe government cutbacks, causing
delivery of social services to plummet and with them, social conditions:  school
attendance dropped 30 percent, maternal mortality doubled, the real value of pensions fell
by 60 percent, wages nearly halved, and an estimated 30 percent of the population still



- 2 -
live below the poverty line. During this period, the Association assisted the Government
with foreign exchange support for critical imports, technical assistance in key
macroeconomic and sectoral areas and investments and technical assistance to begin
rehabilitating the transportation system. In 1996, a poverty assessment study (Report No.
15723-MOG) was backed up by projects to alleviate the effects of the economic
transition on the poor or vulnerable, and to rehabilitate a major coal mine.
1.5   By the end of 1996, the economy appeared to have weathered the worst of the
shocks, but is still fragile. After suffering negative growth during 1991-93, GDP grew by
2.5 percent in 1994 and 6.3 percent in 1995. But with a 33 percent decline in copper
prices and 10 percent drop in cashmere export prices, growth in the first half of 1996 fell
to less than 1 percent. Although major macroeconomic targets agreed with external
lenders are being met, the pace of reform slowed in 1995-96, and the challenges for the
policymakers remain daunting. Mongolia's leaders must: continue and deepen structural
reform; maintain satisfactory levels of income; reduce the poverty level; improve the
welfare of pensioners; and reduce inflation. Though down from its 1993 high of about
325 percent, inflation was still about 50 to 60 percent in 1995/96, primarily due to loose
monetary and fiscal policies, excessive bank and government credit creation, weak budget
revenue generation and defaults on debt payments by state enterprises. Two recently
approved IDA projects aimed at banking and enterprise reform should help with some of
these problems.
1.6   Mongolia's new national government, elected in mid-1996, has announced a
wide-ranging, accelerated reform agenda. The major objectives are to: (a) speed up
company privatization; (b) reduce tax burdens on producers by 30 percent; (c) improve
tax administration and broaden the tax base; (d) promote foreign investment; (e) improve
foreign assistance coordination; (f) refocus social security on the most needy; (g) reduce
govermnent expenditure and, to achieve better governance, prepare a code of ethics for all
government members.
1.7   By end-1996, the Government had already implemented some courageous sectoral
and macroeconomic reforms conforming with the goals outlined above. These included:
(a) raising electricity and heating tariffs by 60 percent; coal prices by 45 percent and
petroleum prices by 29 to 60 percent; (b) abolishing price commissions that were
controlling prices of basic commodities in major urban centers; (c) enacting new laws on
central and commercial banking operations; and (d) reducing the number of ministries
and departments from 16 to 9.
B. THE URBAN SETTING
Urbanization in Mongolia
1.8   Of the national population of 2.32 million in 1995, about 55 percent were urban.
Overall population growth in the 1990s has been about 2 percent a year, while urban
growth averaged only 1 percent but was concentrated in the three largest cities, as smaller
rural centers declined. Political and economic changes in the 1990s are believed to have



- 3 -
caused increased migration to the larger urban areas at the expense of the smaller towns.
Currently, about a quarter of the population or an estimated 620,000 people lives in the
capital city of Ulaanbaatar (UB), and another 25 percent lives in other urban centers,
including the three next largest cities-Darhan with 91,300, Erdenet with 62,900 and
Choibalsan with 46,400. Except for those living in the capitals of the country's 17
aimags or provinces, averaging 20,300 each, most other people live in widely dispersed,
and much smaller, urban centers, essentially large villages.
Urban Services Delivery
1.9    Mongolia's cities bear the imprint of socialist urban planning, that is, a reliance on
rigid physical norms with little regard to user demand, technological alternatives, or
realistic resource constraints. The upshot of these policies has been lopsided urban
development. The combination of high standards for publicly-financed formal housing
and urban services and inadequate resources to provide such housing and services to all
city residents stranded a large segment of the urban population in self-financed housing in
plotted developments, where standards of facilities and services are much lower than
those in the formal housing areas. The traditional housing areas, known as ger areas,
comprise individually fenced plots and clusters of traditional round tents (gers)1 and/or
assorted low-cost structures ranging from wooden shacks to a scattering of two-story
brick houses.
1.10   Ger Area Services. Due to their supposedly temporary nature, the ger areas have
received the bare minimum of infrastructure investment, usually only individual
electricity connections and communal water collection points. The ger areas lack other
basic services, such as paved, or at least stabilized access roads, community services,
piped water supply and sanitation. Pit latrines are universal, and coal, wood or dung-fired
stoves are used for heating and cooking. There are generally few communal social
facilities. Local governments lay out and allot the individual plots to residents, with an
occupation right of unspecified duration. Whereas industries and apartments generally lie
within the serviced areas, most ger housing areas fall outside the piped water and
sewerage systems. Instead, ger residents must rely on water expensively trucked to and
sold from public water kiosks. And, while apartment residents obtain almost all their
services from public entities at highly subsidized prices, most services in the ger are
charged at full cost. This continues to hold true even though the ger areas house the
largest part of the urban poor, who constitute about 46 percent of the ger population. The
average income of ger households varies by location, but is estimated to be about $65
equivalent, or about 70 percent of average household income in the formal serviced areas.
1.11  In recent years, ger areas have tended to develop without control, because
newcomers generally identify a plot first and only afterward regularize occupancy with
I Ger tents have light, demountable wooden frame construction covered by several layers of felt and
canvas.



- 4 -
the local government administration. This results in occupancy of land unsuited for
residential use and difficult or expensive to provide with infrastructure or services. Such
is the case with gers situated on steep slopes, near hilltops above the reach of water
supply reservoirs, and in areas subject to flooding. In the future, the local authorities will
need to enforce controls on new settlement and clearly indicate the land open to new
settlement. The low density of the ger areas (at 10 plots/hectare-ha) and their spread
over an increasing area cannot continue as this also makes delivery of urban services
difficult and expensive. In this regard, the proposed project would include a study of ger
development planning in UB.
1.12  Urban Services in the Formal Housing Sector. With the important exception of
the ger areas, Mongolia has a reasonable-but possibly unaffordable-level of urban
services, mostly built over the past 20 years.
*  Over 100 piped water systems are operated in all centers, generally from deep
wells. These systems, augmented by tankered water outside the distribution
systems, serve about 81 percent of the urban population.
*  Major cities, two provincial centers and large towns are served by sewerage
systems and associated sewage treatment. Water and sewerage and other
services are handled by the same unit-whether a municipal company in cities
or a municipal department in large towns.
* Solid waste management is handled by the local governments. All urban
centers are served with some type of solid waste collection system.
1.13  Service Quality. The quality of the urban services provided has deteriorated
badly, in part because of the economic retrenchment and deep cuts in government
spending for maintenance. Since 1990, most capital investment and expansion projects
have been halted, and even minor repairs of existing assets has been severely curtailed.
In general, the formal utility services face severe equipment problems. All equipment
originated from FSU countries and is now difficult to replace or maintain with spares
because of the severance of relationships with previous suppliers and inadequate hard
currency to pay for imports. For instance, more than 10 percent of the wells in the well
fields supplying UB are inoperative due to faulty pumps; the municipal sewage plant
treats only 75 percent of the sewage due to defective pumps and equipment; and pipe
breaks take three to four days to repair due to lack of materials and equipment.
1.14  Low levels of cost recovery, typical of the Soviet era when users contributed little
and utilities received substantial subsidies for new investments, have exacerbated service
delivery problems. Metering-whether of water, heat, or power-on apartment blocks or
individual premises is almost nonexistent. Water and sewerage are billed on the basis of
low assumed consumption norms, and collection of bills may be as low as 50 percent in
the aimags and 80 percent in UB. While tariff levels cover full costs of the present low
level of operations and depreciation, they are insufficient to cover the costs of adequate



- D -
levels of maintenance and rehabilitation, much less new investments in the systems.
Recovery of solid wastes service costs is limited and has led to deteriorating and
unsatisfactory collection and disposal services. Solid waste is disposed to sites operated
as open dumps, accepting mixed industrial, institutional and domestic wastes, and having
no environmental controls. The lack of funds has also affected the staff working in the
sector, who have not benefited from training in efficient operational procedures.
1.15  The lack of maintenance and the overall deterioration in standards have also had
environmental repercussions. Industrial sewage is being discharged directly to rivers, and
aquifers used for cities' water supply are beginning to show pollution from heavy metals
and high concentrations of chemical oxygen demand. The Government's (draft) National
Environmental Action Plan places high priority on addressing these problems. Unless
urgent remedial steps are taken, the cost of restoring reliable urban services and a
sustainable environment is likely to rise sharply.
C. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Ministry of Infrastructure Development
1.16  The Ministry of Infrastructure Development (MID) has been responsible for
public services policy since 1994. MID has broad responsibilities, ranging from tourism
to coal mining and including the Department of Urban Development, Housing and Public
Utilities. The latter is responsible for: (a) formulating urban development policies;
(b) preparing the legal framework for urban development, housing, public services;
management coordination and inspection; (c) planning the funding of public services, and
(d) managing design and research and provision of government expertise. Reflecting the
importance now being given to municipal services by Mongolia's new National
government, in January 1997 a formerly semiautonomous government company, the
State Concern for Municipal Utilities, was absorbed in MID and renamed the Urban
Services Agency. Public utility companies in the provincial (aimag) centers and the
water supply and sewerage company in UB have to date been only nominally coordinated
by the Ministry; real responsibility rested with the local municipalities and aimag
governors.
D. GOVERNMENT SECTOR STRATEGY
1.17  After little action on the urban front since 1991 due to the economic crisis, the
Government's sector policies are being reinvigorated with a market orientation. In
December 1996, Parliament approved important Directives for the Economic and Social
Development of Mongolia, providing for (a) the drafting of a law on a real estate tax,
(b) implementation of land ownership measures and procedures, (c) an inventory and
evaluation of state-owned fixed assets, including property, (d) development of a housing
program, with new standards, and the resolution of problems relating to the financing of
private housing, and (e) renovation of water supply and sewerage facilities in cities and
settlements and improvement in their maintenance and levels of service. A Government
plan also exists to concentrate settlement and national infrastructure development around



five regional growth poles (including UB), supported by transport, communications and
energy corridors.
1.18  The new development policy is consistent with a draft statement of Mongolia's
urban development policy in its Medium-Term Strategy. The Strategy recognizes the
need for: (a) private sector and individual initiatives, not the Government, in replacing
ger housing; (b) better public provision of water supply and sanitation to the urban
population to improve productivity and quality of life and to reduce poverty; and (c) cost
recovery for the infrastructure services provided. The policy action matrix included in
the Strategy, similar to some of the goals of the proposed IDA project, would: (a) provide
water supply services to ger areas around UB; (b) establish effective demand
management (pricing) mechanisms that reflect the scarcity value of water resources; and
(c) improve sector planning in peri-urban areas.  While resource limitations-both
financial and human-may temper the implementation of the Strategy, the Government
seems prepared to expand the reforms already introduced in other areas of the economy to
the water supply sector. To this end, it is exploring ways to enhance its operational and
financial efficiencies while mitigating the inequality between ger areas and the apartment
sector. The proposed project would support both goals.
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE PROPOSED PROJECT
1.19  The proposed project supports three major goals of the Bank Group's June 1995
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), i.e., to protect the poor and other groups vulnerable
to the effects of the country's economic transition, improve economic infrastructure, and
promote a commercial orientation in local public enterprises. By delivering water supply
and other urban services to predominantly poor ger areas in UB, the project supports both
the Bank Group's objective of poverty alleviation in the country, and the Government's
own Poverty Alleviation Program launched in 1994 to reduce the proportion of the
population living below the poverty line and ease the social burden of structural reforms
introduced during the transition to a market economy. By improving UB's water
distribution network to benefit ger, apartment and other areas, the project responds to
immediate urban infrastructure requirements that have gone unmet due to severe funding
shortages. Project assistance for development and corporatization of UB's water supply
and sewerage utility is expected to strengthen the economic and financial management of
the system and facilitate the utility's development as a fully commercial entity. The
project would also introduce market-oriented provisions for, and management of, urban
services by providing better cost-recovery mechanisms as well as financial incentives for
water conservation and operational efficiency.
1.20 The project directly supports the Government's recently announced sector
strategy (para. 1.17) and complements other IDA-funded initiatives in Mongolia as well
as those financed by other donors. It builds on recommendations of IDA's 1994 informal
sector review, carried out as part of project identification, findings of the 1996 Mongolia
Poverty Assessment (Report No. 15723-MOG) and the Poverty Alleviation for
Vulnerable Groups Project (Cr. 2760-MN) now assisting the unemployed, disabled and



- 7-
poor women and children; the success for the ongoing implementation of this latter
project critically depends on the association of the Poverty Program Office with the local
Group Associations. In its goal of reducing water losses in UB, it complements a
proposed similar operation in the power sector to reduce energy losses in the capital.
Project initiatives also share goals of similar work being done by other multi- and
bilateral agencies, particularly the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA). All three are funding small water supply, sanitation and ger area improvement
schemes in other areas of the country, and JICA is supporting UB's rehabilitation of
water supply facilities; it also supports preparation of a drainage master plan for UB and,
in future, is expected to finance priority works under the plan.
F. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS PROJECTS
1.21  The Association has assisted Mongolia with three projects providing balance of
payments or technical assistance support, two for structural adjustment of the banking
and enterprise sectors, two for rehabilitation of the transport system and of the Baganuur
coal mine near UB, and one for protection of vulnerable groups during this difficult
period. The principal lesson leamed from these operations is the lack of local familiarity
with basic project activities like procurement and disbursement, which can result in
significant project startup delays and slower-than-expected progress thereafter. AusAID-
funded assistance for preparation of the project, therefore, included preparation of major
procurement packages for the first two project years.  A  four-member project
management team of intemational consultants would also assist the Project Management
Unit during the first 18 to 24 months of implementation. Such assistance should
accelerate project startup and build local capabilities. In addition, counterpart funding
constraints experienced under the Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2615, approved in
May 1994), due to the imposition during implementation of import duties and sales tax
on project inputs, would be avoided by including these taxes in the project cost estimate
and budgetary planning by the Central and Municipal Govermnent to provide the full
local funding requirement.
1.22  Experience gained outside of Mongolia has also influenced Project design. In a
review of urban projects in the past 20 years, the Operations Evaluation Department's
report "Twenty Years of Lending for Urban Development" stresses the importance of:
(a) ensuring ownership of the project through participation of beneficiaries from the early
stages to improve project design and reveal effective demand; (b) enhancing service
delivery efficiency in a sustainable way through cost recovery, based on effective
demand; and (c) making more efficient use of the existing infrastructure before
developing additional networks, as part of the borrower's clear understanding of
investment priorities.
1.23  The proposed project incorporates these lessons.  First, to ensure project
ownership, ger area leaders and representatives discussed their needs with the project
preparation team during several stages of the preparation process. And, to prepare



- 8 -
stakeholders to assume responsibility for management and financial reforms under the
project's institutional development component, during project preparation key utility
managers and staff participated in a study tour of major utilities being successfully
operated on commercial principles in neighboring countries. The positive feedback from
the latter exercise should strengthen commitments to the project's reform agenda.
Second, efficiency gains and cost recovery are key aims of the project's institutional and
financial development activities. Third, the project is posited on maximizing the use of
existing facilities rather than constructing new ones. Proposed water supply system
investments would utilize existing underused reservoirs to reduce water supply costs,
while the project's provision of some 13,000 water meters would enhance water
conservation, reduce water supply costs, and alleviate the need for new system expansion
during the next five years. Finally, project improvements in the ger areas will have
accompanying environmental benefits due to improved sanitation and solid waste
collection facilities.



- 9 -
2. URBAN SERVICES IN ULAANBAATAR
A. ULAANBAATAR: How IT HAS DEVELOPED
2.1   Ulaanbaatar, with about 620,000 people in 1995 or 27 percent of the national
population, is Mongolia's capital and the country's foremost city, having 42 percent of
commercial activity, 50 percent of housing and 52 percent of investment activity. Since
about 1970, its population has doubled, having grown at an annual average 6.8 percent in
the 1970s, at more modest rates in the 1980s, and at about 2 percent in the 1990s. UB
comprises six contiguous districts (duureg) and two districts enclaved in the adjoining
province-the mining town of Baganuur about 100 km away and a former military base
south of the city. While UB officially encompasses a total area of some 354,300 ha, the
built-up areas account for only 20,000 ha. The site of the present city, lying between the
Tuul River flood plain and the Khentii mountains, has been inhabited since ancient times.
2.2  In the 1950s, the Government promoted development of the industrial power
stations in the UB region, demolished much of the traditional settlements in the central
city area and erected apartment blocks in their place to house the inhabitants, together
with a skilled work force from Russia. The city plan prepared at that time, and its
subsequent modifications, envisaged the construction of a modem city of functionally
distinct zones, large-scale infrastructure and rented housing of four- to eight-story
apartment blocks. From the 1950s through the 1980s, this plan was substantially
implemented using the Government's control of production, construction, employment
and population movement. However, since the democratic reforms, these controls have
been loosened, costs and prices have risen, but unemployment has sharply increased and
for most people, real income has dropped. Due to these factors and to privatization of
industries, Government revenues have declined, as has its ability to limit in-migration or
maintain the pace of infrastructure construction to accommodate the rising growth of
population and small-scale enterprises.
2.3   Due to these economic and political changes, apartment building has now almost
stopped, and the majority of urban growth is in the ger areas surrounding the core
"apartment city." The future of Ulaanbaatar seems to be in "ger development," gers
being, in effect, low-cost suburban settlements. Families wishing to obtain a plot apply
to the local khoroo (the smallest level of the city administration) and are allocated a
300 m  or 500 m2 lot located and staked out by a survey from the city. Most new
residents obtain land in this way, although there is an increasingly active real estate
market. Only 10 percent of the plots are occupied by unregistered squatters. The
government-owned land and the region's semidesert, uncultivated landscape allow rapid
expansion of ger development with few legal or natural constraints.



- 10-
2.4   The individual plots are laid out in simple rectangular blocks with wide public
rights-of-way between plots. The plot-holders construct wooden fences around their
plots, then erect the ger tent, possibly a conventional wood frame permanent building,
and a pit privy toilet. Between one and four families may live on this plot, and one or
more of the families may periodically move to herd livestock in rural areas, then return to
their urban ger. Many families keep livestock on their plots or on the hills nearby.
Livestock forms a significant part of household incomes, especially since the reduction of
secure formal employment.
2.5   Socioeconomic surveys of ger residents in UB indicate that, although household
incomes are low (median income is $76 month for an average size household of 4.8),
income distribution is still fairly even (a positive legacy from the Communist period),
although it is gradually becoming more skewed as the market economy takes hold.
2.6   Despite the economic problems, UB has a number of advantages over other
capital cities in the developing world. It is not yet too large to be unmanageable. There
is no widespread squatting, and the settlement process is fairly orderly. Settlement
densities are fairly low, allowing scope to introduce services, and ger plot sites are large
enough to permit incremental housing development and for residents to obtain a valuable
future real estate asset. Distribution of income and assets (including urban land) is, as
yet, fairly equal, and social divisions (regional, ethnic, religious) are insignificant.
Literacy and education levels are high, potentially allowing informed dialogue and
participation in issues of urban planning, management and development.
B. URBAN SERVICE PROVISION IN MODERN AND TRADITIONAL HOUSING AREAS
2.7   The Modern Sector. About 55 percent of UB's population lives in fully-serviced
public housing estates, comprised of 3- to 12-story apartment buildings in prefabricated
modular construction. The housing estates, clustered near the city center and along the
city's main roads, are relatively well-served by public transport. The apartments have
cold and hot water, toilets and bathrooms, conventional piped sewage collection, on-site
and off-site piped stormwater drainage, electricity, water heating, elevators in higher
buildings and solid waste collection from apartment chutes. USAG, the municipal water
supply and sewerage company, provides cold water to the housing sites; and hot water is
generated in community heating centers on the housing sites. Apartment rents and utility
charges have until recently been heavily subsidized.
2.8   Ger Areas. The remainder of the population or some 250,000 to 270,000 people
live in 18 ger areas that sprawl mainly over the outlying hills and valleys to the north,
northwest and northeast of UB, several kilometers from the city's economic activity.
Densities in these areas are low, primarily due to the large plot sizes and the sporadic
distribution of ger settlements. At these low densities, the cost of servicing ger areas is
high, especially for roads and water supply. While the proposed project would extend
piped water supply to public water kiosks in ger areas, individual household connections
are currently unaffordable to most families. A greater problem exists when ger plots are



- 11 -
extended higher than the existing water reservoirs (the highest being 1,470 m). Above
this level, the current pressure in the water system cannot service kiosks in the areas.
2.9   The higher cost of providing municipal services to the ger areas does not explain
the minimal level of services there, which contrast sharply with the European-style,
middle-income standard of the apartments. Ger services are generally as follows:
*  excreta are generally disposed to pit latrines, and sullage to the ground and
natural drainage channels;
*  access is via rough, poorly-bridged earth roads. The wide rights-of-way are
often eroded by stormwater flows;
*  there is virtually no formal stormwater drainage system;
*  solid waste is sporadically collected from bins at the end of residential lanes
by local municipal workers;
-  high heating costs, in individual private wood or coal stoves, can consume
about 10 percent of average household expenditure;
-  housing is solely by private household investment and, to be affordable to low
ger incomes, is mostly in poorly-insulated wooden shacks or the traditional
nomadic tent-the ger;
-  water is supplied from neighborhood kiosks filled by public tanker trucks;
3  some schools have been built but virtually no community centers, health
clinics, or recreation areas. There are few shops or consumer markets, and the
latter are unsanitary and create local traffic congestion;
*  private transport is the dominant mode due to infrequent and low-density
public bus service; and
*  the failed privatization of ger bath houses nearly eliminated washing facilities
in the ger (currently only a few of the original 20 bathhouses are operating).
2.10  The inadequacy of public services to the ger is reflected in significant health
differences between ger and apartment dwellers. A 1993 UNICEF nutrition survey found
that infants born into ger area families had a 60 percent higher risk of low weight than
those born in apartments. Further, the incidence of diarrhea and acute respiratory
infections in ger children under five is about double the rate of children in apartments. A
ger household survey carried out during preparation of the proposed project indicates an
average household size of five people, with a median income of about Tug 53,200 a
month (about $76 at the current exchange rate), more than half of which is spent for food.
An estimated 30 percent of Ulaanbaatar's ger population live below the poverty line.



- 12-
C. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
The Network and Operations
2.11  Water Supply and Distribution. Most of UB's raw water supply is from four
groundwater extraction wellfields on an aquifer near the south-central part of the city at
an altitude of about 1,100 m. Streams from adjacent hills maintain the aquifer, thus
development, especially highly polluting land uses such as solid waste dumps, industry,
etc., needs to be located away from  these areas and adjacent slopes.  About
160,000 m3/day of water is supplied. Tests indicate that water quality in the sources is
good, and water pumped from the wells is only lightly chlorinated at the well heads.
From there, the water is pumped through distribution pipelines to industry, some
government buildings, to a water trucking operation delivering to ger water kiosks, and to
Central Heating Points (CTPs) that deliver hot-water heating as well as hot and cold
running water to apartments. A Japanese grant under discussion (para. 1.20) will provide
some equipment and meters in 1997 to assist in the monitoring of CTPs.
2.12  About 55 percent of the population, mostly in apartment blocks, is served by a
piped water supply. The distribution network consists of about 300 km of unlined steel
or cast iron pipes, ranging from 150 to 700 mm in diameter. Pipe trench depths are
generally between 2 and 3 m, in order to avoid freezing in UB's cold winters when
average daily temperatures range from -13 to -25°C. The currently inadequate service,
with intermittent flows and pressures, would be improved under the proposed project.
Details of the UB water supply system are given in Annex 1.
2.13  Reservoirs. The existing reservoir system is both underutilized (by half of its
capacity) and unintegrated, to the detriment of water pressure in the system as well as
service coverage. With three commissioned reservoirs (the Northwest, the "3/4 district"
and the Tasgan) in the hills north and east of UB not linked to each other, and two
completed reservoirs (the Northwest and the "X") not yet commissioned, system capacity
is far from being fully utilized to provide adequate system storage or gravity system
pressure. And none of the reservoirs, except the easternmost, are high enough to service
by gravity the large ger population in a large valley north of UB. For the most part,
pressure is maintained in the network by direct pumping from the well-head sources.
However, many areas suffer from inadequate water supply and pressure, and facilities
serving high-rise apartment blocks are not equipped to boost-pump water to the higher
floors in nine-story buildings. The proposed project would increase system efficiency
and improve pressure and service by bringing the unused reservoirs into operation and
constructing a transmission main to link four reservoirs to a new section of the city
supply network, also to be constructed under the project. Additional reservoirs would
also be constructed to provide a piped water supply to local ger communities.
2.14 Water Demand. The inequity of water supply in UB is indicated by the system's
skewed demand figures, which show about 55 percent of the population receiving about
75 percent of the piped water supply and 45 percent of the population (in ger) receiving a



- 13 -
mere 1.3 percent of the total. In 1995, water demand in UB totaled about 161,935 m3/d,
of which 121,532 m3/d was from apartments (296,420 persons at 410 lcd), 38,159 m3/d
from industry, and 2,244 m3/d from ger residents (224,443 persons at 10 lcd). While
UB's 74,000 apartments with hot and cold running water housed about 323,000 in 1995,
not all were supplied from the municipal network. Projections of future demand in the
year 2010 assume an average annual population growth of about 2.25 percent for
apartments dwellers, an apartment population of about 415,000 persons, and water
consumption at 320 lcd to reflect an increase in the standard of living and use of
appliances such as family washing machines. The ger population is expected to expand
at about an annual average 2.25 percent, reaching some 313, 800 in 2010 and consuming
about 25 lcd by that time. On this basis, water supply demand in 2010 would total some
217,600 m3/d, 7,840 m3/d from the ger, 132,630 m3/d from apartments and 77,137 m3/d
from nonresidential and industrial users.
2.15  Wastage. Studies indicate that about 30 percent of the 410 lcd (125 lcd) supplied
to apartments is wasted in water losses from leaking plumbing fixtures in apartments.
Since residential consumers' charges are based on norms rather than actual metered
consumption and USAG's low flat charges absorb only a small percentage of household
income, there are no incentives in the current system to conserve water. USAG receives
no revenue for an estimated 50 percent of the water it produces.
2.16  Ger Water Supply. Water to the ger areas is supplied by trucks drawing mostly
from USAG water stations, and service is unreliable, inconsistent and expensive, to both
the city and the residents. Ger dwellers are forced to get supplementary water from
elsewhere-rivers, surface water sources that can be polluted, wells or rainwater. The
tanker service is operated by TANK, a separate USAG department. The trucked-in water
is stored in tanks at 262 coal-stove-heated public water kiosks in the ger neighborhoods,
which are supposed to operate for about eight hours a day. Access to some kiosks is very
difficult and in adverse weather conditions tankers fail to supply the kiosks, forcing them
to close and leaving the ger residents unserved. A shortage or lack of heating fuel,
freezing or the absence of an attendant can also close the kiosks. The attendants,
employed by TANK, collect tokens from ger purchasers for a specific volume of water,
which the purchasers draw from a pipe at the kiosk. USAG/TANK charge the full cost of
tankered water to the ger. For water drawn from kiosks the price is Tug 400/'000 liter (in
1997)-about 20 times the Tug 20/'000 liter price paid by apartment residents in 1995
and 12 times the Tug 34/'000 liter tariff introduced in January 1997.
2.17  Water is usually fetched by women and children over a distance of 200 to 500 m,
in hand carts from kiosks to homes, over mostly rough, hilly, earth paths and roads. In
the winter, ice and snow impede access to the kiosks by both tanker trucks and ger
residents and water supply is erratic. Ger consumption from kiosks is about 7.5 to
10.0 lcd; the amount is limited by both cost and the difficulty of transporting the water
and is well below the minimum requirement for good health and sanitation, generally
considered to be 20 lcd. The total water supplied by TANK to ger areas, although



- 14-
probably underestimated by USAG, is only 2,244 m3/day, not even 2 percent of USAG's
daily demand.
2.18  Sewerage.  UB's apartment housing estates and institutional premises are
connected to a conventional 80 km underground sewer system operated by USAG. Most
industrial wastewater is discharged to the public sewerage system. The discharges are
expected to meet certain standards, but the latter are not rigorously enforced. An
industrial wastewater pretreatment plant of a 20,000 m3/day capacity exists but the plant
is old and not operating fully nor efficiently. It serves the wool and leather industries but
due to poor performance, outflow from the plant and into the domestic sewerage system
is likely to exceed standards.  The data maintained measure few of the relevant
parameters but still show an effluent quality inconsistent with discharge standards to
public sewers (particularly for the one heavy metal measured). If industrial wastewater
does not satisfy discharge standards, the Municipality has powers to close the operation,
require three times normal sewerage charges and impose other sanctions. This is rarely
done, however.
2.19  The entire city sewerage system flows by gravity to a single sewage treatment
plant (STP) for domestic and industrial wastewater streams located 11 km west of the city
center. The STP was designed to treat 230,000 m 3/day, and actual flows are in the range
of 150,000 m3/day. Only a proportion (perhaps 80 percent) of water consumed is likely
to reach the sewerage system, at least 60,000 m3/day is from industrial wastewater and
infiltration. The current sewage flow is very close to the amount of USAG water
produced, and confirms that system losses are recovered in the sewers.
2.20  The STP provides primary, secondary and tertiary treatment stages. Primary and
physical treatment components of the plant were constructed in 1963 and 1968, with the
biological treatment [diffused air activated sludge plant (ASP)] added in 1979. There are
also tertiary treatment ponds and chlorination facilities, although these are not
operational. In addition, problems are being experienced with some of the equipment.
2.21  Treated wastewater flows from the main treatment plant are discharged to the
Tuul River south of UB's developed area. Although still satisfactory, there has been a
noticeable downward trend in effluent quality. The plant experiences problems due to the
absence of standby generation; in the event of power failure the entire raw domestic and
industrial wastewater flows are diverted directly to the river. This also occurs when
pump breakdown causes the flow rate to exceed operational pumping capacity. Operation
control is made more difficult by the absence of operating flow meters. There is a need to
rehabilitate most of the electromechanical equipment and the primary system of
degritting and desilting and IDA is assisting the Government to identify appropriate
advice and financial support for those investments.
2.22  Sewer charges in 1997 are Tug 34/'000 liters (Tug 20 1996) for apartment
dwellers and Tug 97/'000 liters (Tug 50 in 1996) for industrial, institutional and other



- 15 -
major generators, at 100 percent of the normative volume charged for water. The charges
are added to customers' water bills issued by USAG on the kantors.
2.23  With the lack of investment over recent years, the sewerage system, like the water
supply system, is deteriorating. In particular, there is an urgent need for rehabilitation of
critical lengths of sewer and key items of equipment, particularly pumps.
D. SOLID WASTE SERVICES
2.24  Solid waste collection and disposal are responsibilities of the Municipality of
Ulaanbaatar (MUB), which devolves collections to its six duureg (Districts) and disposal
to the Ulaanbaatar Waste Disposal Company (NUUTS), a wholly municipal-owned
company. Each duureg has established a General Maintenance Company (GMC)
responsible for refuse collection, street cleaning, park and green area maintenance and
development, and maintenance of public buildings and grounds. The GMCs collect
refuse from ger areas, apartment and public buildings and private and state-controlled
industrial organizations. In ger areas, GMCs make bulk collections from local disposal
areas and some individual lots. There are also many informal tip sites from which GMCs
also collect refuse.
2.25  As for water and sewerage and other utilities, apartment occupants are billed each
month for solid waste services at a per capita rate of Tug 50 per apartment. Ger residents
are supposed to pay a collection fee determined by MUB/duureg, to ger leaders or
nominated collectors. The fees are passed to GMC, often via individual drivers. The
collection rate from the ger is relatively low and results in constantly declining refuse
collection amounts within ger areas.  There can be no improvement unless the
municipality allocates money from its general tax budget, or causes the duuregs and
khoroos to improve the solid waste fee collection. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that MUB will undertake a study to determine appropriate alternatives to
fund ger area refuse collection; by July 1, 1998, submit the study and recommendations
to the Association for comments; and by December 31, 1998, prepare an action plan
acceptable to the Association to implement the agreed recommendations.
2.26 NUUTS operates three disposal areas, all virtually unregulated dumping grounds
with no charges levied for dumping. NUUTS appears to be financed entirely by MUB.
A section within the MUB Construction and Planning Department monitors activities of
the duureg GMCs and works with duureg solid waste inspectors. It also can advise on
new collection methods and ensure that new developments are included in collection
schedules. This section also helps to clean up materials around new buildings.



- 16-
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. MUNICIPALITY OF ULAANBAATAR
3.1   The proposed project would be implemented by the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
(MUB). The current Mayor of Ulaanbaatar and his City Council took office in
September 1996, and moved quickly to reorganize the city administration and to
introduce pricing reforms. One aim of the reorganization was to centralize in the
Department of Strategic Planning responsibilities for urban services, formerly dispersed
among four separate departments. This centralization would facilitate implementation of
investments and programs to improve urban services in  accordance with the
Government's sector strategy as well as the Municipality's own four-year development
plan 1997-2000. Chart 1 shows the new municipal structure.
3.2   Of the four departments directly under the Mayor, the Department of Strategic
Planning and the Department under the General Manager are directly relevant to the
operations of municipal services. The General Manager's Department oversees activities
of all utilities under the Municipality, whether autonomous or separate departments with
their own budget. The General Manager monitors (a) USAG, which delivers water
supply and sewerage services; (b) Ulaanbaatar Housing and Communal Services
Company (OSNAAK) and its affiliate kantors, responsible for the housing sector and
maintenance activities; (c) six general maintenance companies responsible for solid
wastes collection in each duureg and NUUTS, the waste disposal company (para. 2.24);
and (d) bus companies. The Department of Strategic Planning controls four offices and
one Bureau: the Construction and Planning Office, in charge of infrastructure and
building designs; the Building and Investment Office, for large development projects; the
Land Office for definition of land use, and land allocation; and the Finance Bureau,
involved in of tariff revision. The municipal organization also includes representatives of
the six municipal districts (duureg), each encompassing both the apartments in the central
city and ger areas on the perimeter. Various services fall within the responsibilities of the
Municipality and the districts (see below). The duuregs are divided into khoroos, the
smallest administrative unit of the city government, headed by elected leaders. Since the
khoroo leaders are usually personally acquainted with most people living in their area,
they make excellent community contact points for local consultation and participation.
3.3   The Municipality formerly obtained most of its revenue from the operation of
companies and utilities under its control.  With the gradual loss of state-owned
enterprises, the corporatization of utilities and the withdrawal of subsidies and cost-free
projects following the fall of the Soviet Union, it now has little revenue to spend on
capital investments, either to renovate deteriorating infrastructure or to construct new
infrastructure to support city growth or to service the expanding ger areas. All land is



- 17-
currently owned by the Government, although arrangements are being made to privatize
ownership of individual apartments and to give long-term leases to registered ger plot-
holders. The prices of housing and the leases and whether they will form the basis of a
property tax have still to be decided by MUB.
3.4   Broad policies on land ownership and borrowing levels for the Municipality and
its Corporations are controlled by the Central Government and the Ministers of Finance
and Economic Development.  Within these constraints, the Municipality has a
considerable degree of autonomy for planning, provision and management of services.
3.5   The movement away from command and control in the Municipality's operations
to one where some services are delivered by largely autonomous agencies (e.g.,
electricity), while these remain government-delivered (roads, health and education), is
posing new challenges. These relate to financing municipal government and planning
and coordination of services, including an effective budgeting and financial management
system to ensure implementation of plans. Moreover, the emergence of democratic local
government and the orderly development of ger areas will require much stronger
participation of community and submunicipal (duureg and khoroo) levels of government
in decisions on matters such as zoning and land-use controls, and levels and pricing of
services. The proposed project's infrastructure development activities in five ger areas
would test this participatory approach for use in other areas.
3.6   To prepare itself for the challenges ahead, the Municipality plans to carry out a
study with funding sought from bilateral sources, of UB's long-term urban management
and planning strategy. That study would propose physical, institutional and financial
strategies to guide UB's future development, and to strengthen the capabilities of the
Municipality, city residents and the private sectors to plan and manage the city on an
ongoing basis. The outputs of the study will be: (a) a growth strategy and service plan
for the metropolitan region; (b) an institutional strengthening plan; and (c) a financial
management plan. Also included in the study is preparation of prototype ger area layouts,
including social services, infrastructure and alternative plot sites.  The alternatives
identified would be costed and the affordability to families of a plot development fund
assessed. Even now, UNDP is supporting a sustainable development program for
Mongolia-Agenda 2001, addressing urban planning, development, and environmental
issues. The study is expected to provide a national strategy that is similar to but broader
than the MUB study.
3.7   Study findings should assist the Municipality to continue its pursuit of market-
oriented policy reform. During the past year, MUB's commitment to economic
principles has been illustrated by authorizing long overdue increases in some utility
charges, including the water tariff, to cover operating costs, and formulating plans to
privatize apartments. It now intends to catalyze reforms in the water supply sector by
establishing USAG as a state-owned company under the 1995 Partnership and Company
Law. This and other reforms are changing the Municipality's role from one of direct
control over municipal services to one of policy setting and monitoring, with its policy



- 18 -
goals reflected in the strategic plans of the corporatized municipal services and in
provision of annual performance agreements concluded with the managers of those
services. Various funding agencies outside the scope of this project have expressed
interest in assisting the Municipality to implement the findings of the urban planning
study and to assist MUB in making the transition from direct provision of services to
oversight.
B. AGENCIES INVOLVED IN THE MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
3.8   The Municipality provides water supply and sewerage services through USAG,
which produces, treats and distributes water and collects and treats sewage. USAG
directly services government buildings, schools, hospitals, commercial premises and
some industries. However, domestic consumers receive USAG water through two other
organizations. A government-owned housing company, OSNAAK, and its affiliated
kantors (financially autonomous Housing and Communal Services Units) distribute water
to apartments, while TANK, a water tanker organization, services the ger areas. USAG is
fully owned by MUB as are OSNAAK, the kantors and TANK.
USAG
3.9   Powers and Authority. USAG was established and registered as a separate
company under the 1991 Economic Entities Law. USAG operates and maintains the
wells, pumps, primary distribution and reservoirs in the water supply system as well as
the pipes and treatment plant in the sewerage system (see Chart 2 for its organizational
structure). Secondary networks and service to the apartments is not under its jurisdiction.
System planning and capital investments, coverage of operational losses (if any) and
setting of tariffs and charges are all the responsibility of MUB. Although USAG
maintains separate accounts, as if it were a separate, autonomous, municipally-owned
company, and claims freedom to set its own wages and salaries, USAG operates narrowly
as if it were MUB's water supply and sewerage operations and maintenance department.
USAG's lack of autonomy over its operations has provided it with little incentive to take
responsibility for system operations, strategic planning and financial performance.
Consequently, USAG's analysis of existing and proposed water consumption and tariff
revenue is sketchy, particularly for industries and institutions. There is little technical
analysis of the water network to determine its capacity, shortcomings and efficiency.
And USAG seems to have little involvement in dealing with the related issues of system
water loss, the charging methods, tariff structure and revenue. An institutional study
carried out during project preparation indicated that USAG needed greater status and a
strengthened organization to become more efficient. The Municipality has concurred
with the recommendations of the study. To strengthen its accountability and encourage
performance improvements, USAG would be corporatized so that it may develop into a
somewhat more autonomous public utility with a clear mandate and legal status.
3.10  Staffing and Organizational Structure. USAG has a staff of 1,074 (including
442 in TANK). Using the traditional indicator of a water supply entity's efficiency, i.e.,



- 19 -
staff per system length, USAG appears to be overstaffed, with 1.66 persons per km of
network operated compared to the 0.45 staff per km typical of an efficient organization.
USAG is headed by a Director, under whom are a Chief Engineer responsible for all
system operation, and Heads of Departments for Material Supply, Planning and Finance,
Personnel and Consumers. Also part of USAG, but in fact operating almost separately
from it, is TANK. USAG's flat organizational structure indicates that decision-making is
centralized in its Director. With corporatization, the Director will be required to assume
more responsibilities for a more independent organization, and he will need to rely on a
strong management team  with which decision-making can be shared.  USAG's
restructuring into a more pyramidal organization is therefore recommended. Any
restructuring should also include the separation of USAG's now combined water and
sewerage operations, so that USAG can identify the costs and efficiency of each service
and the adequacy of tariffs for that service.
3.11  Maintenance.  Due to the insufficient tariff increases authorized by the
Municipality in the past, USAG has lacked adequate revenue to carry out system
maintenance. It currently has no regular maintenance procedures, and maintenance is
usually performed only when absolutely necessary. Now, with the revenues expected
from a substantial tariff increase in October 1996, funds should become available for a
much stepped-up maintenance program. Technical Assistance for developing adequate
maintenance purchase programs and procedures is included under the Project. During
negotiations, assurance was obtained that USAG will establish and operate a separate
maintenance account to provide an adequate level of maintenance and repair for its
facilities, and increase expenditures on maintenance in real terms starting in the fiscal
year beginning January 1, 1998, at IO percent in real terms, during the project period
3.12  Billing. About 1,060 institutional consumers, including industries, are billed
directly by USAG, which either reads meters, where they are installed and functioning,
or, for industrial consumers, bills them according to detailed consumption norms
determined by the type of organization and activity. While the current norms for
industrial users may closely reflect actual consumption, the system suffers from an
inherent lack of incentives to conserve water and should be replaced by metered billing to
charge actual volume consumed.
3.13  The introduction of metered billing is even more of a priority for apartment units.
The average norm of 150 lcd for billing to apartment dwellers is far below the actual
amount supplied, which surveys indicate is around 410 lcd. The bulk of the water over
the norm is simply wasted through leaking toilets and taps. The economic and financial
loss from this wastage is unsustainably high and should be stopped by an incentive
system to encourage conservation combined with repair of poorly functioning facilities
(see Annex 4). In addition to the installation of water meters at each apartment core,
replacement or installation of meters on USAG's own customers is included under the
project.



- 20 -
3.14  Financial Performance.   As discussed further in Chapter 5, despite
hyperinflation of about 5,700 percent overall in 1991-95, USAG was able to contain its
losses to 3 percent of total revenue in 1994 and to realize a small profit in 1995 by a
combination of tariff adjustments and reduction of operations in real terms. This
financial achievement masked serious problems in that USAG avoided major losses in
part by capping wages and almost totally neglecting system maintenance and investment.
The latter has sharply reduced the economic life of most assets, and rehabilitation of
facilities is now badly needed. In addition to the installation of water meters at each
apartment core, replacement or installation of meters on USAG's own customers is
included under the Project.
3.15  Effective in October 1996, USAG raised its water tariff to apartment dwellers by a
weighted average of 83 percent. This base tariff level, adjusted in the future for inflation,
would be adequate for USAG's operations in the medium term, until it needs to service
debt on the proposed credit or other future loans. Even with the increase, USAG's unit
charge to relatively poor ger area residents in 1997 is regressive by being about 12 times
higher than the unit charge to better-off apartment dwellers. The high charge also
prevents ger dwellers from consuming the minimum level of water required for health
and hygiene. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the gap between tariffs
to apartment and ger area residents will be phased out so that all consumers will pay the
same tariff when the piped water supply becomes available to ger area residents.
TANK
3.16 The TANK "Company" is a separate suborganization within USAG. It is
responsible for distributing water to ger areas, for which purpose it owns a fleet of 49
tanker trucks (mostly 5,000-liter capacity, only about 30 operational), tanker filling
stations and 262 sales kiosks. TANK has 442 staff. Kiosk attendants employed by
TANK dispense water in exchange for tokens TANK sells to consumers, charging Tug 8
per 20 liters. TANK, like USAG, is treated for accounting purposes as a separate entity,
but it functions only as a water supply and maintenance operation, with a quasi-
independent identity in relation to USAG. With respect to tariffs, investment and
operational policy, and sources of investment funds, it is wholly under MUB's direction.
TANK is not a separate income and expenditure center within USAG as it does not
purchase, or meter the water that it obtains from USAG for distribution to ger consumers.
3.17 USAG has insufficient control over TANK, which functions as a partly separate
organization within USAG. Due to its unsustainably high operating costs, TANK has
been losing money despite the very high tariff to ger residents and free water supply from
USAG. USAG has covered these losses, with the result that TANK is its second largest
item of expenditure after electricity, which accounts for over 70 percent of operating
costs. TANK's unit operating cost for water in 1996 constant terms is Tug 535/mr,
compared with Tug 33/m3 for the piped water system. The current arrangement also
appears open to waste and abuse as an analysis suggests that water supply through tank
operation seems underreported by half. Business hours at water kiosks are irregular and



- 21 -
need to be regulated. The analysis of TANK's operations (Annex 12) shows that
replacing the tankered water supply with a piped supply, as would be done under the
proposed project, can significantly reduce USAG's operating costs while more than
doubling ger area resident's water supply to 20 lcd. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the TANK activities will become integrated with those of USA G by the
time of completion of USAG's establishment as a corporation under Mongolia's 1995
Partnership and Company Law and no later than December 31, 1997. With this, TANK
staff would come under the control of appropriate USAG departments.
OSNAAKIKantors
3.18 Some 750 municipally-owned apartment buildings are managed by OSNAAK, a
wholly municipally-owned housing holding "Company." OSNAAK functions through
18 kantors, which actually operate and maintain the buildings and collects rents, provide
service connections for water and electricity, and collect utility user-charges that they
remit to the appropriate agency after retaining a service charge. OSNAAK and the
kantors are barely able to generate sufficient income to maintain the current apartments,
let alone to construct new units. Each kantor is responsible for an area of the city and
functions essentially as a housing management company for that area. Though in theory
OSNAAK and the kantors are financially independent, self-sustaining business
enterprises, they lack autonomy, and all major decisions affecting their operation, like the
determination of rents, capital investment, etc., are made by MUB. OSNAAK's total
manpower of around 60 consists essentially of advisers and supervisors monitoring the
kantors; the kantors have their staffing numbers established according to the number of
apartments they serve. The kantors are capable of carrying out plumbing repairs and
water meter installation under the proposed project.
3.19  The kantor housing estates receive USAG piped cold water and-via CTPs-hot
water for apartments and institutional premises. Prior to January 1997, MUB allowed the
kantors to collect USAG and other utility charges from apartments and institutions. For
collecting the water charges, the kantors retained about 25 percent of gross revenues. The
high percentage retained was apparently an indirect means of enhancing kantor revenues
to cover rising costs of operating and maintaining the (deteriorating) housing units and
their utilities in the absence of adequate increases in highly subsidized rents. However, as
decided by MUB, beginning January 1997, USAG receives all revenue collected by the
kantors as water and sewer charges, and the kantors can charge tenants an additional 20
percent of the USAG water and sewerage charge as a similar fee. The present system of
the kantors collecting apartments on behalf of USAG remains a satisfactory interim
solution, until USAG develops its own capacity and installs an adequate billing system.
C. SECTOR IMPROVEMENT ACTION PLAN
Municipal Objectives For the Sector
3.20 Both the Central Government and MUB agree on the need to renew and improve
urban services in the capital. For solid wastes, MUB believes that cost recovery is the



- 22 -
most appropriate form if ensuring revenues to cover operations, but wishes to review
principals and method of settling a collection fee. For water and sanitation, MUB seeks
to correct the most pressing problems and to introduce commercial principles in USAG,
thus extending to this sector the reforms being introduced in the city bus company and,
more boldly, in other areas of the economy. The Municipality has three major sectoral
goals. Regarding pricing and cost recovery, it intends to replace the current normative
system of charging with a quantitative system based on metered volumes and to fully
recover by user charges USAG's operating costs and the larger of its depreciation or debt
service costs. With respect to institutional strengthening, MUB supports the conversion
of USAG into a publicly-owned limited liability company with the attributes of a
commercial, self-supporting, revenue-earning firm, displaying operating and financial
efficiency. And on equity considerations, MUB seeks to equalize unit charges to ger and
apartment residents, at least for basic levels of water service.
Sector and USAG Action Plans
3.21  These objectives have been incorporated into Action Plans, one for USAG and
one for other sector issues and agencies. The Plans, adopted by the Municipality for
implementation over the next five years, and by USAG for its own jurisdiction. were
discussed and agreed at negotiations and incorporated in the Minutes of Negotiations.
3.22  The main elements of the Sector Improvement Action Plan are outlined in Annex
5a. Assurances were obtained that MUB would implement or cause USAG to implement
the Action Plans that could be amended by mutual agreement of the Government and IDA
during supervision missions.
3.23  The Institutional Development Plan for USAG's internal reorganization is shown
in Annex 5b. USAG was unable to corporatize under Mongolia's Partnership and
Company Law since it had not complied with two requirements of the Law:
establishment of a governing and an auditing board and submission of Articles of
Association consistent with principles of the Law. USAG has now taken action in these
areas, and is expected to have full legal status as a company by July 1, 1997. USAG
would thereafter gain autonomy in most aspects of its operations, with the exception of
tariff setting, which would remain under municipal control. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, USAG will be established under Mongolia's 1995 Partnership and
Company Law, on the basis of a charter acceptable to the Association.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that MUB would cause USAG to implement an
Institutional Development Plan and submit revisions to the Plan to the Association for its
prior approval, as the need arises during project implementation.
3.24  During the project period, USAG would be restructured to enhance efficiency and
cater for its enlarged duties as a result of project activities. Restructuring would be
carried out gradually, in three phases. The first phase would separate USAG's water
supply and wastewater activities, integrate TANK staff into appropriate USAG
departments and have USAG assume TANK's responsibility for collecting water charges



- 23 -
for ger area services. During the second phase, USAG would establish new departments
to handle the new services it would provide, e.g., metering, and would strengthen
departnents with expanded responsibilities, such as the Customer Services Department,
to be responsible for meter reading, billing and collection, and the Water Supply
Maintenance Department, to deal with the ger area water pipelines and to undertake an
expanded maintenance program for the existing network. The final phase of USAG's
action plan, at project completion and thereafter, would cater for further emerging needs,
e.g., assuming responsibility for investment planning and execution should these
functions be delegated to USAG by the municipality. Technical assistance and training
to facilitate USAG's development would be provided under the proposed project.



- 24 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES
4.1   Project Formulation.  In mid-1994, the Government's concern about the
condition of Mongolia's cities, which had begun to show the effects of several years of
forced neglect, caused it to request the Association's assistance in carrying out an
informal review of urban services in Mongolia's main cities. In particular, urban issues
were assessed from the perspective of two government goals: poverty alleviation and
devolution of functions and responsibilities to local governments.
4.2   The subsequent discussion of suggestions and proposals arising from the review
clarified priorities and prompted the Government to seek further Association help in
resolving two urgent issues facing Ulaanbaatar-the deterioration of its water supply and
distribution system and the dearth of public services in ger areas. A Phase I feasibility
study was subsequently prepared with financing provided by Japan's Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (PHRD), followed by Phase II preparation of detailed
designs under Australian AusAID funding. Throughout each phase a Steering Committee
composed of representatives of various ministries assisted and guided the consultants and
organized the participation of local area leaders in the selection and design of
components. At a full review of the proposal in October 1996, the Municipality of
Ulaanbaatar endorsed the project scope and confirmed its contribution to the project's
financing plan.
4.3   Overall Project Objectives. The project's general objectives are to assist the
Government to: (a) address the inequity of services between ger and formal housing
areas, thereby improving the quality of life of the low-income population; (b) restore
levels and quality of water supply services in the Municipality and make that supply
accessible to the ger areas; and (c) develop more efficient and autonomous, performance-
oriented institutions, with a view to eventual privatization. Project activities in UB are
intended to demonstrate to Mongolia's other large cities the modalities and benefits of
urban renewal in the expectation that they will replicate these initiatives themselves the
future.
4.4   Detailed Project Objectives. The project's specific objectives are to:
(a)   Improve the quality, quantity and reliability of water supply for about 70
percent of the population in predominantly low-income ger areas, where
about half of UB's population resides;



- 25 -
(b)   Substantially lower the unit cost of water supply to ger areas by replacing
tankered with piped water and thereby bring the unit price for water
charged to the ger in line with that paid by apartment dwellers;
(c)   Improve ger area infrastructure, including roads, bridges, footpaths and
storm drainage, and enhance ger access to water supply and sanitation;
(d)   Arrest the deterioration in, and improve the reliability and quality of, the
city water distribution system while adapting it for distribution of piped
water to ger areas;
(e)   Reduce water wastage, the production of nonrevenue-producing water, and
water production costs;
(f)   Replace the current norm-based water and sanitation billing system to one
that is quantity-based; and
(g)   Develop USAG's capabilities for financial and operational management
and convert it into a self-financing commercially-oriented public utility.
B. PROJECT IMPACT INDICATORS
4.5   Project implementation progress and development impact would be monitored by
a set of key indicators showing the delivery of inputs and realization of expected outputs.
The following indicators, shown in detail in Annex 3, would complement operational and
financial performance targets in the project's implementation, procurement and
disbursement schedules and project conditionality.
(a)   Poverty Alleviation
* Number and percentage of water kiosks served by a piped supply
versus targets
*  Ratio of the unit price of water to ger areas and to apartments to
become one by end of project period
*  Number of ger plots with access to footpathlroad within 50 meters
*  Per capita ger consumption of water
*  Growth of Ger Infrastructure Account
(b)   Efficiency Enhancement
* Decline in per capita water consumption in apartment buildings
* Amount of water delivered by truck



- 26 -
* Ratio of population served by USAG water supply to total number of
USAG staff
(c)   Capacity Building
* Water meters installed under the project
* Actual vs. planned budget expenditures for system maintenance
* Ratio of USAG's operating revenue to expenditures
(d)   Implementation Progress
* Actual disbursement compared to targets
* Planned vs. actual bid documents prepared by each December and
awarded by next April, to meet construction season requirements.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.6   The proposed project would include a physical investment program and an
institutional development component as outlined below and described in detail in Anne
2.
(a)   Physical Investments:
(i)   Strengthening  the  water supply  distribution  network  by
constructing about 32 km of transmission mains (300/500 mm
diameter) for the existing system and extending the system by
about 12 km with connection mains serving four ger areas;
(ii)    Constructing four concrete reservoirs to store water intended for
ger areas at Hailast, Baiyankoshuu, Yarmag and Shar Khad;
(iii)   Supplying and laying about 98 km of specially insulated PVC
pipelines to service most public water kiosks in about 12 ger areas;
(iv)   Implementing a water leakage and wastage reduction program
through: (a) the supply and installation of about 22,000 building
water meters to monitor and record building core consumption of
hot and cold water; and (b) repair of building and apartment
plumbing fixtures;
(v)    Supplying equipment and tools for maintenance and meter repair
workshops;



- 27 -
(vi)   Providing sewer observation and cleaning equipment to assess,
clear blockages to, and clean sewers, that have been damaged
during flooding and freezing periods; and
(vii)    Undertaking a Ger Area Infrastructure Upgrading Program in five
ger areas, entailing construction of limited roadwork, cutoff drains,
footpaths, additional water kiosks, repair of existing kiosks and
community bathrooms and laundries, and provision of garbage
bins.
(b)   Institutional Component:
(i)    Technical assistance in project management during the first two
years of project implementation; and in community awareness and
education of ger area residents;
(ii)   Institutional strengthening of USAG, the UB water utility, through
technical assistance and training in financial management,
technical areas, and development of maintenance programs for
water and wastewater systems;
(iii)    Studies reviewing the long-term development and planning of ger
areas in Ulaanbaatar, and definition of appropriate levels of public
services; and
(iv)    Development of, and training in, a computerized USAG billing and
collection system for metered supplies.
Water Supply Investments
4.7   The proposed water supply investments would address three aspects of USAG's
operations by: (a) improving and removing bottlenecks in the primary distribution
network; (b) constructing additional distribution facilities to improve service in ger areas
and to reduce the access cost to users; and (c) implementation of a water wastage
reduction plan in apartment areas, aimed at bringing overall consumption figures in line
with more typical levels through control by metering and replacement of leaking
plumbing fixtures.
4.8   Distribution Network. To improve service to the city's higher-demand areas,
now receiving inadequate and or intermittent flows and pressure, the proposed project
would make the now underutilized reservoir system fully operational to raise pressure
head, and the primary transmission main system around Ulaanbaatar would be reinforced
to accommodate larger flows at higher pressures. These improvements would raise
service quality without additional, and expensive, pumping. The project would complete
the southern section of the main distribution loop around the city area to help maintain
the water pressure and push flows toward the underserved western part of the city (Map



- 28 -
IBRD 28690). This would mainly entail: (a) supplying and laying pipelines for the
southern transmission main (3 km of 300 mm dia.); (b) constructing links between four
existing reservoirs (18 km of 500/400/300 mm dia.) and the southern links for the city
network main (11 km of 400 mm dia.); (c) rehabilitating and commissioning the
Northeast and "X" reservoirs, coupled with installation of a telemetry system to optimize
reservoir use; (d) repair and replacement of existing valves and installation of regulating
valves to increase pressures on secondary networks presently ill-served; and (e) provision
of equipment and spares for a workshop and laboratory.
4.9   Provision of Piped Water Supply to Ger Areas. Construction of additional
distribution facilities to improve the ger areas and reduce the cost of water to local
inhabitants would require development of reservoirs and networks to serve 12 priority ger
areas in the northeast, northwest and southwest fringes of the city's formally built-up
areas. About 70 percent of the population in the 12 areas (169,000 people) would be
supplied with piped water. These areas are projected to have a total population of
210,000 people by 2010. Six of the 12 areas were considered unsuitable for project
investment due to permafrost encroachment. The project would provide: (a) installation
of about 93 km of specially insulated pipes as the primary water supply distribution
network in ger areas, with risers to the public water kiosks serving the population;
(b) supply and laying of two transmission pipelines (9.4 km of 300/500 mm dia. and
2.7 km of 500 mm dia.) linking the ger distribution system to the existing city network;
(c) construction of four semiburied reservoirs at Hailast, Yarmag, Baiyankoshuu and Shar
Had, totaling 2,500 m3 capacity; (d) drilling of three boreholes at Yarmag Shar Khad and
Baiyankoshuu for the supply of areas that are better economically served through
independent groundwater supply; and (e) construction of 25 new water kiosks and
rehabilitation of 1 10 old ones serving the 12 ger areas.
4.10 Water Wastage Reduction Program. In support of the program, the project
would provide: (a) supply and installation of about 22,000 cold and hot water meters for
apartment building cores; (b) supply of fixtures and piping for apartments and building
interiors; and (c) provision of meter testing and repair facilities. Since water delivery to
apartment buildings has a complicated configuration owing to the involvement of CTPs,
metering of individual apartments would be costly and at this stage is considered
unnecessary. The project would therefore install meters at the entry of each apartment
block to measure amounts of water used by a group of tenants. The block metering
would thus provide an incentive for all tenants to both reduce water usage and proceed
with repair of broken plumbing fixtures. The water meters would be supplied and owned
by USAG, but installed by the kantors. Equipment needed to repair plumbing fixtures
would be provided to tenants as an additional cost or a loan, at a discounted rate. Kantor
staff would carry out the repairs. Details of the water metering program is described in
Annex 4.



- 29 -
Emergency Sewerage System Repairs
4.11   The project includes a minimal amount of financing for purchase of equipment
needed to investigate and assess the condition of sewers, to clear blockages and to clean
sewers, such as high-pressure jetting and descaling machines. Repairs of servers and
manholes damaged by flood events and street traffic would be undertaken under the
maintenance program.
Ger Area Infrastructure Upgrading Program
4.12  Investments. Infrastructure improvements would be piloted in five priority ger
areas, with the expectation that similar works would subsequently be carried out in the
other ger areas (see Map IBRD 28690). In response to priorities expressed by ger
residents and with a view to affordability, the project would provide: (a) construction of
28.1 km of 1.2 m wide footpaths, 10.8 km of paved or gravel roads and three footbridges
and one road bridge giving residents better access from their plots to public facilities
(water kiosks, bus stops, schools); (b) construction of about 2.6 km of concrete-sided and
bottom drains and 2.2 km of levees, to ensure protection of ger from storms;
(c) manufacture and installation of about 650 three-cubic meter capacity refuse bins for
collection of solid wastes from ger and supply of several tip trucks and compactor trucks
for subsequent evacuation of refuse; and (d) construction of five laundries and bathhouses
in each of the five targeted areas. The detailed design and implementation in each ger
area would be developed with the active participation of the residents, to establish their
sense of ownership of the improvements and their commitment to future maintenance and
cost recovery. Details of the program are discussed in Annex 15.
4.13  The project infrastructure improvements will be made in five ger areas-Gandan,
Hailast, Dambadarjaa, Chingeltei and Denjin-which have been identified as having the
highest priority among the 12 ger areas found suitable for improvement. To establish
priorities for project improvements, the ger areas were ranked according to the following
criteria:
. health conditions and access to health services (e.g., socioeconomic
conditions)
*  population and population density
*  availability of services
*  logistical conditions for services' (e.g., ground conditions, permafrost, slope,
erosion and access, building relocation or property acquisition requirements,
which were given 50 percent weight in the analysis)
*  town planning and future city development requirements



- 30 -
community willingness to participate in identification of priority investments
and to pay ger improvement charges for them.
4.14  About 75,000 people or 16,800 households reside in the five ger areas targeted for
infrastructure upgrading under the project. These areas would also benefit from the
project's provision of a piped water supply to the 12 priority ger areas. Due to resource
constraints, only about 45 percent of the population in the 12 ger areas suitable for
improvement could be included in the infrastructure upgrading program; and only a
minimum of essential improvements can be made in these areas. A substantial amount of
improvement work remains to be done in the future when more resources can be made
available. Agreements were obtained at negotiations that MUB would carry out a Ger
Infrastructure Improvement Program acceptable to the Association and would submit
any revision to such a program to the Association for its prior approval.
4.15  Planning Study. As an initial step in the process of improving the city's land use
management and integrating ger areas into the overall urban development plan, a study
would be carried out for the medium-term development and planning of ger areas in UB,
including definition of appropriate levels of public services. The study would also
consider the implications for ger planning of the city's recent land tenure proposals,
which would seem to grant ger residents user rights over their plots for a specific, fixed
period, which remains to be determined. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
MUB would carry out a study regarding medium-term development and planning of ger
areas, including appropriate levels of public investment, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, by December 31, 1998 and take the recommendations
arisingfrom the study into account in its urban development planning.
4.16  Infrastructure Changes. About 50 percent of the proposed ger investments-
including small roads and culverts, footpaths, grading, and solid waste bins-would be
subject to an on-site infrastructure charge, to permit cost recovery and sustainability of
the improvement program. The charge, to be about $75 equivalent per plot, would be
partly paid over time by the beneficiaries. An affordable charge of Tug 500/plot/month
($0.68/month), equivalent to about 1 percent of average 1996 ger household income,
would pay off major ger on-site costs in eight years (Annex 15). The charges would be
deposited in a separate account for ger improvement, which would be maintained by
MUB and collected by the khoroos.  The fee would have several benefits by:
(a) allowing the repayments to be used for further improvements to or maintenance in ger
area and to strengthen local community organizations; (b) financing MUB's
improvements in new ger areas accounting; (c) encouraging the residents' commitment to
the project improvements through an affordable charge; and (d) attracting additional
funding from external agencies. Subsequent area improvements would be prioritized and
undertaken according to the criteria mentioned in para. 4.13.



- 31 -
Institutional Development
4.17  The project would finance technical assistance in project management during the
first two years of implementation; support to USAG; and community awareness and
education of ger area residents. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
MUB would recruit consultants for the project with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.  Recruitment of consultants for project management would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
4.18  While the Mongolian construction industry has a reasonable experience in
constructing physical works, the Municipal Construction Planning Department has very
limited experience in managing Bank Group projects. Technical assistance would
therefore be provided under the project to assist local staff to gain skills and experience
with project management issues, particularly procurement, disbursement and monitoring.
Specialists to be recruited would include a project management advisor, a cold-climate
construction advisor, a water supply construction advisor, and a water supply
communications/control system advisor. The consultant team would work with an MUB
counterpart team over the course of their contract. Terms of reference for these and other
consultants to be engaged for the project are given in Annex 6.
4.19  During the project period, USAG would reorganize itself and carry out a program
of institutional strengthening to allow it to function as a commercially-oriented water
supply and sewerage utility, with responsibilities for investment planning and execution,
and financial control. A USAG Institutional Development Action Plan, developed by
USAG and its consultants, is shown in Annex 5. The proposed project would finance
technical assistance and training to help USAG implement the Plan, with expertise to be
provided in financial management, technical areas, and development of maintenance
programs for water and wastewater systems.  Development of and training in a
computerized USAG billing and collection system for metered supplies would also be
financed.
4.20  The Ger Area Infrastructure Improvement Program is intended to demonstrate the
benefits of the proposed investments to other ger areas. Its success will depend on
community commitment to and participation in the works to be carried out. To sustain
the local participation shown during project preparation, it is proposed to engage a local
nongovernmental organization, Women for Social Progress, to stimulate community
awareness of the project's aims, mobilize and organize community involvement in
carrying out construction activities, and organize community awareness of public health
and project issues.
D. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
4.21  The Project Preparation Office and key project staff are receiving assistance from
consultants involved in the Phase II preparation; study and designs have been completed
for all physical works to be carried out during the first year of project implementation.
To avoid losing one construction season (May-November 1997), bid documentation is



- 32 -
now finalized to ensure readiness of bidding documents by June 1997. Also, an extensive
canvassing to determine precise requirements for the water meter installation and fixture
repair programs is under way with the kantors' input, and should yield information for
defining equipment and work requirements. A first canvassing of interested contractors
and suppliers has taken place through national public notification as well as circulation of
the notice for the first year's works to commercial sections of all represented embassies in
Ulaanbaatar of IDA member countries. The Municipality is eager to proceed with early
implementation of physical works and has earmarked Tug 100 million ($140,000) to start
contracts with advance payment from the Municipality and subsequent reimbursement
from the Credit and the Grant.
E. COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Cost
4.22  The estimated cost of the proposed project is $23.6 million, including import
duties and sales taxes, and physical and price contingencies. All cost and financing
estimates, including local costs, have been calculated in US dollars, due to high and
unpredictable domestic inflation. Cost estimates are based on engineering designs and on
unit prices prevailing in 1997. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent for all
goods and civil works, and 5 percent for technical assistance. Price escalation is based on
a projected international inflation rate of 2.5 percent per year for 1997 and thereafter.
Cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 below, and detailed costs are provided in
Annex.
TABLE 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Local     Foreign      Total    % Foreign
City Water Supply
City System                    1,389      2,756       4,145        65
Ger Area Distribution          1,738      3,372       5,100        67
Wastage Reduction               274       2,466       2,740        90
Subtotal                    3,401      8,594      11,995        71
Ger Area Upgrading             1,274      2,110       3,384        62
Sewerage                         18          99        117         85
Technical Assistance            726       1,471       2,197        67
Total Base Costs            5,419      12,274     17,693        69
Import Duties/Sales             810           0        810          0
Physical Contingencies          457       1,018       1,475        69
Price Contingencies            1,135      2,523       3,658        27
Total Project Cost          7,821      15,815     23,636        62



- 33 -
Project Financing
4.23  The financing plan is shown in Table 4.2. Total financing required is $23.6
million of which, $14.8 million, or 67 percent, constitutes the direct foreign exchange
component. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.3 million ($16.7 million equivalent)
represents 100 percent of the project's foreign exchange component and 71 percent of the
total project cost. The IDA credit would finance the project's water supply and sewerage
components and related technical assistance. An Australian Government AusAID grant
of $4.9 million equivalent would finance 100 percent of the ger area infrastructure
upgrading works and related technical assistance. MUB would finance $2.0 million
equivalent, or 8 percent of total costs. The AusAID grant would be managed by IDA
under the Global Trust Fund Agreement between the Bank Group and the Government of
Australia.
TABLE 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ Million)
Sources                       Local      Foreign      Total     Percentage
UB Municipality                2.0         0.0          2.0         8
IDA                            4.0         12.7        16.7        71
AusAID                          1.8        3.1          4.9        21
Total                        7.8        15.8        23.6       100
4.24 IDA funds would be made available to the Government of Mongolia at standard
IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity and a 10-year grace period. The credit proceeds
would be onlent by the Government to MUB under a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and MUB. A further onlending agreement would be made between
MUB and USAG. AusAID funds would be made available to the Government, which
would pass on the funds to MUB under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from the Borrower that: (a) it would onlend the IDA credit to
MUB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at an annual interest rate of I percent and a
repayment period of 40 years including 10 years of grace, (b) MUB would onlend
proceeds of the IDA Credit to USAG under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at an annual
interest rate of 5 percent and a repayment period of 20 years including 5 years of grace,
with MUB bearing the exchange risk. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.25 A Project Agreement would be executed between IDA and MUB.



- 34 -
F. PROCUREMENT
4.26  Project procurement would be in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995" and revised in January
and August 1996.   All international competitive bidding (ICB) documents would
conform to the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Under previous IDA operations in
Mongolia, procurement has been centralized within a unit in the Ministry of Trade and
Industry now transferred to MID, where experience and expertise have been developed to
assist project entities in carrying out procurement in conformity with IDA guidelines.
Procurement under the proposed project would benefit from MID's assistance, as well as
consultant assistance to be provided under the project to MUB and USAG. In the
absence of specific local bidding contracts, the consultants who assisted the Borrower in
preparing the project have helped to prepare satisfactory model civil works documents for
small works in the Mongolian language on the basis of the Bank Sample Bid Documents.
Annex 8 lists the Schedule of Procurement Packages and the method of procurement, and
Table 4.3 summarizes the procurement categories and the expected procurement methods.
TABLE 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
Project Component                  ICB    NCB   Other La NIF Lb   Total
Civil Works
Water Supply Component           3.3     6.6      0.2     1.2    11.4
(3.3)   (6.6)   (0.2)           (10.2)
Ger Upgrading Component          -        -       -       3.0     3.0
Equipment and Materials
Water Supply Component           4.0     0.5      0.3     -       4.8
(4.0)   (0.5)   (0.3)     -      (4.8)
Ger Upgrading Component          -        -       -       1.1      1.1
Technical Assistance & Training
Water Supply Component           1.1     0.4      0.2     -        1.7
(1.1)   (0.4)   (0.2)            (1.7)
Ger Upgrading Component          -        -       -       0.8      0.8
Taxes and Duties                    -       -        -       0.8     0.8
TOTAL                            8.4     7.5      0.7     6.9    23.6
(8.4)   (7.5)   (0.7)   (0.0)  (16.7)
LA Other procurement methods include international and national shopping, direct
contracting, force account, consultants' services, and training.
Lb NIF denotes non-IDA financing.
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA; figures include
contingencies and may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 35 -
4.27  Civil works contracts totaling about $11.4 million would be packaged so that
each contract could be implemented over a period of seven months, April to October,
when construction is possible in Mongolia. Contracts above $0.5 million each would be
procured under ICB. About five ICB contracts, each averaging $0.7 million and totaling
some $3.3 million, are envisioned. Qualified domestic contractors would receive a 7.5
percent preference in bid evaluation on these contracts. Contracts above $0.2 million
each, and expected to total $6.6 million for both the water supply and ger upgrading
components, would be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to the Association, with bidding also open to foreign contractors from
neighboring countries who are likely to tender for these smaller contracts. Nearby
foreign contractors would be allowed to participate in NCB since Mongolia currently has
only about 12 competent local civil works contractors, some of whom occasionally
associate with foreign contractors. Civil works contracts for installation of meters and
plumbing fixture repair amounting to $20,000 each and aggregating to $200,000 would
be carried out under force account or direct contracting with kantors' work forces.
Equipment and materials for the water supply and ger upgrading components would total
about $4.8 million. All contracts above $100,000 would be awarded after ICB. About
four ICB equipment packages, each costing an estimated $1 million, are expected.
Contracts averaging $100,000 each would be awarded following NCB, and are expected
to total $500,000. Contracts of less than $60,000 each for yearly supplies of various
minor equipment, which cannot be economically tendered under ICB/NCB packages,
would be bid through International Shopping in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$300,000. There are no manufacturers of relevant sector equipment in Mongolia, and
domestic preference would not be offered. There would be no prequalification of bidders
for goods or works contracts, but the annual updated procurement notice published in
local newspapers for informing contractors and commercial sections of embassies of each
year's bidding packages will request interested contractors to state their qualifications and
experience for each type of contract. Postqualification would be carried out for each
contract during bid evaluation.
4.28 IDA-financed training and technical assistance services ($1.7 million) would be
procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997. The most appropriate selection
method would be through quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS), which combines the
quality of the proposal with the cost of the services. However, specific assignments
(audit, maintenance system development, PMU strengthening) totaling $450,000 would
be procured through quality-based selection (QBS), least cost selection, single source
selection, and individual consultants.
4.29  All contracts above $100,000 for equipment and civil works would be subject to
prior review. This would cover more than 80 percent of the total value of Association-
financed contracts. All consulting assignments above $50,000 for firms and above
$20,000 for individuals would also be subject to prior review. In addition, post review
would be carried out of one contract in five until the mid-term review in December 1999
and thereafter one contract in ten if earlier reviews have justified such reductions. All



- 36 -
terms of reference for single-source selections would also be subject to IDA's prior
review.
4.30  Early Procurement. The Municipality is about to construct two water supply
transmission mains, expected to cost about $1.2 million equivalent, to improve water
distribution to the city and, more important, to ger areas. While the method of procuring
these works does not fully accord with Bank Group requirements, since procurement was
limited to municipally selected companies, the works are nevertheless considered as part
of the project and their funding by the municipality as part of the Government's
contribution to project financing.
G. DISBURSEMENT
4.31  The proposed IDA Credit of $16.7 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of about five years. Disbursements would be as indicated below:
Category                        Amount          Percentage of Expenditure
($ Million)
IDA Credit
Civil Works                        8.2    90% of total costs
Goods                              3.5    100% of foreign costs (CIF, Mongolian
border); 90% of locally procured items
Consultant Services and Training   2.0   100% of total expenditures
Unallocated                        3.0
Subtotal IDA Credit            16.7
AusAID Grant                       4.9    100% of total expenditures
Total                          21.6
4.32  To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
$0.5 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished quarterly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements for training
and for all contracts not exceeding $20,000 would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOEs), certified by the Director of UB's Strategic Planning Department.
Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by the Project Management Unit and
made available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements
would be made against fully documented expenditures. A Schedule of Disbursements is
given in Annex 9. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001, and
the credit closing date would be June 30, 2002.



- 37 -
H. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.33  The Municipality of Ulaanbaatar would be responsible for implementing the
project. While the Municipality has implemented some relatively large civil works
during the past few years, the proposed project, with its annual work program equivalent
to the city's total annual capital expenditure, would require provision of additional
management support.  This would be financed under the project.  Additional
strengthening in municipal financial management would be provided by bilateral
assistance now being identified.
4.34 To oversee day-to-day aspects of implementation, a Project Management Unit
(PMU) would be established in the Department of Strategic Planning under the Mayor's
Office. The PMU would comprise five professional staff and appropriate support
personnel. Consultants in project management to be provided under the project would
assist the Unit during the first 24 months of implementation, and technical expertise in
the water supply sector would be provided during the project's first two years. As a
condition of effectiveness, MUB will establish the PMU and thereafter maintain it
throughout project implementation, with budget, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
4.35  Implementation of the Ger Area Infrastructure Improvement Program would be
carried out by MUB through its local officials in the neighborhood khoroos. The
planning and design of improvements beyond Year 1 proposals would be the
responsibility of MUB's Architecture and Building Office, which would coordinate with
khoroos for the purpose of community involvement (para. 4.42). The meter installation
and fixture repair programs would be carried out by the kantors' own labor force. Minor
technical assistance would be provided under the meter supply contract to ensure
appropriate installation of meters, and preparation of a satisfactory computerized billing
system, enabling USAG and kantors to start effective monitoring of customer
consumption upon installation of the meters.
4.36  A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared by MUB has been prepared and is
available in the project file (Annexi1). An Implementation Schedule is providing the
detailed procurement plan for the first two project years is included in Annex 1O. As part
of the sector improvement action plan, MUB and USAG agreed during negotiations to
have PMU prepare and submit by each October 15 a procurement plan for the next year.
I. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
4.37  No land acquisition is required for the project. MUB already owns land for the
project reservoirs, and the two transmission mains would be laid in existing streets. The
pipelines serving the ger areas and the infrastructure improvements to those areas would
similarly entail no disruption to the local inhabitants since the ger areas are very well laid
out, with major access ways that will easily accommodate the water pipes, water kiosks,
and other small infrastructure to be provided under the project. No resettlement or
disruption to current economic activities is therefore expected.



- 38 -
J. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
4.38  Environmental Assessment. For purposes of Environmental Assessment (EA),
the proposed project is designated as Category B.  With support from  technical
assistance, MID and the Ministry of Nature and Environment prepared an EA for the
project, which focused on the construction of a small concrete reservoir on a hilltop to
serve the local ger population. The EA concludes that only minor controls are required,
particularly during the construction stage, to ensure that the proposed reservoir is
environmentally sound. The site geology has been investigated by borehole drilling
across the site, the existing environment is already disturbed in terms of vehicles and foot
traffic, and there will be insignificant impact on fauna and flora. The assessment includes
an Environmental Management Plan covering all phases of the development from
preconstruction to operation and maintenance includes mitigation measures for the few
potential impacts identified-noise and dust during construction as well as soil erosion
and silt runoff.   During negotiations, assurances were be obtained that the
Environmental Management Plan would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
4.39  More positively, project activities to reduce water wastage, e.g., construction of a
reservoir and provision of water meters, will maximize the availability of water and allow
service to the ger areas and other additional users within this relatively water-short area.
They will also obviate the need to increase water production in the next five years while
at the same time making more water available to the ger population. The increase of
water consumption of ger residents from 7.5-10 lcd now to 20 lcd by 2010 is unlikely to
cause any waterlogging situation within or around ger plots.  The project would
significantly improve the environment in ger areas by reducing solid waste via its
improved collection and disposal and by reducing flooding and erosion through improved
stormwater drainage. The reduction of wastewater due to the water wastage reduction
program will also help improve the water quality downstream, and thus reduce demands
on the already very limited operational capacity of UB's wastewater treatment plant.
4.40  Cold Climate Considerations.  The project design takes into consideration
Ulaanbaatar's severe winter climate, which is comparable to that of Anchorage, Alaska.
The main potential problem is freezing of water in pipework systems, particularly in ger
areas where low flows can be expected with the low water demand. Frost penetration
could exceed 5.5 meters in the city and 6 to 8 meters in northern exposed ger areas.
However, a cost comparison indicates that it is more economical to insulate pipes and
prevent stagnation than to lay small pipes below the frost penetration line. Specific
design features were therefore adopted for the pipe insulation, pipe material, burial depth
and coverage of pipelines and rises serving kiosks, flow patterns in distribution pipes and
reservoirs, looped connections to water-delivering kiosks, minimization of dead-end
pipes, introduction of special drainage, and control and maintenance features in case of
system failures and need of pipe repairs. Specific investments such as a recirculating ger
looped network and boiler r-calculation near and around reservoirs have been included in
the project. These measures are based on similar systems in operations in Northern
Canada and Alaska and have been found acceptable by a cold climate construction expert.



- 39 -
K. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
4.41   Throughout project preparation process, representatives of the 12 ger communities
included in the project have been consulted on the types of infrastructure upgrading
desired by the local communities and on the Municipality's proposals for meeting these
needs. The community's views were also solicited on a range of issues including site
conditions, drainage problems, pipeline routes and solid waste issues. To provide
information for selecting the project gers, a survey was initiated with the assistance of
community leaders on population incomes and expenditures as well as population
movement in and out of the 12 proposed project areas.
4.42  During implementation, the views of ger area representatives will continue to be
canvassed by the Municipality's local subadministrative agencies (khoroos) who will
participate in community development, and in the collection of ger infrastructure fund
charges. lIt is anticipated that the local community associations formed for project
preparation will be strengthened with the assistance of newly created nongovernmental
organizations, such as Women for Social Progress, which have taken an interest in ger
area activities and wish to facilitate community development and involvement in all
aspects of ger area upgrading. Measures proposed for maximum community participation
would be to:
(a)   identify community interest groups in ger areas such as women,
pensioners, single parents and youth, for the formation of community
councils bringing together district representatives;
(b)   organize meetings of community councils for general acceptance of water
vending kiosk locations, use of solid waste bins and duties of householders
for an efficient solid waste collection, initiation of community
management of facilities such as bathrooms and laundries;
(c)   introduce concepts such as small business cooperatives for such activities
as vegetable growing and ash waste recycling and public laundries; and
(d)   foster the idea that the infrastructure charge would be used for additional
infrastructure improvements and for related maintenance.
4.43  In addition, IDA  supervision  missions during  the first two  years of
implementation will include a sociologist to monitor local reactions to the project and
advise MUB on appropriate participatory approaches to program implementation.
L. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT
4.44  To facilitate various market-oriented reforms, the Government required all public
enterprises, starting in 1996, to adopt a new enterprise accounting system, which is
consistent with internationally accepted accounting standards (IAAS). With financial
technical assistance under the project, USAG will convert to the new accounting system
and procedures to be consistent with IAAS by the end of 1998. The new accounting



- 40 -
system to be introduced will also set up a rigorous cost accounting system to enable
separate accounting of USAG's water supply and sewerage operations. This will increase
the transparency of costs and operations and will facilitate monitoring USAG's financial
performance and the adequacy of tariffs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that USAG will separate its water accounts from its sewerage accounts by December 31,
1998.
4.45  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the project accounts,
including the Special Account and statements of expenditure, as well as USAG 'sfinancial
statements would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA with a separate
opinion on SOEs; and (b) the audit reports would be sent to IDA for review within six
months of the close of each fiscal year. Given the project's TA to upgrade USAG's
accounting procedures and system and to implement an adequate internal control system
in the PMU, as well as the recent government efforts to improve its accounting and
auditing standards with ADB's support. The project will use the local auditing services
to the extent possible. This arrangement will not only reduce the cost of auditing, but
will help ensure that constant principles are applied to the IDA projects. As local
capacity and practices develop, the foreign accounting firm will be replaced by a local
auditor acceptable to the Association.
M. MONITORING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
4.46  The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 10, and project
performance and impact monitoring indicators are given in Annex 3. The format and
content of project progress reports and project impact monitoring indicators and
methodology would be discussed and confirmed during negotiations.   During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that MUB would prepare and furnish to IDA
biannual project implementation progress reports and annual financial reports including
the Special Account and statements of expenditures.
4.47  The Association's supervision of the project would focus on physical and
institutional progress, particularly enterprise restructuring and strengthening, besides
monitoring progress in achieving project objectives. Project supervision would require
about 75 staff-weeks over the life of the project, including 20 staff-weeks at headquarters
to review progress reports, procurement actions and reports and 40 staff-weeks in the
field. More intensive supervision would be required during the first three years of the
project when the technical assistance would be made operational and many procurement
contracts would be tendered, evaluated and awarded. Supervision would be provided by
environmental engineering and financial staff, as well as other specialists, e.g., a
sociologist, as needed.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a mid-
project review report would be submitted to IDA by October 30, 1999. The project
supervision plan is shown in Annex 11.



- 41 -
5. FINANCE
A. MUNICIPAL FINANCE
5.1   With more than 25 percent of Mongolia's total population, Ulaanbaatar had an
operating budget of Tug 23.9 billion in 1995, equivalent to 18 percent of the national
budget of Tug 131.3 billion. During the economic upheavals of the early 1990s, and
particularly in 1992, UB's budget shrank dramatically and, since then, has stabilized in
real terms. The budget is divided into the current budget for operating expenditures and
the capital budget for new investments. UB's operating budget has maintained a surplus
in the 1990s, except for a small deficit in 1995. The capital budget, however, is managed
separately from the operating budget and is financed by a combination of subsidies from
the central budget, municipal budget reserves, and off-budget sources such as a fixed
asset sales fund. UB has no outstanding debts and its nominal revenues have grown in
line with inflation since 1992. The expected introduction of a property tax on the recently
privatized apartments and UB's policy of increasing tariffs for urban services to recover
operating costs will help further consolidate its finances. A detailed description of the
municipality's financial situation and its projection are in Annex 12.
5.2   The proposed IDA Credit would be directly onlent from the Central Government
to USAG. UB, however, made a commitment to provide $1.26 million equivalent in
project counterpart funding, apart from the $0.8 million needed for taxes, and the already
earmarked Tug 100 million in the 1997 budget to carry out construction of two
connecting pipelines under the project. As the project's financial analysis shows that
USAG can generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service, the repayment of the
IDA Credit would not create an additional burden on municipal finance. Furthermore,
with the resumption of economic growth, the commencement of housing privatization
(which could provide a solid basis for charging adequate tariffs for various municipal
services) and the planned introduction of a variety of taxes and fees, the growth of
municipal revenues is likely to accelerate.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from UB that it will provide, directly or through USAG, the necessary
counterpart funds for execution of the project.
5.3   The AusAID  grant of $4.9 million equivalent will be passed on to the
Municipality. The investments supported by AusAID for the next five years amount to
50 percent of MUB's 1996 capital budget and will help relieve the burden on municipal
finance substantially.   Moreover, establishment of the Ger Area Infrastructure
Development Program, with its cost-recovery principle that encourages beneficiaries'
ownership of the facilities provided, and of separate account for the proceeds of the
charge, will help the municipality make sustainable infrastructure investments in the ger
areas.



- 42 -
B. USAG: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TO DATE
5.4   Mongolia has experienced significant hyperinflation since its breakaway from the
FSU in 1991. The price index rose from 100 in 1990 to 5,729 in 1996, with an average
annual inflation rate of 115.6 percent, while its currency was devalued from Tug 40/$1 in
1992 to Tug 695/$1 at the end of 1996. Given the hyperinflation, relatively slow and
less-than-sufficient revaluation of assets, and changes in the geographical scope of its
operation, USAG's historical data have inherent distortions, particularly in the balance
sheet. This analysis therefore summarizes USAG's recent performance, but because past
data should be approached with some caution, the analysis focuses on the future cash
flow and income statement data adjusted in 1996 constant money terms, which will
measure USAG's future cash generating and revenue-earning capacity.
5.5   Shrinking Revenues and Operations. USAG's financial situation in recent
years appears to have been sound based on its profit and loss statement. It has operated
with a cash surplus and small profit since the 1990s, except in 1994, and carries no
outstanding long-term debt. When ongoing hyperinflation pushed it into a small loss
amounting to 3 percent of total revenue in 1994, it increased its tariffs to allow a small
profit in 1995. This performance, which results from the Government's policy to keep
USAG's financial status near a break-even level by adjusting tariffs rather than increasing
efficiency, disguises many serious problems faced by USAG.
5.6   USAG's revenue has been shrinking at 38 percent a year in real terms since 1991
and its cash operating costs are also shrinking at 15 percent a year. This reflects tariff
adjustments that were lower than required to compensate for hyperinflation.  The
cumulative tariff adjustments for industrial users since 1991 were 3,571 percent,
compared to 5,729 percent cumulative inflation for the same period. Faced with the
shrinking revenues, USAG has been scaling down expenditures by forgoing critical
maintenance and rehabilitation investments, rather than improving its efficiency. The
lack of proper maintenance, if allowed to continue, will do irreparable damage to the
water supply infrastructure, which will incur unsustainably heavy costs in the near future.
5.7   USAG's current business practices also have a variety of inherent inefficiencies.
The most significant problem is its practice of charging apartment residents based on an
inadequate norm, which encourages high water wastage and inaction against leakage. In
addition, TANK operations and USAG's billing and collection system need urgent
improvement.
5.8   Billing and Collection. Billing and collection are currently carried out by the
kantors, which used to take a service fee from the collected revenues. Although
consumers diligently pay for water services, the kantors are usually delinquent in turning
over the revenues to USAG due to their own financial difficulties. This problem is
particularly acute in winter when the kantors face large heating and electricity bills. As a
result' USAG's accounts receivable are as high as 16 percent of sales in winter, dropping
to 2 or 3 percent in the summer. The size of the kantors' service fee has been determined



- 43 -
annually by negotiations between USAG and the kantors without an accurate basis to
price the kantors' services. However, the recent service fee level of over 20 percent of
revenues collected seems very high and reduces USAG's potential revenue. It is
recommended that USAG improve the current billing and collection system in the near
future, in conjunction with the planned privatization of kantors.
5.9   TANK  Operations.  Due to unsustainably high operating costs, TANK
operations have been losing money despite its exorbitant tariff charged to ger residents
and free water supply from USAG. TANK's unit operating cost of water in 1996
constant terns is Tug 535/m3, compared with Tug 33/m3 in the central city area.
Analysis of TANK operations shows that replacing most of TANK-delivered water with a
piped supply to the kiosks, as would be done under the project, can significantly reduce
operating costs while more than doubling the water supplied to ger residents to 20 lcd.
As indicated in Chapter 3, to reduce USAG's operating costs, TANK operations and staff
would be phased down as piped water supply is introduced in the project ger areas.
C. USAG: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
5.10  Tariffs. Following a recently introduced 60 percent increase in electricity prices,
which account for over 70 percent of USAG's operating costs, USAG raised its water
tariffs by a weighted average of 83 percent, effective from October 1996. The current
tariff structure is shown in Table 5.1. USAG has also streamlined its relationship with
the kantors by charging them directly and setting a 20 percent cap on the additional
charge kantors can impose on apartment dwellers.
TABLE 5.1: CURRENT TARIFF STRUCTURE
Industry/                Ger       Ger Tank
Tariff/Customer              Institutions  Apartment    Kiosks    Delivery
Previous (A), Tug                50          20         400         600
Revised (B), Tug                 97          34         400         600
Increase Rate (B-A)/A, percent   94          70           0           0
5.11  The introduction of metering under the proposed project will give USAG an
effective demand management tool to discourage water wastage. Following installation
of the project meters, USAG will introduce a "step tariff' by which it would charge a
much higher tariff for water use above a predetermined level (the "cutoff level"). The
cutoff level would be based on actual consumption rates after meter installation as well as
the desired, feasible consumption level. Under the project's sector improvement action
plan, USAG would prepare a program satisfactory to the Association for the introduction
of a step tariff; the program would be reviewed annually in consultation with the
Association during the last quarter of each fiscal year, starting in 1999.



- 44 -
5.12 Financial projections for USAG during 1997-2017 were undertaken based on
assumptions shown in Annex 13. Major assumptions include: the phase-out of the
TANK operation in ger areas, the phase-in of block metering, introduction of a special
maintenance fund, and annual tariff adjustments reflecting input cost increases. Detailed
financial statements are also given in Annex 13 and summarized in Table 5.2.
5.13  The projections indicate that USAG's current tariff, if maintained in real terms,
can generate sufficient operating income to cover all operating and maintenance costs
plus whichever is larger between depreciation and debt service during the project period.
This assumes an adequate pricing mechanism backed up by the installation of block
meters to reduce the uncharged volume of water. In a base case where average
consumption is assumed to fall from the present level of over 300 lcd to around 230 lcd,
the combination of expected cost savings from reduced water wastage and phase-out of
the expensive TANK truck supply could generate enough cash during the project period
to cover debt service on investments in the project's piped water supply to ger kiosks,
while equalizing the basic unit charge for water to ger with the unit charge to apartment
consumers.  These forecasts are based on conservative assumptions, and actual
consumption and future revenues of USAG may well be larger than the base case, barring
major changes in assumptions or consumer behavior. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that beginning in USAG 's fiscal year commencing January 1, 1998, USAG
will take necessary measures, including adjustment of tariffs, to ensure that its annual
operating income will cover operating costs and the amount by which debt service
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. To meet these measures, assurances
were also obtained that beginning in October 1997 and biannually each April and
October thereafter USAG would prepare and submit to its Board and IDA, annual
financial forecasts for the current and following years and the recommended tariff rate
and structure and timing of implementation.
5.14  Performance Indicators. Based on these assumptions, the major financial and
operational performance indicators are summarized in Table 5.2.



- 45 -
TABLE 5.2: BASIC PARAMETERS AND INDICATORS
Actual     Budget                 Forecast
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Basic Parameters
Water Consumption('000 m3)
Institutions                          13,287  14,063  13,552  14,230  14,941  15,688  16,473  17,296
Apartments                            32,003  29,221  32,914  33,572  31,138  28,653  26,517  25,618
Ger area                                 880    848    821    821    963   1,163   1,423   1,702
Unaccounted for Water(UFW)            15,390  14,721  15,782  16,228  15,701  13,861  12,290  11,154
Total Water                     61,561  58,854  63,069  64,851  62,744  59,364  56,703  55,770
% of UFW                          25%    25%    25%    25%    25%    23%    22%    20%
Meter Installation(% metered)
Institutions                            56%    70%    57%    57%    72%    86%   100%   1000/o
Apartments                               0%      0%/0    0%      0%    35%    70%   100%   100%
Consumption Level (lcd)
Apartment                                300    270    300    230    230    230    230    220
Ger area                                 9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    11.6   13.7   15.8   17.9
Piped Supply in Ger (%/6)                 1.8%    2.5%    2.8%    2.8%   16.2%   29.7%   43.1%   56.6%
Collection Rate (%/6)
Institutions                           100%   100%   100%    90%    92%    95%    97%    98%
Apartments                              98%    98%   100%    85%    88%    90%    92%    95%
Ger area (Pipe)                         45%    40%    36%    54%    72%    90%    90%    90%
Financial Indicators(Current Tug Million)
Operating Revenue                       1,278.6 1,620.7 2,199.3 3,542.4 4,542.0 5,820.4 6,732.5 7,647.4
Operating Expenditure                   1,206.5 1,485.9 1,960.9 3,181.7 4,006.7 4,790.6 5,324.5 5,820.5
Net Operating Income                    72.1  134.7  238.4  360.7  535.3 1,029.8 1,408.0 1,826.9
Depreciation                                74      82      72    100    235    412    672    785
Debt Service                                 -       -       -     47    177    399    622    785
Oper. Income> larger (Depr, Debt Serv.)     -2      53    166    260    300    618    736   1,042
Net profit before Tax                     -2      69    234    214    123    219        114    257
Affordability (1996 constant Tug)
Average Water Tariff/person/year           694    990    965   1,335   1,309   1,309   1,257   1,257
Average per capita Income                    - 24,057  31,274  31,587  31,903  32,222  32,544  32,869
Water Bill/Income (%)                           0.43%   0.32%   0.44%   0.43%   0.42%   0.40%   0.40%



- 46 -
6. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. OVERVIEW
6.1   The proposed project, with its focus on ger area upgrading, will help ease the
social burden of structural reform and the country's transition to a market economy by
improving urban services and hygiene in the ger areas. The project would provide piped
water to about 169,000 people or 70 percent of the 12 ger areas supplied. About 75,000
of those beneficiaries would also gain other basic infrastructure under the project. Project
support and service improvements to the existing system would benefit all those now
served with a steadier supply at higher pressure. As the first IDA-supported urban
development project in Mongolia, it also introduces market-oriented provision and
management of urban services by providing an adequate cost recovery mechanism
combined with financial incentives for water conservation and operational efficiency.
Furthermore, an institutional development and reform action plan will reshape UB's
water supply and sanitation utility to function in a market economy in a financially and
environmentally equitable and sustainable manner.
B. EcONOMIc ANALYSIS
6.2   The project comprises three major components: water supply for UB's ger areas,
water supply to the central city area, and ger area upgrading. As each component has a
different type of economic benefit, the analysis is carried out by component. Quantitative
cost-benefit analysis, possible only for the two water supply components, focuses on the
incremental costs and benefits between the "with project" and "without project" cases,
based on the financial analysis. When necessary and appropriate, appropriate proxies and
shadow prices are used to measure economic benefits and costs that differ from financial
benefits and costs. Details of the economic analysis are given in Annex 14.
Ger Area Water Supply
6.3   In the ger areas, the benefits and costs have been quantified to the extent possible.
The major benefit is increased consumption of water to a level of 20 lcd, considered the
minimum requirement for health and hygiene, at a much lower price than before. The
economic benefit to ger residents is measured using the 1995 price of water as a proxy for
consumers' willingness to pay. An additional benefit is derived from the savings in
capital investments and recurrent costs to maintain a larger fleet of trucks and tanks,
owing to the introduction of a piped water supply to cover 70 percent of the ger area
population. This benefit is compared to the initial capital investment to provide water
supply to kiosks under the project. The resulting economic internal rate of return (EIRR)
is 19 percent. It should also be noted that the project's major benefits will accrue to ger
residents whose average income is estimated to be 70 percent of apartment dwellers'



- 47 -
incomes, and who include the urban poor. The additional consumption of potable water
will substantially enhance the level of health and hygiene in ger area, and easier access to
kiosks will also decrease work for ger area women and children who traditionally haul
water home. These qualitative benefits, albeit substantial, are not involved in the
quantitative analysis.
City Water Supply Improvements
6.4   In the central city water supply component, the benefits come from reduced
consumption of valuable resources rather than from incremental benefits or production.
In fact, the supply of water will decrease under the project. The "with project" case
assumes that, with the introduction of block metering and step tariffs, the wastage of
water will substantially decrease, requiring fewer resources to produce the water and
collect, treat and discharge wastewater. The benefits of treating less wastewater and
using fewer resources for water production are all captured as USAG handles both
operations. The resultant EIRR of 14.4 percent, however, understates the real benefits, as
the benefits of a more stable water supply with higher and more evenly distributed water
pressure backed by reserve capacity in reservoirs are difficult to quantify and are
therefore excluded from the analysis. Also omitted from the analysis is the unquantified
benefit of the enhanced efficiency and accountability derived from institutional
strengthening supported by project technical assistance.
6.5   The weighted average EIRR for the water supply component is estimated to be
15.9 percent, based on the above analysis. The real benefit of the proposed project would
be much larger, however, owing to its significant unquantified benefits. The very concept
of serving ger area residents equally with the apartment dwellers will also provide a basis
for similar future interventions for other types of municipal service.
Ger Area Infrastructure Improvements
6.6   Planned Ger improvement covers various subcomponents reflecting the priorities
of the Ger residents, generating various economic benefits. Most of these benefits,
though hard to quantify, are substantial and directly accrue to Ger residents. Provision of
total length of 10.8 km roads, a bridge, and 30.8 km all-weather footpaths with four
footbridges in areas with the most critical needs can help save substantial time for the
residents to haul coal and wood, other household goods as well as to fetch water. For
example, the maximum travel distance for 20 kg water fetching will be reduced from the
maximum of 700 m to 350 m, and the footpaths will help ease the labor of water fetching
usually carried out by women and children. The benefit from easier fuel hauling is no
less significant, considering the bulky nature of coal and wood and its position as the
second largest expenditure item in Ger area. The estimated time saved for water fetching
alone would amount to over 10 million hours/year for 86,000 people, similar saving is
expected coal, wood and other household supplies. Paved roads can also substantially
save the fuel cost and maintenance expenditure for delivery trucks and other vehicles, as
well as save the time for delivery. The economic rate of return for $1.4 million



- 48 -
investment for road construction is estimated to be over 40 percent. Construction and
operation of public bathhouses and laundries can improve the health of Ger residents.
Likewise, improvement in solid waste collection would improve the hygiene of Ger area
considerably. Also important are the benefits from the construction of the stormwater
drainage in flood-prone areas, which can help reduce the property damage as well as
avoid the loss of human lives. In addition to these direct benefits, overall infrastructure
improvements would motivate the voluntary investments for further improvements in
each individual plot by each household. Some of these benefits would be captured by the
increase in property prices, particularly in light of the forthcoming privatization of urban
land. To summarize, there would be substantial and direct economic benefits to Ger area
residents, although difficult to quantify, and this component will also play a catalytic role
to induce further improvements in the Ger area.
C. AFFORDABILITY
6.7   Water Supply Components. The combination of nearby good-quality water and
charging systems based on the norms of 150 lcd makes the water bill well affordable to
apartment dwellers, accounting for 0.44 percent of the average income. The project's
introduction of a penalizing step tariff is meant to discourage water wastage for those
consuming more than 230 lcd, but would not affect the affordability for normal
households who would consume less than 230 lcd. Special care will be taken to reduce
the unit cost of water in real terms to apartment dwellers in introducing the step tariff so
that the actual burden to the household consuming 230 lcd will remain the same as
before. As for ger consumers, with the dramatic downward adjustment of water charges
and growing incomes, the financial burden will slowly decrease from about 1 percent to
0.4 percent of the average income in 2000. The drop in price of ger water is so huge that
it can more than compensate for the anticipated twofold increase in per capita
consumption and still enhance the affordability to ger residents.
6.8   Ger Area Infrastructure Improvement.  To ensure that the ger area
infrastructure charge is affordable, it would be established as 1 percent of average ger
incomes. Annual revisions by MUB of the charge applied to a ger area scheduled for
improvement would reflect increases in improvement costs in the previous year, but
would not exceed increases in the previous year's ger incomes. Also, the additional
household payments for improvement costs would be fully offset by reductions in
household expenditure on piped water from kiosks at the greatly reduced unit prices to be
realigned during the project implementation period. Ger beneficiaries would also pay
user fees for the sanitation component (bathhouses and laundries). The level of the fee
would aim at full cost recovery of the operating costs, while taking into account ger
beneficiaries' capacity to pay for the services. As the bathhouses and laundries will be
connected to the ger piped water system, it is anticipated that the cost of water for
providing the services should be substantially reduced, thereby increasing the prospects
for cost recovery with affordable charges. Assurances were obtained from MUB during
negotiations that. (a) user charges for ger improvements would be established by March
31, 1998, and deposited in a Municipal Ger Area Infrastructure account, the sources of



- 49 -
which are to be usedfor additional ger infrastructure improvements or their maintenance
unless otherwise agreed with IDA; (b) by commencement of the improvement program it
will adopt a scheme acceptable to the Association protecting the interests of ger area
residents, contributing to the ger infrastructure program and presently without any land
title.
D. RISKS
6.9   As the first urban project in a rapidly changing transitional economy, the project
faces a number of risks. These risks have been identified and mitigating measures
developed to reduce the overall project risk to acceptable levels.
6.10 Project Management. With MUB's thin capacity for project management and
relatively little exposure to IDA's procurement procedures, the project faces the risk of
implementation delays. However, AusAID-funded technical assistance has helped the
Municipality prepare major procurement packages for the first and second project years,
amounting to 25 percent of all project procurement. The project also allocates about $0.7
million for technical assistance in project implementation to ensure the availability of
appropriate expertise. In addition, a government official from MID, who is seconded to
the Bank Group for a year, will work full-time for the project during its implementation.
Frequent IDA supervision of the project during the first two years of implementation
would also provide strong startup support.
6.11  Institutional Risk. A relatively high degree of risk is inherent in enterprise
restructuring and commercialization in any transition economy.   The proposed
restructuring and institutional change in USAG is no exception. However, actions taken
during project preparation and planned for the implementation period should offset part
of this risk. These include: (a) the firm commitment of municipal authorities at the
highest levels to USAG's commercial reorientation and the reforms to be introduced;
(b) USAG staffs growing understanding of the proposed changes as a result of
discussions held during project preparation; (c) technical assistance and training to be
provided under the project to facilitate key reforms; and (d) the phased approach to
reorganization taken under USAG's Institutional Development Action Plan and its
inclusion of measures to reduce the pain of restructuring, such as staff downsizing
through attrition and retraining of redundant staff for new positions. These measures,
coupled with the potential demonstration effect to other state-owned enterprises of
USAG's commercialization, make this risk acceptable.
6.12  Although ongoing and expected market-oriented reforms in the municipality
would act to underpin project reform, possible development in some parts of the city and
the potential privatization of land could diminish or erase the benefits of the project's ger
infrastructure improvements to poor ger residents.
6.13  Cost Recovery. USAG's cost recovery will depend on MUB's willingness to
make timely and adequate adjustments to the water supply tariff in line with cost
increases. While both the central and municipal governments have made cost recovery
for municipal services a central feature of their urban strategies, the performance of the



- 50-
economy-which cannot be predicted with any certainty-will strongly affect the
announced political commitment. As part of the Sector Improvement Action Plan,
USAG and MUB have agreed to undertake biannual reviews of USAG's two year
financial projections with the recommended tariff and structure to meet the financial
covenant (para. 5.13).  In ger areas, the level of cost recovery for the proposed
Infrastructure Account as well as the fee for public baths and other facilities would be
decided within affordability limits and would be implemented with active participation of
the local community.
6.14 Consumer Response to Block Metering. Although block metering would not be
as effective an incentive as individual metering to discourage waste, potential consumer
resistance to decreasing wastage will be countered by the introduction of a penalizing
step-tariff for excessive consumption. This will be complemented by investment in
fixture repairs, vigorous public awareness program to promote water conservation, and
the planned introduction of a new system for collecting housing management fees, which
will group a small number of apartments in one collection unit.
6.15  Technical Risks. The risks involved in cold climate engineering have been
mitigated by enlisting the advice of a consultant with extensive Alaskan experience to
ensure appropriate project designs. The engineering alternatives selected for the project
are already in use on other schemes in more severe climactic conditions, which use the
technology incorporated in the project design.
E. SENSITIVITY TEST
6.16  A test to measure the sensitivity of EIRR of the water supply component was
carried out for major variables, including different level of water consumption by ger
residents as well as apartment residents. If the average water consumption by ger
residents turns out to be 15 lcd and 25 lcd, rather than assumed 20 lcd, the resultant EIRR
would change to 13.2 and 17.2 percent, respectively. Likewise, if the average apartment
resident consumes 200 lcd and 250 lcd of water instead of 230 lcd in the base case, the
EIRR would be 16.1 and 13.8 percent, respectively. This is consistent with the analysis,
as the major sources of economic benefits are increased welfare in ger area and the
savings of valuable resources from the reduction of waste in apartments. Thus, even
under the unfavorable scenarios of lower water consumption in ger area or less than
expected level of wastage reduction in apartments, the project remains viable. It is also
important to note that, under both scenarios, the effect on the financial viability of the
project is negligible.



- 51 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the borrower would onlend the
proceeds of the credit to MUB under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.24).
7.2   During negotiations, the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar provided assurances to:
(a)   undertake a study of appropriate alternatives to fund ger area refuse
collection; by July 1, 1998 submit the study and recommendations to the
Association for comments; and by December 31, 1998, prepare an action
plan acceptable to the Association to implement the agreed
recommendations (para. 2.25).
(b)   cause USAG to establish and operate a separate maintenance account to
provide an adequate level of maintenance and repair for its facilities, and
increase expenditures on maintenance, as part of its fiscal year starting on
January 1, 1998 by 10 percent per year in real terms during the project
period, unless otherwise agreed with IDA (para. 3.11);
(c)   equalize the unit water tariff for apartment residents and ger area residents,
no later than completion of the project's piped water supply to ger areas
(para. 3.15);
(d)   integrate the TANK activities with those of USAG, established under the
1995 Partnership and Company Law, no later than December 31, 1997
(para. 3.17);
(e)   implement a Sector Improvement Action Plan and cause USAG to
implement for its own jurisdiction an Institutional Development Action
Plan, periodically review them with IDA, and submit revisions to the Plan
to IDA for prior approval (para. 3.22 and 3.23);
(f)   carry out a Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program acceptable to the
Association and submit any revision to such a program to the Association
for its prior approval (para 4.14);
(g)   by December 31, 1998, carry out a study regarding medium-term
development and planning of ger areas in MUB, including definition of
appropriate levels of public investment, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and take the recommendations arising from
the study into account in its urban development planning (para 4.15);



- 52 -
(h)   recruit consultants for the project under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para. 4.17);
(i)   under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, onlend to USAG all credit proceeds
on the terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.24);
(j)   have the Environmental Management Program carried out in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.38);
(k)   cause USAG to separate the accounts of its water supply operations from
those of its sewerage operations no later than December 31, 1998
(para. 4.44);
(1)   have the project accounts, including the Special Account and Statements
of Expenditures, and cause USAG to have its financial statements audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with a separate opinion on
SOEs, and submit the audit report to IDA, no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.45);
(m)   submit to the Association: (i) annual project financial reports and biannual
project implementation reports (para. 4.46) and (ii) mid-project review
report by October 30, 1999 (para. 4.47);
(n)   arrange to provide necessary project counterpart funding needed directly
or through USAG (para. 5.2);
(o)   beginning in USAG's fiscal year commencing January 1, 1998, cause
USAG to take necessary measures, including adjustment of tariffs, to
ensure that its annual operating revenues cover annual operating costs and
the amount by which debt service requirement exceed the provision for
depreciation (para. 5.13);
(p)   starting October 1997, and biannually each April and October thereafter,
USAG would submit to its Board and IDA, annual financial forecasts for
the current and the next following years, and implement the reconrmended
tariff rate and structure (para. 5.13); and
(q)   (i) establish charges for ger improvements by commencement of the
infrastructure improvement program, to be used for additional ger
infrastructure improvements or their maintenance; and (ii) by
commencement of the infrastructure improvement program adopt a
scheme acceptable to the Association protecting the interest of ger area
residents, contributing to the ger infrastructure program and presently
without any land title (para. 6.8).



- 53 -
7.3   As conditions of credit effectiveness, (a) USAG would be established under
Mongolia's Partnership and Company Law (para. 3.23); (b) subsidiary loan agreements
would be concluded between the Central Government and the Municipal Government of
Ulaanbaatar and between the municipality and USAG (para. 4.24); (c) consultants for
project management would be recruited (para. 4.17); and (d) a Project Management Unit
with budget functions, staffing, and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association would
be established and thereafter maintained throughout project implementation (para. 4.34).
7.4   With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR 12.3 million ($16.7 million equivalent) to Mongolia for a period of 40 years,
including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA terms.






- 55 -                     ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: THE ULAANBAATAR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
INTRODUCTION
1.    Prior to 1950, Ulaanbaatar (UB) had relatively few inhabitants who lived
exclusively in gers and took their water from the Tuul River. But with significant
population growth, the tanking of water became necessary in 1950, with deliveries made
directly to family plots. Wells were also used but, by 1965, they were closed due to
pollution and the system of water sales kiosks was established.
2.    Also from about 1958, the construction of a piped water reticulation system was
established in the city's formally developed area and that system has been extended and
improved since then. The water supplied to the system is primarily from aquifers and is
obtained from wellfields with numbers of boreholes, each with its submersible pump.
Once lifted from the boreholes, the water is chlorinated before being pumped to supply.
These networks directly supply the formally developed areas of the city, while the peri-
urban areas still rely on the operation of a road tanker fleet that obtains most of its supply
via filling stations connected to the water mains.
3.    The present supply system suffers from aging assets, intermittent supplies and
lack of pressure in the pipelines, with the consequent risk of contamination.
WATER DEMAND
4.    In 1995, water demand in UB totaled about 161,935 m3/d, of which 121,532 m3/d
from apartments (296,420 persons at 410 lcd), 38,159 m3/d from industry, and 2.244 m3 /d
from ger residents (224,443 persons at 10 lcd). UB's 74,000 apartments with hot and
cold running water housed about 323,000 in 1995, of whom 296,420 were supplied from
the municipal water supply network.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
5.    Supply Sources. There are four existing water supply sources called the Upper,
Central, Industrial and Meat Complex. They all extract groundwater from aquifers along
the Tuul River. The groundwater source capacity has been investigated and found to
have potential for future development.
6.    Upper Source is located about 45 km upstream of UB. Water is collected from 39
wells, and intake pumps deliver it to 2/1,000 m3 storage reservoirs (Total Water Level,
TWL, 1,425 m). The water is pumped over a ridge to the "X" reservoir (not yet
commissioned) and the city. There are six pumps at the pump station, each with a
nominal capacity of 1,000 m3/hr. The pipeline has a design capacity of 72,000 m3/d, but



- 56-                      ANNEX I
is currently delivering only 24,000 m3/d, with delivery pressure much less than expected.
Only 1.2 pumps (operating 20 hr/d) are needed to deliver the current production, so there
is potential to substantially increase output from the Upper Source. The majority of flow
from the Upper Source pipeline is proposed to go to the Northeast Reservoir (2/6,000 m3
tanks with a TWL of 1,387 m), which is not yet in service.
7.    Central Source is located on the Tuul River near the city center. Water is
collected from 70 wells and delivered to 10,000 m3 reservoirs (6,000 m3, 3,000 m3, 2/500
mi3). Its design capacity is 97,000 m 3/d, and it is presently delivering about 90,000 m3/d
to the city network. The main delivery pipeline comprises 3/600 mm diameter mild steel
mains that direct flow into the network and toward the Tasgan Reservoir (3/6,000 m3
tanks) with a TWL of 11,335 m.
8.    Industrial Source is located downstream of the Central Source and includes 16
wells with intake pumps that deliver to 2/2,000 mi3 storage reservoirs. The pump station
contains four pumps with nominal capacities of 2/200 and 2/250 m3/hr. The delivery
mains to the city network and industrial area are 500, 3/400 and 300 mm diameter mild
steel mains. The design capacity is 43,000 m 3/day and it is now delivering about 22,000
m3/d, which means that all four pumps are operating 24 hr/d.
9.    Meat Complex Source is located downstream of the Industrial source and includes
8 wells that deliver water to 2/2,000 mi3 storage. The pump station has four pumps with
nominal capacities of 2/160 and 2/250 m3/hr. The delivery mains to the city network and
meat processing area are 2,400 and 2/250 mm diameter mild steel mains that now deliver
about 16,000 m'3/d of flow to the city. This flow will be directed to the Northwest
reservoir (2/3,000 m3 tanks with TWL of 1,347 m) when it comes into service. All
pumps are operating 20 hr/d, so there are no standby pumps.
10.   Reservoirs: Utilization of Unused Capacity in the Proposed Project. There
are five existing reservoirs in the system on the hills north and east of UB. They are not
linked to each other, or fully utilized to provide adequate system storage or gravity
system pressure. USAG and MUB have indicated the inadequate use of the reservoirs is
due to inadequate information about their level of filling, and that a telemetric system
would assist in an integrated use of all reservoirs. Nor, with the exception of the
easternmost (Northeast) reservoir, are they high enough to service by gravity the large ger
population in the large valley north of UB. To a large extent, pressure is maintained in
the network by direct pumping from the well-head sources. However, many areas suffer
from inadequate water supply and pressure, and facilities serving high-rise apartment
blocks are not equipped to boost-pump water to the higher floors in nine-story buildings.
11.   The total water storage volume available is 48,000 mi3, of which only 24,000 m 3 is
currently used. Fifty percent of constructed service storage remains a dormant asset due
to weak points (weak valves and pipe segments), particularly in the northeastern section
of the deteriorated city network, which would not withstand the higher pressures caused
by putting the reservoirs in service. While pipe segments are designed for working



- 57 -                     ANNEX 1
pressure of 100 to 120 m, in practice they break at about 60 to 80 m head. The proposed
project would therefore rehabilitate the transmission system and commission the
reservoirs in order to increase pressure in the system, provide a continuous water supply
and make more water available to users.
12.   The "X" Reservoir. The unused "X" reservoir was constructed to operate as a
break pressure tank to limit pressures into the city network, transmission system
weaknesses delayed reservoir commission. The reservoir comprises 2/3,000 m3 tanks
with TWL of 1,430 m. With the reservoir, the hydraulic head developed at the location
where the main transmission main enters the city is around 1,385 m, whereas current
pressures are about 1,350 m. With this available head, the pressures are enough to supply
flows by gravity directly to the Northeast Reservoir, also now unused. This would allow
the Northeast Reservoir, commanding pressures from an elevation of 1,382 m, to function
as a supply reservoir for the Hailast Reservoir to be constructed under the proposed
project.
13.   "3/4" and Northeast Reservoirs. The "3/4" Reservoir would be mobilized to
serve both as a supply reservoir for the immediate city network and to fill up the two
adjacent lower reservoirs, the Northwestern and the Tasgan. As the highest of the three
reservoirs, the "3/4" can also be used to supplement the other two reservoirs and thereby
eliminate the need for the pumping now carried out from the Tasgan reservoir to the city
network, as well as to fill the Northwest reservoir. A 500 mm diameter northern link
would also provide additional filling capacity into the Northeast reservoir, for which
supply would be to both the city network and to the ger reservoir at Hailast.
14.   Northwestern Reservoir. The project's southern link pipeline will provide a
direct connection to the Northwestern Reservoir from the upper source.
15.   Raw Water Pipelines. There are about 98 km of unlined mild steel pipelines
conveying the raw water from the well intake pumps to the source storages.
16.   Water Quality. A JICA study indicates that the water generally complies with
Mongolian and World Health Organization standards, although levels of chrome,
manganese and fluoride occasionally exceed desirable levels in one of the aquifers close
to the industrial zone.
17.   Distribution System. Each of the four main water source works delivers water to
its supply system. These systems are interconnected at strategic locations but do not
incorporate either flow or pressure control. The pipes are of steel or cast iron and range
in diameter from 100 mm to 800 mm. Generally, pipes are laid at a depth of 3 to 3.5 m.
The system was built from 1958 to 1990 and extends some 240 km.
18.   The delivery of water to the distribution networks is by pumping: first from the
ground reservoirs at the source works and thereafter either from USAG's booster stations
or from the Central Heating Point (CTP) stations or booster pumps at individual
buildings. The supply of water therefore depends on the continued availability of



- 58 -                     ANNEX I
electrical power at various locations around the city, and since this is intermittent, so too
is the availability of water. When power is off, the pressure in the water mains is lost and
vacuum conditions develop, thus drawing in air to the pipework. Where the integrity of
underground pipes is poor, this negative pressure can draw groundwater into the system,
thereby creating contamination.
19.   Except for sections supplied by the "Tasgan" and "3/4" reservoirs, the water
supply network "floats" on the pumping plant that has to respond to diurnal changes in
demand. This method of operations is inefficient and provides a poor level o f service.
20.   Pipe Materials Used and Cold Climate Effects. Pipes are either steel or cast
iron, with no internal lining or protection. The outside of some pipe is coated with
bitumen or wrapped with asphalt sheets. Lack of internal protection leads to rust stains,
one of the main causes of discoloration in the water supply. Trench depths are usually 2
to 3 m, and there appears to be a lack of control during installation of the trenching
methods and provision of adequate bedding and compacting of materials. Pipe joints are
generally caulked and without adequate maintenance may have deteriorated and be a
major cause of the pipelines not withstanding high pressures. Pressure above about 60 to
80 m results in significant leakages into pipe and appurtenances. A common practice to
prevent the pipelines from freezing is to install cold water pipes in the same trench as
heating or hot water pipes, but this is limited to installations at and downstream of the
CTPs.



- 59 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
WATER SUPPLY INVESTMENTS
1.    This component deals with three different aspects of the system  and its
operations:
(a)   strengthening of the existing network and removal of bottlenecks on the
primary distribution network;
(b)   the construction of additional distribution facilities to improve the service
in ger areas and to reduce the access cost to users, and;
(c)   the implementation of a water wastage reduction program for apartment
areas aimed at bringing overall consumption levels, which are now
inordinately high and reflect major losses to leakage, in line with more
typical levels through control by metering and replacement of leaking
facilities.
2.    Strengthening of the existing network is composed of the following:
(a)   continuation and completion of a transmission loop around the main areas
of the city, with the supply and laying of pipelines for the northern
transmission main (3.0 km of 300 mm diameter), linking between the
reservoirs at Northwest, 3/4 district, Tasgan and Northeast locations
(18.0 km of 500/400/300 mm diameter) and the southern links for the
city's network main (12 km of 400 mm diameter);
(b)   rehabilitation and commissioning of the Northeast and X reservoirs,
coupled with installation of a telemetry system intended to optimize use of
the reservoirs;
(c)   the repair and replacement of existing valves and installation of regulating
valves to increase pressures on secondary networks presently ill served;
and
(d)   provision of equipment and spares for the workshop and laboratory.
3.    Construction of Additional Distribution Facilities. This would improve the
supply of water to ger areas and reduce the cost of water to the local inhabitants. The
component would develop reservoirs and networks for 12 of the city's existing 18 ger
areas. The project areas selected are, unlike the other six areas, not scheduled for urban



-60-                      ANNEX 2
redevelopment or dissolution due to permafrost. The project ger areas are mostly in the
northeast and northwest fringes of the formally built-up districts and include the areas of
Gandan, Denjin, Hailast, Chingeltei, Shar Had, Dambadarjaa, Dari Ekh, Tolgoit, Naran,
Baiyankoshuu, Nisek and Yarmag. Works would comprises the following:
(a)   about 93 km of specially insulated pipes for installation as the primary
network in ger areas, with risers to the public water kiosks serving the
population;
(b)   supply and laying of two transmission pipelines (9.3 km of 300/500 mm
diameter) and 2.7 km of 500 mm diameter) linking the ger distribution
system to the existing city network;
(c)   construction of three semiburied reservoirs at Hailast, Yarmag and Shar
Had, with a total capacity of 2,500 m3;
(d)   drilling of two boreholes at Yarmag and Baiyankoshuu to supply areas that
are more economically served through independent groundwater supply;
and
(e)   construction of 25 new water kiosks and rehabilitation of 110 old ones
serving the 12 ger areas.
4.    The water wastage reduction program comprises the following investments:
(a)   supply and installation of about 22,000 cold and hot water meters for
apartment building cores;
(b)   supply of fixtures and piping for internal use in apartments and buildings;
and
(c)   provision of meter testing and repair facilities.
5.    Ger Upgrading Improvement Program.
(a)   Construction of a program of drains, culverts and flood protection walls
and levees in Denjin, Chingeltei and Dambadarjaa totaling about:
* 2.6 km of concrete sided and bottomed drains, and 2.2 km levees;
*  construction of 28.1 km, 1-1.2 m wide footpaths;
* 10.8 km of paved and gravel roads in all five ger areas selected under
this first upgrading program;
(b)   Construction of four footbridges and a roadbridge in the areas of
Chingeltei and Dambadarjaa; and



-61-                         ANNEX 2
*  manufacture and installation of some 650 3 m3 bins for refuse
collection in all five ger areas;
(c)    Supply of several refuse collection trucks, compactors and equipment to
improve the collection along ger tracks; and
(d)   Construction and installation or repair of one set of bathhouse and or
laundry facilities in each of the five ger areas.



-62 -                       ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT
INDICATORS
1. Poverty Alleviation
* Number of water kiosks served by a piped supply
*  Ratio of the unit price of water to ger areas and to apartments to become one
by end of project period
* Number of ger plots with access to footpath/road within 50 meters
* Per capita ger consumption of water
* Growth of Ger Infrastructure Revenues
2. Efficiency Enhancement
* Decline in per capita water consumption in apartment buildings
* Collection rates of water revenues for apartments and institutions/industries
- Amount of water delivered by truck
- Population served by USAG water supply to total number of USAG staff
* Ratio of revenue to number of USAG staff
3. Capacity Building
* Number of water meters installed under project
* Actual vs. planned budget expenditures for system maintenance
* Ratio of USAG's operating revenue to expenditures
4. Implementation Progress
* Actual Disbursements versus Targets
* Planned versus Actual bid documents prepared by each December
* Planned versus Actual bid documents awarded each April



- 63 -                              ANNEX3
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT INDICATORS
Year                                                  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   2002  2003
Poverty Alleviation
Water kiosks served by pipes                             0    50   100   150   187   170   190
Ger Water Price/Apt Water Price                         12      8      6      4      2      1      1
No. of Ger Plots within 50 m of Footpaths/Roads       1,490  1,490  2,520  6,770 10,000 11,500 12,120
Ger Per Capita Water Consumption (Icd.)                  9    10  10-14  11-16  12-18  14-20  15-20
Growth of Ger Infrastructure Revenues. ($'000) La        0    50   150   300   450   700  1,000
Efficiency Enhancement
Decline of Apartment Per capita Consumption (Icd.)     410   350   325   300   270   250   230
Amounts of Water delivered by tanker truck (m3)      2,200  2,100  1,700  1,400  1,000   700   650
Ratio: Revenues/No. of USAG StaffLa                  2,360  2,480  2,650  2,670  2,760  2,940  3,070
Collection Rate Apartments                              85    88    90    92    95    98    98
Collection Rate Institutions/Industries                 90    92    95    96    96    100   100
Population served by USAG water supply to total number
USAG staff                                          354   390   431   474   512   533    540
Capacity Building
No. of water meters installed under Project            100  4,500 10,000 15,000 17,500 19,500 22,000
Actual vs. planned budget Expenditures for maintenance   -    75    80    85    89    93    97
Operating Income/(Operating costs+Debt service)%       100   100   100   100   100   100   100
Implementation Progress
Actual Disbursements vs. Targets (%)                    90    90    90   100   100   100           -
Planned vs. actual bid documents prepared by each Dec. (%)  70   100   100   100   100   100       -
Planned vs. actual bid documents awarded each April (%/o)  70    90   100   100   100   100
La In base year, costs recovered in Constant $/Tug Price.



- 64 -                      ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: WATER SUPPLY METERING
1.   It is Government policy to introduce metering and to support the principle of
"user pays" pricing for all water and electricity consumers. A Government decree was
passed in 1995 that stipulates that water and electricity meters would be installed in all
individual premises by 1998. However, this involves a substantial financial commitment,
and implementation of the policy has not yet commenced. Previous studies carried out in
1994/95 under the Ministry of Energy's responsibility, have highlighted the extent of
water wastage and losses in apartment buildings, and the potential for substantial
reductions in water supply operating costs if these losses can be eliminated.
CURRENT SITUATION
2.    Ulaanbaatar's water supply network was initially equipped with water meters at
all distribution booster stations (CTP), which are located ahead of the secondary networks
serving apartment networks; all wells and pumping stations were installed without any
meter. Most of these meters have ceased functioning over time, and the water company,
USAG, has found it impossible to determine overall production rates from the wells or
amounts pumped in each of the CTPs for hot and cold water boosted to the block
buildings of the apartments.
3.    Downstream of the CTP and secondary networks, design of piping in apartments
has generally included within each stairwell two cold water rising pipes and one hot water
rising pipe. Except in the most recently constructed buildings, there is no returning hot
water pipe. All networks downstream of a CTP are currently owned and maintained by
the 17 subsidiaries of the Housing and Maintenance Service Company (OSNAAK).
These 17 subsidiaries, named kantors, are physically responsible for at least one pumping
station (CTP), a few small stocking reservoirs, the secondary networks and all plumbing
facilities in the apartment buildings.
4.    USAG remains responsible for direct water service to industries, institutional
clients such as schools and hospitals and a very limited number of domestic customers in
the center of the city. There are about 1,060 accounts directly managed by USAG.
Although 100 of these accounts are metered and have operating meters, most of the
billing has been carried out on the basis of norms established over time based on Soviet
standards and applied for both design and billing of consumers. USAG bills the CTPs on
the basis of a domestic water consumption of 150 liters per capita per day, whereas recent
water consumption surveys have demonstrated that apartment inhabitants can consume as
much as 410 lcd.
5.    The current situation of water losses in the primary distribution system owned and
maintained by USAG remains very unclear as no survey of water losses has been carried



- 65 -                     ANNEX4
out; USAG indicates that water breakages on these primary mains occur about 20 to 30
times per year. Water losses and wastage are far higher in secondary networks and
apartment plumbing fixtures. The kantors do not keep records of the number of pipe
breakages on the secondary network, but their managers state that the number of
plumbers within each kantor (one person per 1,200 to 2,000 apartments) is insufficient to
face demands caused by leaks on secondary networks, block apartment buildings and
internal apartment properties. A survey conducted in 1994 with the introduction of
experimental metering in two apartment buildings demonstrated that: (a) initially, water
consumption was at about 310 to 330 lcd; (b) after undertaking a fixture replacement
program on one building and setting individual meters on each apartment pipe riser, water
consumption dropped to about 163 lcd, while it remained at about 240 lcd without any
fixture repair program; (c) apartment inhabitants were highly conscious of the need to
conserve water by closing water taps whenever repaired, and sensitive to the introduction
of water billing based on actual consumption and had started requesting more frequent
plumbing assistance from kantor staff to maintain as low a water wastage as possible.
The survey also pointed out that the pattern of consumption also changed, with metered
apartments using much less cold water in total and percentage terms.
STRATEGY AND PROPOSALS
6.    In view of the extreme difficulty of obtaining reliable data to rationalize water
utilization and develop a satisfactory billing system, Mongolia's professional community
has recognized the need to urgently reintroduce metering and provide incentives to the
population to control the water wastage occurring either through abusive use of both hot
and cold water or leaking faucets and apartment fixtures and the deteriorating stock of
leaky pipes outside apartment properties. A first effort is under way under a preliminary
JICA-financed initiative focusing on the study and strengthening of UB's water
production assets. The JICA funding would include provision of water meters to monitor
water production by the pumping stations and installation of about 51 water meters at the
37 CTPs. This program would be completed before the end of 1997. JICA also intends
to fund the metering and automation of pumping stations of all production facilities over
the next few years.
7.    Three options for apartment metering have been considered:  (a) metering
individual apartments; (b) metering building cores (i.e., typically groups of 12 to 27
apartments); or (c) metering buildings separately (i.e., groups of more than 60
apartments). Cost estimates are, respectively, $7.7 million, $1.2 million and $0.6 million.
It is recognized that metering individual apartments may be adopted because it is most
socially equitable, and metering buildings separately is the least expensive and equitable
and would be the least likely to achieve significant water conservation. However, the
proposed option, metering building cores, is a compromise because of its acceptable cost
to the community and because it can commence the process of linking responsibility for
water consumption with the cost of water to apartment residents. It also follows logically
from the CTPs' metering and is a timely step in the process of introducing volume-based
charging.



- 66 -                     ANNEX4
8.    UB has some 755 apartment buildings with 2,618 building cores. Metering at the
stairwell level would require a total of about 3,200 metering points on the water risers; a
first survey of existing internal plumbing piping leading to the apartments shows that
there should be four meters at the base of each column to appropriately capture the
consumption of each set of stairwell residents. A more extensive survey of local
conditions is being carried out by kantors to identify the issues in developing stairwell
metering and preparing standards for equipment and installation of this major metering
undertaking.
9.    Discussions indicate agreements on the following points:
(a)   meters should be owned by USAG while being left to the responsibility of
the kantors who will be charged a maintenance fee by USAG. The repair
and maintenance of meters would be carried out at the kantors' request, by
USAG who would receive adequate testing equipment and meter spares to
carry out its maintenance role;
(b)   meter installation would be carried out by kantors' staff; the supply will
come from USAG and would include all parts to allow satisfactory
installation and potential dismantling for repair;
(c)   a first survey of typical installation conditions will be carried out in Spring
1997 to ensure good knowledge of location conditions and the nature of
parts;
(d)   the purchase of some 22,000 meters for block metering of both hot and
cold water will be included under the Credit; a first tranche of some 5,000
meters would be bid during the Year 1 implementation period, so that
installation could start by end- 1997 and extend through winter 1997-98.
10.   Trade, Industrial and Institutional Metering. USAG will resume billing of all
trade, institutional and industrial customers it used to bill according to actual
consumption. New meters would be purchased as part of the project under the first
tranche of meters supplied. As for the apartment meters, USAG would own the meters,
and would charge a rental and maintenance fee to the customer.
11.   Development of Billing Systems. The present billing system established at the
kantor level needs to be overhauled and account for the reforms introduced with the
privatization of the housing market; these new systems should also ensure that customers
can be later billed according to the quantity of water consumed. The issuance of water
supply bills by the kantors will ensure that the latter retain the responsibility and expertise
to address maintenance issues at the building block level. Kantors are also the most
appropriate unit to keep information on population and residences, and are the most
amenable to ensure appropriate collection of water bills together with other utility
charges. While ultimately through the privatization process this billing and collection
function might return to each individual utility (heating, water, power, solid wastes), the
preparation of billing systems should be devised to permit this potential change of future



- 67 -                    ANNEX4
responsibility and maintain similarity in systems across each kantor's own systems.
Similarly, USAG will need to recast it own billing system and introduce mechanisms to:
(a) obtain payment other than through bank account compensation, and (b) monitor
effective payments for the introduction of disconnection policies.
FIXTURE REPAIR PROGRAM
12.   This program aims at helping the apartment users reduce substantially the water
wastage within their apartment. The above-mentioned survey has shown that many taps
are not closing properly, many toilets are flowing constantly and occasionally internal
building piping is corroded and leaks. Under the same survey, repairs then effected
resulted in substantial water consumption reduction in the whole building and greater
apartment residents' awareness of controlling their own consumption and continuing to
repair fixtures that resumed leaking. The current program would tentatively follow an
identical approach.
(a)   It is proposed that under the project USAG would purchase various parts
and fixtures needed to replace defective plumbing parts. These purchases
would be carried out over a three-year period according to needs and to
progress of the replacement campaign;
(b)   USAG would pass on the equipment to OSNAAK and the kantors and
charge them for the equipment cost on terms and conditions to be defined
over the next two months by the two organizations;
(c)   The kantors and OSNAAK  would in turn carry out the fixture
replacement. To provide reliable estimates of equipment needs and to
sensitize apartment residents, a preliminary investigation will be launched
by kantor staff over the next two months. This survey would help clarify
the modalities under which the carnpaign should be carried out, in
particular (i) the time when it should follow the metering campaign; and
(ii) the need to tackle all repairs within one building at a time; and the
terms of repayment for the equipment from the residents to the kantors (a
period of about one to two years with a down payment of, say, 20 percent
of the equipment cost would seem appropriate goals). The review of the
proposed modalities will be discussed in April with the IDA appraisal
mission and OSNAAK and kantors, and results of the surveys should be
available to the Project Office before then.
PILOT EXPERIENCE OF INDIVIDUAL METERING
13.   At the request of the Municipality and USAG, the project would include a pilot
program aiming at individual metering of apartment premises to be carried out in one or
two buildings during the second half of the project. The program would examine the
increased benefits of single apartment metering versus bloc building metering, in
particular the gain in water consumption monitoring and improvements realized in the
management and billing.



ANNEX 5A: SECTOR IMPROVEMENT ACTION PLAN
#   Component              Decision/Action Required             Responsible   Target Date                              Comments
Agency
1       2                            3                              4              5            6                          7
I    All         Formally endorse MUSP project & submit to IDA   GOM Cabinet   Apr-1-97
2    All/C       Establish the amount of money required for staff &  MUB/USAG  June-1-97    by              PMU establishment and appoint'm't of
administrative costs of PMU, provide for the                                              staff is condit. of effectiveness. Also as a
required funds in the 1997 MUJB/USAG Budgets &                                            Covenant, MUB would maintain PMU for
maintain PMU throughout project implementation.                                           the project duration with staff, powers,
responsibilities & facilities satisfactory to
IDA.
3    All         Establish amount of money required for advance    MUB/USAG    Apr-15-97   by              Expenditures of about Tug O00 million,
ffunding of works/activities to begin in 1997                                             made on project works would be
retroactively reimbursed from Credit once
it is made effective about Oct 1997.
4    All         Submit project monitoring indicators to IDA   MUB/GOM/    Apr-15-97   & annually on
annually                                      PMU                         Apr- 15
thereafter
5    All         Submit annual Project Implementation Plan with    MUB/PMU     July-1-97    & annually     First PIP is for 1997; next one would be for
proposed procurement and bidding schedule                                 there-after     1998                                      as
each Oct. 15.
6    Ger/C       Submit scheme to protect benefits of ger infra-  MUB                       Prior to       Also a covenant.
structure Investments                                                     construction
of Upgrading
comp.
7    All         Prepare & submit to IDA for review a Ger      MUB/USAG/PM  Dec.-31-98   by                Draft report available for review by Sept.
redevelopment plan.                          U/CONS                                       98.
8    Ger/C       Set up Ger Improvement Account for collection of  MUB         Mar-31-98   Or at the latest  A Covenant.Account to receive user's
user charges and start collecting charges.                                6 months after   contributions.
AusAID Grant
Effective
9    Ger/C       Undertake a study of appropriate alternatives for    MUB      Jul-1 -98    by             A Covenant.
funding ger area refuse collections, and discuss
findings with IDA.
10a  Water/C     Establish & operate a separate account to provide an USAG     Dec-31-97   by              Covenant. After 5 years, maintenance
adequate level of maintenance & repair for USAG                                           expenditures would not decrease without   a
facilities, so that expenditures on maintenance will                                     IDA's agreement.
increase in real terms at not less than 10% per
annum on the 1996 base, over the next 5 years.



#   Component             Decision/Action Required            Responsible   Target Date                             Comments
Agency
1       2                           3                              4             5           6                          7
10b  Water      Prepare & submit to USAG Board, annual       USAG            Mar-1-98 for by Oct-15 for
maintenance activity schedule & related                     Year 98     each
expenditures                                                            subsequent
year.
11   Water/C    Introduce accounting rules & procedures in   USAG            Jan-1-99    not later than    A Covenant. Requires preparation of
accordance with IAAS standards & separate the                                           internal procedures to record cost-flow
accounts of water supply from sewerage operations.                                      between sections, to reflect real water &
sewer activity costs.
12a  Water       Submit Draft Articles for USAG incorporation to    MUB/USAG  Mar-15-97                  Done
IDA.
12b  Water      After consultation with IDA approve & register  MUB/USAG     Jun-1-97                    Before Credit approval by Board.
USAG.                                                                                   Condition Of Effectiveness.
13   Water      Appoint USAG Board members                   MUB             Jul-1-97
14   Water      Prepare & submit to IDA a year-wise & building    USAG/OSNAAK Apr-15-97                  Program to begin with blocks in which
block-wise schedule & program for implementing                                          meters are easy to install &serve maximum
the block metering program.                                                             number of apartments.
15   Water      Prepare draft modalities for implementing Plumbing USAG/OSNAAK Apr-15-97                 USAG to borrow funds & seek repayment
Fixture program & recovering costs of fixture repair                                   from OSNAAK & OSNAAK to obtain
program.                                                                                repayments from users. First survey carried
out.
16   Water      Bill Kantor directly on basis of metered quantity    USAG    Jul-1-97    & thereafter as  Starting date is uncertain & depends on
recorded by CTP meters & read by USAG                                   each CTP is    JICA CTP meter delivery schedule. The
metered        earlier the better
17   Water      Contract Consultants for TA in institutional restruc- USAG/PMU  Oct-1-97    by           Consultants work to start in Feb 98.
turing, fin. mangement &system modeling &
Maintenance Scheduling.
18   Water      Prepare & submit to IDA & USAG Board,        USAG/MUB/PM  Oct-15-97   & annually by   The PMU would collect, compile & submit
Performance Contract between MUB & USAG,    U                           Dec-15         the Progress Reports & Performance
including monitorable, quantitative indicators                          thereafter     Indicators.
19   Water      Biannually submit to Board and IDA a compre-    USAG         Oct-15-97   & every April
hensive plan containing i) financial projections for                    15 and Oct 15
current and following years ii) detailed budget                         thereafter
proposal that contains maintenance budget for
current and following years; iii) recom'd tariff rate
and structure, and timing of imnplementation to meet                                                                             Z
the financial covenant; iv) actual performance and
traget for agreed performance indicators.
20   Water       Carry out a Public Awareness Program re metering, MUB/USAG/CO Mar-1-98    & biannually
step tariffs & water consumption reduction  NS                          thereafter.
objectives & submit annually for IDA review.



#   Component             Decision/Action Required             Responsible   Target Date                             Comments
Agency
1       2                            3                             4             5            6                          7
21   Water       Produce phased, detailed action plan for     USAG/CONS    Jul-1-98       by              Start by reorganizing USAG structure to
restructuring & reorganizing USAG, including                                             clearly seperate water & sewer activities in
staffing plan                                                                            each section.
22   Water       USAG to take over reading, billing & collections of MUB/USAG/OS          When USAG
building block meters from OSNAAK as & when   NAAK                       capacity exists
Kantors & OSNAAK's business role is redefined                            & housing
under privatization process.                                             privatization
program is
settled.
23   Water       Prepare schedule & program to gradually transfer   MUB/USAG  Jan-1-00
water supply & sewerage planning, design
&investment programming functions from MUB to
USAG & specify commencement date of program.
24   Water       Prepare an Action Program satisfactory to IDA,    MUB/USAG   Dec-1-99    & annually      A Covenant. For quantities over the cut-off
covering the introduction of a step tariff to                            thereafter.     rate (230 lcd) the initial rate may be the
discourage water wastage and progressively lower                                         same as the institutional tariff. The Action
the cut-off consumption level for applying penalty                                       Plan will be adjusted annually in
tariff rate, based on actual metered consumption                                         consultation with IDA.
rates.                                                                                                                             0
PS   Note:       The operational action plan was agreed at
negotiations. It will be used as a tool for monitoring
progress in project implementation, and could be
further amended by mutual agreement of the IDA
and GOM during review missions.
_                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"



- 71-                      ANNEXSB
ANNEX 5B: USAG: CURRENT ORGANIZATION AND
DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN
Legal Status
14.   USAG, Ulaanbaatar's state-owned water and wastewater entity, has not been
registered under the 1995 Company Law, as it should have been, because of (a) lack of
the governing and auditing bodies required by the Company Law, and (b) Articles of
Association not in accordance with the Law. New draft Articles have been prepared and
will be revised to reflect the 1995 Company Law before they are approved by the
Municipality and duly registered. USAG's subscribed and unpaid capital have not been
properly estimated and updated due to the lack of assets revaluation. With completion of
these requirements, USAG's new legal status would give it more autonomy, although its
tariff structure and levels would remain under the Municipality's control. On attaining
company status, a performance contract should be finalized between the Municipality and
USAG to regulate municipal obligations regarding the tariff level and provide USAG
with required performance indicators.
Organizational Structure
15.   USAG's organizational structure has a horizontal configuration indicating that the
General Manager is responsible for most decision-making. Its organizational chart also
combines two bodies: USAG as well as the previously existing TANK Company, which
was incorporated into USAG but retained the organizational structure developed before
the incorporation. Furthermore, USAG's water- and sewer-related activities are not
separated in its operational divisions; for example, the Maintenance Division deals with
both the water and sewerage network. With such a structure, USAG cannot distinguish
its water and wastewater costs and therefore lacks adequate management information on
the performance of each part of the system. USAG also needs to arrange for establishing
the governing and auditing bodies required by the Company Law.
Operations and Maintenance
16.   USAG operates a water supply system that currently includes 300 km of water
pipelines and well fields of some 1 10 wells and pump stations, while the sewerage system
has an 80-km network that feeds into a wastewater treatment plant before discharge. In
addition, USAG/TANK provides water supply for the ger areas through 262 public water
kiosks, transporting water to the kiosks by water tanker trucks. Maintenance of all its
assets is very poor, comprising renovations, repairs and facility replacement carried out
only when absolutely necessary and often on an emergency basis. There are no specific
maintenance procedures, and many devices in the system do not work. The maintenance
budget is woefully insufficient.



-72 -                      ANNEX 5B
Financial and Accounting Statements
17.   The existing accounting system does not comply with international standards.
The system does not reflect costs related to each cost-generating center, and it is
impossible to determine whether or not the costs are reflected in water and wastewater
charges. Financial management is essentially limited to very basic budgeting without any
financial analysis. An asset revaluation system is virtually nonexistent.
Staffing
18.   USAG employs 1,074 people (including 442 in TANK). Considering the scope of
services provided by USAG, the company appears overstaffed. The typical efficiency
indicator for water supply and sewerage companies-i.e., the number of employees per
km of network operated-is very high for USAG: 632 persons for 380 km or 1.66
persons per km compared to a common standard of 0.45 staff per km. The wastewater
treatment plant, with 128 personnel, seems particularly overstaffed. USAG's managers
have technical, rather than financial and economics, training; only four managers have
university degrees in economics and no lawyer is on the staff.  Throughout the
organization, older staff predominate. Training is needed in all positions, especially in
advanced management techniques and up-to-date financial and accounting practices and
procedures for senior managers.
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING GOALS
19.   The main objective of USAG's institutional strengthening is to create an
enterprise capable of assuming greater autonomy in its operations and management, and
operating in a commercially-oriented environment.
20.   USAG's strengthening would be based on an institutional study prepared with
assistance from Australian consulting engineers, Sinclair Knight Merz, in July 1996. The
findings of the study, which included recommendations for USAG's reorganization and
improvement, were discussed with USAG's management during April 1997, and an
institutional action plan, incorporating modifications suggested by USAG, was confirmed
at that time.
USAG's DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN
21.   Regularization of Legal Status. The IDA Appraisal mission reviewed USAG's
existing Articles of Association and found them too general and not consistent with the
Upper Law. These Articles need further amendments to clarify: (a) the role of the Owner
and the Governing Board; (b) the legal responsibility, whether a limited liability company
or an State-owned enterprise; (c) procedure for establishing the Governing Board and
selecting its members, as well as its duties, powers and responsibilities; (d) procedures
and responsibility for tariff setting; and (e) USAG's authority to borrow funds from
domestic and international sources. The Municipality and USAG have agreed to revise
USAG's Articles prepared early May 1997 and to provide them to the Bank for further



- 73 -                     ANNEX5B
review and comment. Subsequently, after submission of the completed Application Form
approved by the State Property Agency, the Articles will be formally registered in the
State Register. Formal registration is expected to be completed by July 1, 1997. With
this, USAG will become a company with autonomy given through incorporation of its
Articles according to requirements of the Company Law.
22.   Organizational Restructuring. USAG's structure needs reorganization for two
main reasons:
*  The current outdated, inefficient organizational structure prevents efficient
operations and satisfactory financial and technical performance;
*  During and after implementation of the proposed project, new needs for water
services will arise, requiring additional capabilities in USAG.
* Within this context, USAG's internal reorganization would be implemented
gradually, in keeping with progress of the project's physical execution. The
following phased program for USAG's internal reorganization is
recommended.
Phase I: Separation of Water Supply and Wastewater Activities and Integration of the
TANK Company into USA G's Structure
23.   To distinguish water and wastewater expenditures in order to identify specific
costs and estimate appropriate water and sewer tariffs, the following change is
recommended:
* Transfer of sewer maintenance responsibility and activities without staff
transfer from USAG's Maintenance Department to a newly established
subdivision for this purpose in the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
24.   To integrate the TANK  company into USAG, the following steps are
recommended:
*  Incorporation of TANK staff for accounting, finance and personnel into
appropriate USAG divisions.
*  Incorporation of the kiosk maintenance division into USAG's new Building
Department dealing with all building structures.
*  Assumption  by USAG's existing Customer Services Department of
responsibility for collecting charges for ger area services formerly provided by
TANK and incorporation of kiosk operators into this Department.
25.   Phase I should begin immediately and be completed during the first six months of
project implementation.



- 74-                      ANNEX 5B
Phase 11: Reorganization during Implementation of the Project's Physical Investment
Program
26.   Implementation of the project's ger area water supply program and installation of
water meters in apartment blockhouses will create a need for additional services from
USAG. The new ger area water supply network will require maintenance, and the meters
installed in the apartment blockhouses as well as those in institutions, industry, CTPs will
require special maintenance services. The following changes for these purposes are
proposed:
*  Establishment of a Metering Department responsible for meter installation,
maintenance, replacement and calibration.
*  Strengthening of the Customer Services Department to handle meter reading,
billing, and collection, provision of demand forecasts for water supply
planning, dealing with customers' requests and complaints, and maintaining a
customer register by duureg, khoroo and plot. The project would provide
appropriate computer hardware, software and training for these purposes.
* Expansion of the Water Maintenance Department with operators responsible
for ger area water pipelines maintenance.
27.   This phase should begin during the second year of project implementation, in
combination with the physical installation of meters.
Phase III: AdditionalActivities
28.   USAG, as the company responsible for the municipal water and wastewater
system, should be responsible for all types of water-related activities. Therefore, it is
recommended that planning of water supply and sewerage investments as well as
supervision of investment implementation be transferred from the Municipality to USAG.
This would entail, in order of priority:.
.  Expansion of USAG's Technical Department with staff responsible for
mapping, establishment of quality standards, and assets evidence.
*  In the future, USAG may also need to establish additional departments
responsible for planning and execution of investments, preparation of small
construction works and some designs
This phase could be undertaken during or after project completion.
29.   With continued privatization of the Mongolian economy, privatization of the
water kiosks is may be envisioned. In this case, all kiosks and their operators would be
excluded from  USAG and become USAG's customers.  In addition, tank truck
privatization by leasing trucks to drivers would enable USAG to operate more efficiently,



- 75 -                      ANNEX5B
with fewer employees and equipment. USAG could then focus on its true business sector
activities.
Human Resources Management and Staff Allocation
30.   To address the human resource management and development issues related to
USAG's reorganization and overstaffing, the following actions are recommended:
Purpose                            Training Needs
Sewerage maintenance responsibilities, but no staff, to be    About 20 WWTP staff to
transferred from Pipeline Maintenance. Department to the   be trained in sewerage
now overstaffed Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP).   maintenance.
New Meter Maintenance Department to be established with  10 staff to be recruited
10 staff to handle meter installation, repair, calibration, and  from Water Supply
data retention and monitoring                        Maintenance Dept. and
appropriate technical
training provided.
Customer Services Dept. to be responsible for meter reading  15 staff to be trained.
(4 staff to be added), provision to Accounting Dept. of
customer information, and handling of customer requests and
complaints.
Number of working tank trucks to be decreased due to piped About 40 staff to be trained
distribution of water to ger areas. Old depreciated trucks to in new tasks.
be sold at auction. About 40 drivers and tank filling
operators to transfer to Water Supply Maintenance Dept. to
cover new service area and newly constructed kiosks.
31.   Attrition: A Solution to Overstaffing. USAG should address its overstaffing
problem by implementing a gradual, steady staff reduction program based on the
following assumptions:
* No extension of employment for those eligible for retirement.
* Release of workers not meeting performance standards for their positions.
* Release of staff not wishing to participate in the reorganization.
32.   During project appraisal USAG management agreed that staff would be reduced
in number from 1,074 presently to 956 by the end of project execution, and that further



-76-                      ANNEX5B
reductions would be considered. Currently hiring of new staff in proceeding to match
those going into retirement (54). Between now and 1999 retirees would not be replaced
by new recruiters, and staff employed could drop to 961 without any other release. A
tentative new organizational chart of USAG with the forecast number of staff by 2001 is
attached to this annex.
33.   Training of Personnel Department Staff. The Personnel Department should
undertake the following training, with one staff member made responsible for planning,
arranging and coordinating the training.
* Developing advanced techniques of human resources management geared to
staff selection for all positions based on a comparison of candidates'
qualifications and experience.
* Develop a public relations capability within USAG.
34.   Timing. Preparation of a detailed training program should begin immediately and
be completed by October 1, 1997. Thereafter, training would be provided in tandem with
the reorganization program.
Maintenance Development
35.   The maintenance budget should be increased over the 1996 budget in real terms
by 10 percent annually during the next five years. Thereafter, it should be maintained at a
level equivalent to the assets depreciation value. The maintenance fund to be established
would finance necessary equipment (e.g., pipe locators, plugs for closing off sewers,
sewer cleaning equipment, and meter calibration equipment). The proposed project
would finance technical assistance in maintenance and for development of a
comprehensive asset management program.
36.   Maintenance Department staff would receive training in the following areas:
*  Operation of water leakage detection equipment: 2 workers
*  Operation, installation, calibration and maintenance of water meters:  8
workers
*  Preparation of manuals giving detailed procedures for carrying out all
operations: 5 workers
*  Preparation of a comprehensive asset register for use in developing a routine
maintenance program: 2 persons
Financial and Accounting Development
37.  It is recommended that development of USAG's financial and accounting
capabilities cover the following activities:



- 77 -                    ANNEX SB
(a)   Separation of Water and Sewerage Costs. It is recommended that water
and sewerage operations be separated as soon as possible, and by
January 1, 1999, separate accounts should be kept for each operation in
order to identify the related costs and set the respective tariffs to cover
operating costs.  However, the costs of support and administration
departments, which do not belong to either water or sewerage, should be
handled by an internal system of charging the operating divisions in
proportion to their staff numbers.
(b)   Introduction of International Accounting System. Introduction of a
new accounting system in compliance with international accounting
standards should be completed by January 1, 1999. The accounting
system would allow a determination of real output and input costs related
to each unit. The proposed project would lay the basis for introducing the
new system by covering the cost of procuring appropriate computer
hardware and software and training 10 accounting staff.
(c)   Establishment of Financial Management System. Technical assistance
and training would be provided early in the project for developing a
comprehensive financial management system, including financial analysis
and projections, annual budgeting and control of income and expenditures.
38.  Introduction of Management Information System (MIS). An MIS system
should be developed for use at the highest management level, i.e., USAG's General
Manager and his deputies.
39.   USAG institutional operations would be monitored through the use of appropriate
reporting procedures. Under the above Technical Assistance programs, detailed reporting
procedures will be discussed with USAG and establish after its approval.
40.   The following approach is recommended for implementation: Departments and
subordinated divisions to the senior managers (Chief Engineer, Chief of Finance and
Administration, Chief of Supporting Activities) should be required to submit monthly
reports on their activities and responsibilities. The senior managers would synthesize
those reports and submit summaries to the General Director. Those summary reports, in
turn, should be reviewed, analyzed, and the General Director would prepare one final
report for submission to the Governing Board once a month. The Governing Board
should submit a revised report to the Auditor afterwards. The annual report prepared by
the General Director, approved by the Governing Board and reviewed by the Auditor,
would be presented to the Company Owner, the UB Municipality.
41.   The following monthly reports shall be submitted to the Chief Engineer, which is
responsible for maintenance:
(a)   Water Production Report prepared by the Production Department
including:



-78 -                     ANNEX5B
* water production (based on pumping hours and after CTP meters
installation - based on water measurements);
* energy consumption;
* indicator ratio: water production per energy consumption; and
* record of produced water quality in relation to standards.
(b)   Water Network Maintenance Report prepared by the Water Maintenance
Department including:
* number of water pipes breakage with specification of diameters, type
of pipe material and location;
* specification of other damages and their duration from notification to
the completion of repair;
- statement of water leakage detection; and
- statement of replacement of valves, fittings, pipes and other devices.
(c)   Wastewater Network Maintenance Report prepared by a subdivision of the
Wastewater Department including:
- number of sewer blockades with specification of diameters, type of
pipe material and location;
* statement of repaired or replaced manholes, chambers and sewer pipes;
and
* specification of other damages and their duration from notification to
completion of repair.
(d)   Wastewater Treatment Monthly Report prepared by the Wastewater
Department subdivision including:
* record of sewage inflow quantity and quality;
* record of sewage outflow quantity and quality related to standards;
* record of BOD5 load reduction;
* energy consumption;
* indicator ratio: capacity of treated sewage per energy consumption;
and



- 79 -                    ANNEX5B
* indicator ratio: BOD5 load reduction per energy consumption.
(e)   Tanker Supply Report prepared by the Tanker Department including:
* amount of water supplied to gers
* record of kilometers traveled
* fuel consumption
* indicator ratio: kilometers per fuel consumption
(f)   Maintenance Investment Report prepared by the Technical Department
including:
* Statement on progress of executed maintenance investment program
with detailed specification of each task and expenditures.
42.   The following monthly reports shall be submitted to the Chief of Finance and
Administration:
(a)   Financial Report prepared by the Finance Department with cooperation of
the Accounting Department including:
- pro-forma balance sheet
- income statement
- cash flow data
(b)   Billing and Collection Monthly Report prepared by the Consumer
Department including:
* water consumption
* total billings
* total receipts
* outstanding billing
* list of debtors
* collection efficiency
43.   The following monthly reports shall be submitted to the Chief of Supporting
Activities:



- 80 -                    ANNEX5B
(a)   Metering Maintenance Report prepared by the Metering Maintenance
Department, including:
* number of new installed water meters with specification of
dimensions;
* number of water meters replaced; and
* number of water meters calibrated with specification of dimension and
period since last calibration.
(b)   Storage Report prepared by the Material Supply Department, including:
* state of spare parts according to maintenance needs; and
* store statement with specification of assortment of spare stored over
two months.
(c)   State of Heavy Equipment, Vehicles and Building Report prepared by the
Mechanical, and the Building Department including:
. condition of heavy equipment and vehicles with specification of
number of worked hours relation to norms and cost of repairs; and
c condition of buildings with specification of repairing expenditure.
44.   Based on monthly progress reports and after analysis of the past performance and
tendencies, prospective plans for the next year would then be prepared by each
October 15. The most significant are the following:
* water consumption plan; and
* financial plan including budgeting and financial projections
maintenance plan.
Overall Staff Training Proposal
45.   The above suggestions are summarized in a proposed training program (see
Attachment), which would extend from January 1998 to December 1999.



-81-                                      ANNEX5B
USAG STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
Positions of     Participant    Training Subject Matter              Duration     Remarks
Participants     Numbers.
A. HIGH-LEVEL MANAGEMENT
General Manager, 2              Advanced management procedures, pre-  2 x 2-week   Training by foreign consultants: 2
Financial Director              paration of business plans, monitoring of workshops   weeks. in Mongolia and 2 weeks.
operating organizations, use of manage-  + 3 months of abroad
ment information systems             assistance    3 months MIS practice
General Manager, 3              Modem water supply system manage-    2 x 2-week   Training provided by foreign
Chief Engineer,                 ment and operational methods, project   workshops   consultants; 2 weeks. in Mongolial2
Chief of Support                management and contract supervision               weeks. abroad
Activities
B. MIDDLE-LEVEL MANAGEMENT
Financial Director, 5 +         Financial management (financial analy-  3 x l-week   Training provided by foreign
Chief of Financial 10 Accounting sis, financial projections, annual budget- workshops; 6 consultants in Mongolia
Dept and Deputy, Dept. staff for  ing, control of income and expenditure),  months of
Chief Accountant computer skills intemational accounting system; asset   assistance
and Deputy                      management (preparing asset register,
asset management system), training for
introduction of new computer system
Chief of Personnel 4            Human resources management, develop- 2 weeks      Foreign consultants in Mongolia
Dept and Deputy                 ment of public relations programs
plus two others
Chief of Customer 15            Modem marketing and consumer relation 2 weeks     Foreign consultants in Mongolia
Services Dept, the             techniques, training and implementation  + 6 months
Deputy and billing              of computerized billing and collection    assistance
& collection staff
C. MIDDLE AND LOW LEVEL TECHNICAL STAFF
Chief of Metering  10           Installation, repair, calibration procedures 2 weeks  Local consultants
Dept and all staff              for metering program
Chief of         30             Repair and maintenance of new pipelines 2 weeks   Local consultants
Maintenance Dept                made from different materials (insulated
and some workers                pipes)
Workers expected 50             Hydraulics, construction theory and  1 year each   Local consultants + USAG specialist
to need retraining              practical skills
Staff from various 20           Basic training on Microsoft Windows,    I week in    Local consultant
departments                     DOS, EXCEL, WORD                     total
dealing with
computers



- 82 -                                  ANNEX5B
PROPOSED USAG ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
GOVERNING
BOARD
DIRECTOR
ChilefEngineer    |         ___Chief Support Activities                   Chief of Financial
2|                   m   0             t   ~~~~~~~~~~Administmtion 7
Production Deoartment            IMechanicaiDeoartment                    Finance Department
Head Office                          Heavy Equipment  I6e                 Planning
Water Supply Stations! -    .        Workshop                             Budget    -._I
A,B,C,D                              Vehicles,TANK                        Tarrifs
Laboratory                           Trucks                               Financial Reporting
Meter Maintenance             -i Accountina Department
Water Mainenance                     Diision           1                  Payments         i|:
Department                           Meter Installers                     Receivables
Meter Repair       '10Coupon Sellers 
Head Office                          Meter Calibration
Repair Gangs                         Meter Evidence & Control
Airport Group             ,ontol                       Personnel  Deoartment
Bio-plant Group   'Material SupDIv                                        Records
Bayangol Sector                     'Department                           Payroll
Ger Area 3 Sectors  90               Purchasing Store   , .               Staff Welfare
Leakage Control                     !___Prchaing_Sore     _               Training
Public Relations
b~ Wastewater Deoartment       --+ Building DeDartment
Plant              ____             All Building Mtc.
Plant                              ], Repair Personnel    1        | I   Administration
Sewer Maintenance~                   Electric, Plumbing  r-               Keepers
Laboratory                           Heating                              Guards           F§P
(quality Control)    1                                                  Cleaners
Quality Control   l .                                                                      r 26
Inspector                                                                                 I
Tanker SuDDIY DeDartment                                                  Consumer Department
Planning Water Supply
Repair Workers                                                            Reading
Register           _                                  _                   Billing
IDrivers        *X   I          r---                     _,30  I.Collecting
TANK Filling Station             I Additional New Duties     1Kiosk Operators (350)
I  Planning New investment               C Customer Service
I Supervising Investment    I
Designing Construction   I
Tecinica Department                Small Works       30                   Computer Oerations
Assets Keeper                         . ......
Quality Standards    ]                                                                        2
Mapping
current employment
x j employment by year 2003



- 83 -                     ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TERMS OF
REFERENCE
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF USAG-TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The Government of Mongolia has applied to the International Development
Association (IDA) for a Credit amounting to $16.1 million, which is to be onlent to the
Water and Sewerage Management Company in Ulaanbaatar (USAG) to support its piped
connection of water supply to the Ger area kiosks and to improve the efficiency of its
water distribution network and tariff charging system. USAG intends to apply part of
these proceeds to develop its institutional capacity, particularly in the area of financial
and accounting system, management information system (MIS), asset management
program, billing and collection procedures, and technical training required to enhance the
skills of staff to meet the new demands envisaged in Institutional Development Action
Program. Special Technical Assistance (TA) is to be provided under this IDA Project to
help USAG to achieve these purposes.
2.    Despite its incorporation under 1991 Company Law, USAG has been working as
an operating arm of the municipality for daily operation and maintenance of water and
sewerage, lacking incentives as well as adequate organizational structures and authorities
as an efficient public utility. Under the Project, however, it is to be formally reorganized
under the 1995 Company Law with an adequate structure and authorities to ensure more
financial and operational autonomy to provide incentives for improving efficiency and to
define clear accountability. A detailed time-bound action program of institutional change
was agreed and to be implemented. To enhance the efficiency of the USAG through
institutional restructuring, however, MIS supported by a proper accounting and financial
management system needs to be put in place.
3.    Despite a recent government decree to require companies to adopt IAS principles,
USAG has yet to convert its old system to a new one consistent with IAS. Expected
change in billing and collection system and the separation of accounts between water
supply and sewerage operation also calls for corresponding changes. Newly added
unction of planning, budgeting, and design will also require a proper management
information system. In addition, development of a comprehensive system to define,
measure and monitor performances of various units and levels of management is a
prerequisite to an efficient organization. The TA will support the development of an
adequate MIS supported by financial and accounting software and procedures consistent
with IAS and new organizational mandate to improve efficiency of USAG.'



- 84 -                    ANNEX6
4.    Although a detailed action program for institutional development focusing on
streamlining organizational structure and redeployment of staff was agreed to be phased
into during the project implementation, a strong technical training program to arm
USAG's staff with required skills and expertise is essential to gamer the efficiency of the
USAG. Moreover, the agreed action program as well as identified training program also
would require some adjustments to meet the demands of changing circumstances as well
as to coordinate with the new MIS system. This would require a component of TA,
specifically addressing training and other supports for organizational change.
Objectives
5.    The objective of the TA is to enhance the efficiency of USAG by providing
USAG with a MIS backed up by computerized financial management and accounting
system that will enable planning, budgeting, control and performance monitoring, and
with technical training to improve technical competence of staff to help ensure the
smooth implementation of Action Program of Institutional Development. As such, the
TA will:
(a)   Develop/purchase and install computerized MIS backed up be a modem
financial, accounting and information systems and procedures in the
USAG; and
(b)   Train various levels of USAG's management and staff in the use of the
designed systems and procedures as well as other technical training
identified in the Action Program of Institutional Development.
Scope of Works
6.    Detailed scope of works are as follows:
(a)   Review the Institutional Development and Financial Aspects reports by
Sinclair Knight Merz and Staff Appraisal Report by IDA and other
relevant background reports;
(b)   Design and implement conversion to the new accounting system with
supporting rules and procedures to be consistent with IAS: This will
involve the establishment of basic ledger subsystem that includes, but is
not limited to, general ledger, accounts receivable, inventory, salaries, and
fixed assets, as well as setting up of cost centers and the cost accounting
system that enables separation of the cost between water supply and
sewerage operation;
(c)   Review the existing computer hardware and software and based on the
identified system requirement, help procure and install the required
hardware and software;



- 85 -                    ANNEX6
(d)   Review  and refine the current reporting system, define required
management and financial reports, particularly in view of the budgeting
and planning function, and help develop/purchase a financial management
system to generate required financial data and reports and five-year
financial projections supported by computerized software as appropriate;
(e)   Integrate the billing and collection subsystem to be developed by meter
installation company into the USAG's general MIS;
(f)   Integrate the maintenance program to be developed under a separate TA
into the USAG's general MIS;
(g)   Develop a comprehensive performance indicators to be used to measure
the performance of various units and level of management as well as
USAG as a whole and recommend the five-year targets reflecting the
current and planned institutional capacities;
(h)   Transfer the expertise in utilizing management information system,
accounting and financial software as well as accompanies procedures and
practices through on-the-job training and other venues based on the
detailed technology transfer program;
(i)   Review and adjust, if warranted, the Action Program for Institutional
Development and support the phase-in of Action Program; and
(j)    Review the training program identified under the Action Program for
Institutional Development and help carry out the agreed training program;
Timing and Budget
7.    The TA will require the services of a team of consultants with expertise in
financial management, accounting, MIS, and institutional development and organization
of training. A total of 16 person-months of international consultant input and 13 person-
months of domestic consultant services will expected. Total budget is estimated to be
$500,000 including contingencies. It is expected that the whole training program and
implementation assistance will start in January 1998 and will be finished in December
1999. The program will be carried out in phases as agreed with USAG.
8.    The IDA Credit includes funds for the purchase of equipment (e.g., computer
hardware and software) necessary for the implementation of financial management and
MIS. The equipment will be purchased by the consultant on behalf on USAG, and in
accordance with the IDA's procurement guidelines. The equipment will be left with
USAG upon the completion of the program.



- 86 -                     ANNEX6
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTs-TERMS OF
REFERENCE
Introduction
9.    Water Distribution System. The Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB), Outer
Mongolia is about to commence implementation of an IDA-assisted Urban Services
Project, which includes improvements to Ulaanbaatar city's urban water distribution
system, a major change in the system for supplying water to 12 ger areas (population
169,400), from truck tanker supply to water-dispensing kiosks, to piped supply to
existing (280) and additional kiosks and the development of a ring main and reservoir
system to increase system reliability and efficiency and reduce excessive costs of
maintaining pressure by pumping.
10.   Ger areas are largely unserviced housing areas on the fringes of the city, housing
about 50 percent of UB's population in a mixture of traditional Mongolian tents (the ger),
wooden frame and some masonry structures.
11.   Ger Upgrading.  In addition, the project would provide for upgrading
infrastructure in five of the ger areas that would be obtaining piped water supply. The
infrastructure would include roads and paths, stormwater drainage and bathhouses and
washing facilities. The roads and path in particular have been selected to improve access
water kiosks by ger residents. The stormwater drainage projects aim at alleviating
flooding, erosion and loss of lives and property in the worst-affected ger areas in UB.
12.   Metering. All of UB's residential premises, particularly formal housing in
publicly-owned apartment buildings, and many institutional and industrial premises have
no water meters. Consumers have mainly been charged on the basis of per capita and
other "norms," instead of the quantity of water consumed, with the result that USAG is
earning revenue on less than 50 percent of its bulk water production and water wastage is
very high. A key component of the project would provide for the procurement and
installation, over the first three years of the project, of about 14,000 hot and cold water
meters in about 2,620 apartment blocks (not individual apartment units) and currently
unmetered institutional premises.
13.   Fixture Repairs and Replacements. Also, to assist residential consumers to
reduce water wastage, particularly when they are charged under the project on a
volumetric rather than normative basis, the project would fund an apartment fixture (taps
and toilets) repair and replacement program. USAG would bear the costs of the fixtures
and existing MUB housing management and maintenance organizations-the kantors-
would repair and install the fixtures.
14.   Modest provisions for rehabilitating critical elements of the wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal system are also included in the project.



- 87 -                    ANNEX6
Organizational Arrangements for Project Implementation.
15.   The water supply component of the Project would be implemented by the Water
Facilities Exploitation Department Of Ulaanbaatar City (USAG), a wholly MUB-owned
service operations and maintenance department, which is being converted legally,
institutionally and technically into a commercially-oriented Municipal Company owned
by MUB. The ger infrastructure upgrading component would be implemented by MUB's
Department of Architecture, Planning and Building and MUB Districts (Duuregs) and
subdistricts (Khoroos). With the assistance of international consultants, the project has
been prepared by a Project Preparation Group, headed by a Project Director from MUB's
Department of Architecture and Building and composed of staff from various MUB
Departments-including MUB's Departments of Construction, Architecture and Building
and Finance and Planning-the Ministry of Infrastructure Development and USAG. For
project implementation and management, MUB would establish and maintain a Project
Management Unit (PMU), composed of people deputized from the same agencies that
prepared and staffed the Project Preparation Group. The PMU would be responsible to
the MUB Deputy City Manager, through the Chief of the Department of Strategic Policy
and Planning, which has been assigned direct responsibility for overall Project
implementation.
16.   Local consultants would be separately recruited and employed to assist the PMU
in project management and implementation. These local consultants would work with the
international consultants from whom MUB seeks assistance under these Terms of
Reference and who would work with the PMU.
17.  International and local consultants will also be recruited under the project (with
separate Terms of Reference) to provide technical assistance to USAG for institutional
development, training, financial management, and development of programs for
maintenance improvements. In addition, the project would finance (under provisions
separate from this Terms of Reference) development of and training in the
computerization of USAG's billing and collection system for metered supplies.
18.   MUB wish to appoint a suitably qualified international firm to act as Project
Implementation and Management Consultant ("the Consultant") to assist the PMU and
the implementing agencies with implementation management.
19.  In view of the substantial number of contracts to be let under the Project, the need
to prepare designs and bid documents for the second through fifth years of the project,
and MUB's very limited experience in managing an IDA-financed project, MUB wishes
to develop standardized procedures for the review of detailed designs, specifications and
bills of quantities, the prequalification of contractors, preparation of contract
documentation, the evaluation and award of contracts and to establish an appropriate
system to manage and monitor project implementation.



- 88 -                     ANNEX6
Scope of Work
20.   The Consultant will assist MUB to:
(a)   review detailed designs and technical specifications, where necessary, for
all project components;
(b)   prepare ICB and NCB bid documents, satisfactory to MUB and IDA on
the basis of the model documents prepared for first-year projects during
project preparation;
(c)   prequalify and postqualify bidders and identify potential suppliers;
(d)   establish standard tendering and bid evaluation procedures to conform to
IDA procurement guidelines and principles;
(e)   establish contract implementation, procurement and engineering quality
control criteria and procedures for monitoring; and
(f)   implement a construction and equipment installation management system
for civil works and equipment-particularly with regard to the meter
installation and fixture repair and replacement programs.
21.   Bid Documents. During finalization of bid documents, the Consultant will
review engineering designs, specifications and other relevant documentation to ensure
that they conform to good design practice and to IDA guidelines and particularly that cold
climate technical requirements are being adequately met. Bid documents will be subject
to review by IDA.
22.   Review of Technical Specifications.  Standard technical specifications are
available for many items, but there will be cases where modifications or additions may be
appropriate. Where necessary, the consultant will assist MUB to draft revisions or
additions for inclusion in the relevant bid documents.
23.   Pre- and  Postqualification.   Where contractor prequalification  and/or
postqualification is required, the Consultant will assist MUB to advertise for potential
contractors to prequalify, to evaluate prequalification and postqualification submissions
and to establish shortlists for bidding.
24.   Tendering and Bid Evaluation. The Consultant will assist MUB to establish
and administer standard procedures for competitive bidding and award in accordance with
IDA Guidelines and project agreements in relation to International and National
Competitive Bidding (ICB and NCB) and for International and National Shopping. The
Consultant will advise on relevant international and local suppliers where appropriate.
25.   Quality Control. MUB and IDA wish to ensure that civil works and equipment
installations implemented under the Project are of a high standard and will therefore



- 89 -                     ANNEX6
require guidance from the Consultant in establishing appropriate quality monitoring and
reporting procedures.
26.   Construction Management System. The Consultant will assist the Municipality
to establish an information system to manage contracts and monitor implementation
progress, including monitoring expenditure and time required for contract(s)
implementation, payments to contractors and applications for withdrawal of IDA funds.
The system should be designed to identify problems at an early stage and to provide
project progress information for the MUB and the IDA at regular intervals.
27.   Institutional. The Consultant will assist MUB to prepare periodic progress
reports for Government and IDA, consolidating the progress on project components
implemented by MUB and USAG. The consultant will also assist MUB to monitor
compliance with the Credit Covenants, Project Action Plans, provisions for audits and
accounts, and financial and other project performance targets.
28.   In-City Training Seminars. The Consultant will conduct at least one in-city
training seminar in the city during the period of the consultancy contract. These seminars
would be expected to extend over a period of about 15 days and would be attended by
selected personnel from the city. The seminars would address topics of relevance to the
city, including specification and design, prequalification, bidding, evaluation and award
of contracts, contract management and supervision, quality control, saLety procedures,
operations and maintenance. Additionally, the Consultant would address topics of
specific relevance such as cold climate utilities design and construction.
Consultant Team
29.   The consultant will be expected to provide intermittent technical assistance to
MUB over a period of two to three years commencing, if possible, late 1997. During the
initial stages, frequent advice is likely to be needed. Subsequently, once standard
procedures and working methods have been established, the need for technical advice and
the frequency of visits will reduce.
30.  In view of the need for frequent, short visits, the Consultant may wish to work
from a regional office within Mongolia or China, which is near Outer Mongolia. In any
event, the Consultant should arrange good communication facilities between their office,
the Municipality and IDA in Washington.
31.   The Consultant will provide about 32 person-months of professional staff input,
approximately 18 months in year 1, 10 months in years 2, and 4 months in year 3, and
will appoint a Senior Project Management Advisor/Team Leader as prime representative
(table annexed). The Team Leader will be a senior Municipal services engineer, with
substantial water and sewerage experience, having appropriate regional experience and
familiarity with IDA procedures and procurement guidelines.



-90 -                      ANNEX6
32.   The Consultant will be fully responsible for the provision of the necessary skills
within the teamn. The Consultant's staff will be expected to be appropriately qualified and
to have experience in Mongolia or elsewhere in the region in the following technical
fields:
(a)   IDA procurement procedures for civil works and equipment;
(b)   contract management and supervision;
(c)   quality control for civil works; and
(d)   municipal  engineering,  including  the  design,  construction  and
management of water supply and distribution pipelines, pumping stations
and systems, the design, operation, management and monitoring of sewage
treatment plants and the design and construction of roads and storm
drainage systems.
Schedule and Reporting
33.   The technical assistance to be provided under these Terms of Reference will
commence as soon as possible and will continue for a period of two to three years.
34.   The Consultant will submit brief, monthly reports during the first full year of the
contract and quarterly reports during subsequent years summarizing progress achieved,
difficulties encountered and issues to be resolved.  Six copies of each report (in
Mongolian) will be sent to MUB and three copies (in English) to IDA in Washington.
Where the Consultant assists materially in the modification or preparation of designs,
specifications or other relevant documents, the Consultant will send three copies to IDA,
for information only.
Materials, Data and Support Services
35.   The Consultant, when providing technical assistance, will work in the offices of
MUB who will provide appropriately furnished office accommodation at no cost to the
Consultant. All available data, and mapping will be provided at no cost to the
Consultant.
36.   The costs of computers and related office equipment and software, vehicles and
office support and interpreters should be included in consultants' proposals and are
estimated in the table attached. These costs would be in addition to the computers and
related office equipment and software and vehicles that are already available in the
Project office and that would be made available by MUB to the consultants from whom
assistance is being sought under these Terms of Reference.
37.   MUB will provide appropriate counterpart and support staff to work with the
Consultant, and will arrange introductions to other agencies as required.



-91-                       ANNEX6
38.   The Consultant will bear all payroll costs of its staff, plus all costs incurred by its
staff in connection with international travel, accommodation and subsistence.
39.   The Consultant will be reimbursed, at cost, for any expenses reasonably incurred
in connection with telecommunications, courier services and printing, and local travel
related to the provision of these consultancy services.
ESTIMATED PERSON-MONTHS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR PROJECT
MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Description of Activity/Item                    Total Units    Total Cost
(Person-months)    ($)
1 Project Management. Advisor                         14.0
2 Cold Climate Utilities Construction Expert           3.5
3 Water Supply Construction Expert                     6.0
4 Civil Works (Ger upgrading) Construction Advisor     4.0
5 Finance and Accounts Expert                          4.5
Subtotal                                         32.0
6 Computers and Related Equipment                                  25,000
7 Vehicles                                                         25,000
8 Office Support and Interpreters                     30.0         45,000
Subtotal                                                      95,000
C. MAINTENANCE DEVELOPMENT OF USAGE-TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
40.   The Government of Mongolia has applied to the International Development
Association (IDA) for a Credit amounting to $16.1 million which is to be onlent to the
Water and Wastewater Company USAG in Ulaanbaatar to support program of
investments to improve and expand its water and wastewater services. An equally
important part of the project is an institutional development of USAG including
maintenance improvement component. For this purpose a technical assistance of a
specialist-consultant is to be provided to help USAG in developing and implementing a
proper maintenance techniques and procedures.
41.   Under 1991 Public Enterprise Law, USAG as hitherto existing a municipality arm
is predicted to be converted into a limited liability company with the Municipality of UB



- 92 -                    ANNEX6
as the Owner. With such given autonomy, USAG is expected to operate more efficiently
during and after implementation of the institutional strengthening program.
42.   USAG operates a water supply system that currently includes 300 km of water
pipelines and well fields of some 110 wells and pump stations, while the sewerage system
has an 80 km network that feeds into a wastewater treatment plant before discharge. In
addition, USAG provides water supply for the ger areas through 262 public water kiosks,
receiving water from a fleet of about 50 water tanker trucks.
43.   Due to the insufficient tariff increases authorized by the Municipality in the past,
USAG has lacked adequate revenue to carry out system maintenance. It currently has no
regular maintenance procedures, and maintenance is usually performed only when
absolutely necessary. Now, with the revenues expected from a substantial tariff increase
in October 1996, the budged for maintenance will be increased by 10 percent annually in
real terms and should become available for a much stepped-up maintenance program.
According to this budget agreed with IDA and kept over the project years 1998-2001, all
maintenance expenditure shall be covered.
Objectives
44.   The main objective of this consultant assignment is to assist USAG in planning,
designing and introducing more efficient maintenance procedures to enhance USAG
capability and efficiency, to improve quality of provided services, and to maintain the
value of its own assets. The TA will be accompanied by training of USAG staff.
Scope of Works
45.   Assessment of Existing Situation. As a basis for any decision making, a good
understanding of the present condition of the water and sewage network, treatment
stations, reservoirs, buildings and other tangible assets is essential. Therefore, the
program should begin with the survey of physical condition of those facilities and the
record of their life (repairing, replacement, modernization). Available information,
including maps, damages record and statistics, a kind of material and an age of pipelines
will be very useful.
46.   As a second step, the review of the current maintenance procedures, including
planning, reporting, execution, technical quality standards, status of spare parts and a
survey of the existing maintenance equipment, should be done.
47.  In carrying out these assessments, a thorough analysis of the information already
available to USAG should be done. Further field examinations, analysis and presentation
of information would be carried out in accordance with a plan of action agreed with
USAG.
48.   Elaboration of Prioritized Maintenance Plan. Information gained during the
preliminary assessment (noted in above paragraphs) will be used to identify and analyze



- 93 -                    ANNEX6
investment interventions needed as a priority. This will involve the list of actions
including repairing or replacement of facilities and renewing buildings. Special emphasis
should be given to the identification of win-win solution. For instance, the replacement
of existing pumps with more energy efficient ones, or the replacement of old corroded
pipes may reduce water contamination and water leakage.  The prepared list of
maintenance investment should be ranked in accordance with definition of priorities.
49.   Preparation of Detailed Annual Maintenance Plans.  Based on prepared
prioritized maintenance plan described above, the Consultant should assist USAG in
preparing specific annual maintenance plans based on available budget, which has to be
submitted to the Governing Board by October 15 of each year, except for 1998 when it
would be by March 15, 1998. The first year plan may need to focus on simple tasks
enhancing the work enviromnent.
50.   Developing Suitable Maintenance Procedures. The Consultant shall assist
USAG in developing a routine maintenance procedure based on:
* analysis of age, depreciation value and technical quality standard of existing
facilities (network, buildings, equipment)
a analysis of past record of damages and its statistic
* cost estimation of maintenance activity including investment
51.   After finishing the TA program provided by the Consultant, USAG staff should
be able to manage the routine maintenance procedure including the following tasks:
n preparation of annual maintenance plans, including ranking in accordance with
definition of priorities and pricing with using software tools
* operating with advance maintenance equipment for leakage detection, water
meters calibration and installation, sewer cleaning equipment operation
* planning water network areas designated for day to day investigation due to
water leakage prevention
* preparation bidding procedures for goods purchasing
* preparing and defining inventory listing for store of spares
* preparing reports on day-to-day maintenance
52.   Implementation Assistance.  The Consultant will assist USAG  in the
implementation of the up-to-date maintenance techniques including:
* implementation of high quality standard materials, fittings and devices



-94 -                     ANNEX6
* implementation of modern repairing technologies
* implementation of advance method of daily routine maintenance activities
(water leakage detection)
The "Coaching" Role of the Consultant
53.   The main role of the Consultant will be to provide organization, know how
guidance and general facilitation of maintenance work is done day-to-day by USAG staff.
All Maintenance Department staff subordinated to the Chief Engineer are expected to be
fiully involved for successful final result of this job training. A contract agreement for the
consultant services should carefully define counterpart input and involvement in to this
project for assuring its prospective expected benefits.
54.   The Consultant may also assist in defining and acquiring special equipment (pipe
locators, plugs for closing off sewers, sewer cleaning equipment , meter calibration
equipment ) to be paid under IDA funding.
Qualification of the Consultant
55.   The Consultant should be experienced in maintenance procedure and asset
management and should fulfill the following conditions:
* work in a Public Utility for at least 10 years ( a recently retired person would
be acceptable);
 experience in maintenance workshop;
* education: technician or engineer; and
* Russian language would be a definite plus.
Timing and Budget
56.   The TA will require the services of a Consultant with a total of 9 man-months of
foreign consultant  input.  Total budget is estimated to be $150,000 including
contingencies for a study tour to a public utility for three people of the maintenance
department. It is expected, that whole training program and implementation assistance
will start since January 1998 and will be finished in December 2000. The detailed
program will be agreed with USAG after completion of the phase on the existing
situation phase.
Schedule and Reporting
57.   The technical assistance is to be provided under this TOR during a period of 3
years. Inputs are expected to be heavier at the beginning of the assignment, tapering off



- 95 -                    ANNEX6
as the USAG maintenance department staff takes over the responsibility for preparing and
implementing yearly maintenance schedules.
58.   The Consultant will submit brief reports after each visits in USAG according to
his agreed schedule of work. Reports prepared in the English language will summarize:
(a) progress achieved; (b) difficulties encountered; (c) action expected by USAG services;
and (d) issues to be resolved. Six copies of each report (prepared in Mongolian by the
PMU) will be dispatched to USAG (4 copies to the General Manager and his Deputies,
two to the members of the Board) and two copies (in English) to IDA in Washington.
Materials, Data and Support Services
59.   The Consultant, when providing technical assistance, will work in the offices of
the USAG Maintenance Departments and will be provided with sufficient furnished
office accommodation at no cost to the Consultant. USAG commits itself to provide all
necessary and available data at no cost to the Consultant.
60.   Computers and related office equipment, software and vehicles, which are already
available in the PMU office, would be also made available to the Consultant.
61.   The PMU will provide appropriate support staff to work with the Consultant
(especially interpreters), and will arrange introductions to other agencies if required.
62.   Under the Contract Agreement for consultant services, the Consultant's
remuneration will cover all payment costs plus all costs in connection with international
travel, accommodation and subsistence.
63.   The Consultant will be reimbursed, at cost, for any expenses reasonably incurred
in connection with telecommunications, courier services and printing, and local travel
related to the provision of these consultancy services.
D. AN URBAN MANAGEMENT AND GER/CITY DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AND
STRATEGY STUDY-TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
64.   The current Master Plan was prepared in 1986, before the massive changes in
Mongolia's political and economic situation forced the curtailment of the apartment
building program. In the longer run, the inefficient, current Ger layout in long lanes and
large (400-700 m 2) plots, without reservations for community open space and facilities,
or a functional road hierarchy, will need to be redeveloped or reshaped, at least in some
areas.
65.   The Master Plan needs to be revised to incorporate the current situation, in which
the majority of the Ger areas are likely to develop into permanent residential areas. The
form of tenure to be provided to Ger residents under the ongoing (in 1997) program to



- 96 -                      ANNEX6
privatize housing and land should take into account future needs to restructure the
infrastructure, reassemble or redefine the allowed land use on a plot or plots in a more
efficient configuration, which will also be sensitive to constraints on the availability of
funds for infrastructure investments and the affordability of services and plots to existing
and future ger residents, particularly in low-income groups.
66.   The apartment housing estates are clustered near the city center or along the main
roads of UB and are relatively well-served by public transport-the favored mode up to
1990. (Private car use and ownership has been growing rapidly since then.) The
apartment units have individual cold and hot water, toilets and bathrooms, conventional
piped sewage collection, on-site and off-site underground, piped stormwater drainage,
electricity and hot water heating and lifts in higher buildings. USAG provides the cold
water for hot and cold water supply in apartments. The hot water is generated in CTPs in
the housing sites. Heating hot water and electricity for the apartments (and institutional
buildings) are generated in central city plants serving the whole city. Apartment rents
and utility charges have until recently been heavily subsidized.
67.   Due to economic and political changes following the withdrawal of the FSU,
apartment building in the public sector has practically ceased and the small amount of
private construction is focused on higher-income housing. UB's housing future for the
majority of the population appears to lie in Ger area development.
68.   The existing Ger area are mostly on the outlying hills and valleys to the north,
northwest and northeast of UB and 2-12 kilometers from UB's economic activity.
69.   Families interested in obtaining a Ger plot apply to local Khoroo offices (city
subdistricts, the smallest unit of city administration). Plots of 300-500 m are located and
staked out by a city surveyor. Most new residents obtain plots this way, although there is
an increasingly active city real estate market. Only 10 percent of the plots are estimated
to be occupied by unregistered settlers.
70.   As all land was owned by government and the semidesert land is open,
uncultivated, though hilly and sometimes deeply-ravined, it is amenable to rapid Ger
development with few legal or natural constraints-except for water supply and possibly
heating fuel.
71.   Ger are laid out in simple, relatively long and narrow, rectilinear plots with long,
wide public rights-of-way between rows of plots. Plot-holders construct wooden fences
around their plots and have constructed a mixture of Ger (a circular, demountable wooden
tent with a felt and canvas cover), wooden frame and masonry structures. Because of
large plot sizes and the configuration of the infrastructure, Ger densities of 110/ha (with
extremes of 45 and 200 in the selected areas) are quite low. On the other hand, the
existing layouts lack provisions for cornmunity services and a structure that is amenable
to cost-effective, affordable and higher-density future development.



-97-                       ANNEX6
72.   Thus, a Study is needed of the financial, planning, land use and management tools
and costs and a strategy for Ger redevelopment/reshaping in an efficient, manageable,
equitable and affordable manner-an Urban Management And Ger/City Development
Planning and Strategy Study.
Urban Planning and Management Issues
73.   The key issues to be addressed in the Study, which would be with particular
reference to Ger areas in Ulaanbaatar City, and which are within the Scope of Work of
this Study are discussed below.
74.   Guidance Regarding Ger/City Redevelopment/Reshaping and Expansion.
The issues to be addressed in the Study, are:
(a)   the costs and benefits to households and the city of densification versus
expansion to meet city development and growth requirements;
(b)   the direction(s) of growth and location of services with regard to natural
constraints and sensitivities (e.g., permafrost, aquifers, water pressure) and
realistic availability of financial resources for service investments,
operations and maintenance;
(c)   open space/recreation requirements and the affordability of housing and
settlements, particularly to lower-income households; and
(d)   practical and effective instruments to guide growth, including assessment
of government's capacity and instruments for guiding/regulating land use
and development and managing the location, standards and costs of roads,
water supply, electricity supply, industrial estates, markets, transport and
other infrastructure.
75.   Management and Provisions for City Services (not covered adequately by other
contemporary studies, such as water supply and distribution). These would include
analysis and recommendations regarding:
(a)   transport infrastructure (railroads, roads, bridges, foot/cycle paths;)
(b)   transport modes (train, tram, bus, paratransit, auto, cycle, walk);
(c)   drainage;
(d)   sanitation;
(e)   health and education services; and
(f)   community and recreation services.



-98 -                      ANNEX6
76.   Institutional  Requirements.    These  would  include  analysis  and
recommendations regarding:
(a)   responsibilities for services (central/local government, pubic or private
sector);
(b)   legal and regulatory environment for managing land development and
urban services;
(c)   intersectoral coordination, planning and budgeting;
(d)   performance monitoring and public disclosure; and
(e)   stakeholder participation in planning and management
77.   The System and Base for Financing Urban Services. This would include
analysis and recommendations regarding:
(a)   central, local government and private responsibilities for investment and
operations and maintenance of specific urban services;
(b)   expenditure requirements and revenue base for specific services;
(c)   municipal tax and revenue base and potential for expanding the tax base
from, inter alia, businesses, entertainment and property development and
sales transactions (real estate);
(d)   central government grants and loans system for local services; and
(e)   municipal accounting and financial management.
Objectives
78.   The objectives of the Study, with special reference to new and existing ger and
development areas are:
(a)   to develop physical, institutional and financial strategies and mechanisms
to guide UB's future development, particularly in existing and new Ger
areas, with a view to the affordability of land to lower-income groups;
(b)   to strengthen the capabilities of UB's municipality, community and private
sectors to plan and manage the city on an ongoing basis.
Scope of Work
79.   The scope of work would be organized under three heads:
(a)   Growth Strategy and Services Planning;



-99 -                       ANNEX6
(b)   Legal and Institutional Strengthening; and
(c)   Financial Management Planning.
80.   The Study will be largely based on existing information/data, much of which is
available from project feasibility and engineering studies, during Phases 1 and 2, for the
USIP. "Urban services" for the purpose of the Study refers to all infrastructure and
equipment in UB, including railroads, roads and bridges, foot/cycle paths, drainage,
sewerage, sanitation, water supply and solid waste management, excluding detailed
analyses of gas, coal and electricity, which are provided by parastatal or companies.
Social services to be included in the Study are: health, education, community facilities,
recreation, police and fire services and government.
81.   Where appropriate, the Study will distinguish between: (a) investment in physical
facilities; (b) their operation and maintenance costs (O&M); (c) investment and operating
costs of social services and solid waste management; and (d) administration of
government. MUB considers that analysis of water supply and solid waste will not need
to be undertaken under the Study since these sectors have been analyzed during the
preparation of the USIP. However, related policies, plans and financing arrangements for
these sectors should be included in the Study's strategic plan and the Study's institutional
and financial proposals.
82.   The scope of work would be organized under three heads, with their associated
tasks, as follows:
(a)    Growth Strategy and Services Planning. This Study activity would
involve:
(i)   analyzing the economic and demographic base and trends in the
UB region in yearly increments over the next 20 years;
(ii)    preparing prototype layouts of existing and proposed new Ger
areas including social, health, education and local commercial
facilities, with alternative levels of service for access (roads and
footpaths, water supply and sanitation and alternative plot sizes
(the latter to take into account differences in densities related to
location) and assessing the affordability of plots to households in
various income groups, using realistic assumptions about the cost
and availability of capital and credit and permissible/recommended
provisions for land use.
(iii)   estimating of costs of the alternatives and cost per plot and per
family, excluding costs of social, educational and commercial
areas;



-100 -                        ANNEX6
(iv)    estimating  family  affordability to purchase plots/housing  at
alternative densities developed from the cost estimates (above);
(v)    estimating (order of magnitude) of land requirements and major
public infrastructure requirements and major commercial,
industrial and transport land requirements and their cost, using
population growth rates and alternative settlement densities
prepared above (e.g., for roads, sewerage, water supply and
drainage)-for five-year intervals over 20 years, separating
requirements to meet the backlog of services from requirements to
meet new growth;
(vi)    analyzing natural environmental systems and resources of the UB
region, identification of highly sensitive areas where development
should be excluded, and classification of remaining land types
according to their suitability for ger/future housing development in
different land uses;
(vii)   identifying existing ambient water and air quality levels, major
existing sources of water and air pollution and solid and toxic
waste sources, estimation of expected increases in pollution levels
due to the recommended development strategy and measures
required to curb pollution from major sources;
(viii)   identifying funds expected to be available for capital investment in
infrastructure (from central government grants, local government's
own revenues including revenues generated by its service agencies,
loans, external grants and private capital in yearly increments over
the next 10 years;
(ix)    matching costs of alternative development densities, infrastructure
standards and costs, for local area and macro infrastructure,
projected growth rates and environmental constraints (above) with
estimated affordable financing available to households (above) and
the public and private sectors, to prepare policies on:
*  densities, service levels and spatial layouts, regulations to plot
subdivision for Ger development to respond to private and
market influences;
*  potential for area housing  development, apartments and
commercial development by the formal sector in existing and
proposed future ger areas;
*  design and performance standards and service levels for macro
and micro infrastructure;



-101-                       ANNEX6
(x)    selecting best alternative options for development on the basis of
discussions and workshops with other Working Groups and
Steering Committee using the above analysis;
(xi)   preparing (from above) a schematic structure plan for the UB
region to include a map indicating:
* timing, investment and broad locations for upgrading/reshaping
existing Ger areas and provision of new housing development
areas, commercial areas and markets;
* location and phasing of land release and development for ger
areas and where necessary, for the expanding city, together
with key markets, and transport terminals (so as to minimize
journey to work and dangers of pollution and accidents);
* an open space strategy to link with the environmental analysis
of  suitable  areas,  and  the  population's  recreational
requirements;
(xii)   preparing key policy statements on:
* overall development policy and spatial policy;
* Ger development and role of local communities in
development planning;
- infrastructure service levels and standards;
* transport;
* social, health and educational facility standards; and
*  environmental quality and pollution control;
(xiii)   recommending a high-priority set of policy actions and public and
private investments for short-term immediate implementation and
any studies required to analyze areas of uncertainty or gather key
information required to make decisions.
(b)   Legal and Institutional Strengthening.  This Study activity would
involve:
(i)   analyzing and make recommendations regarding functions and
responsibilities of agencies and institutions operating in the urban
sector at the central and local government level and community
and private sector levels, which undertake policy formation,



-102 -                     ANNEX6
regulation, financing (investment and O&M), planning and
implementation of services and management of land;
(ii)   identifying outputs of the above agencies and their staffing
structure and assessing their strengths and adequacy for their tasks;
(iii)   identifying strengths, shortfalls, duplications, mismatches and
weak coordination between agencies;
(iv)   identifying underlying reasons for strengths and weaknesses in
regulation, planning, management of urban services by the public
sector agencies, with particular focus on poor definition of
responsibilities,  inappropriate  staff  skills,  weak  career
opportunities, low remuneration and any other disincentives
affecting action and interpersonal/interagency cooperation;
(v)    briefly assessing management and implementation capacity of the
private sector for investment in and delivery of urban services and
identifying its potential for private sector to undertake
responsibility for implementation and management of some
services; also identifying areas in this topic that may need further
study;
(vi)   from the above analysis and in the light of the projected demands
for urban services, and information/analysis of urban finance
potential, recommending legal, institutional and organizational
changes necessary to implement and manage the regulation,
planning, financing implementation and management of urban land
and services; and inasmuch as Ger areas may be planned and
developed at the micro level by their residents and Khoroo and
Duuregs, recommending any improvements and initiatives needed
by government to coordinate the outreach and assistance to Ger
residents and organize community participation (including NGO
involvement) in planning and implementation of Ger land,
services, social facilities and income generation opportunities;
(vii)   recommending measures necessary to create an institutional
structure and incentives among government agencies and the
Community to continue coordinating the planning, programming,
budgeting and monitoring of development changes. Identifying
instruments necessary to achieve this purpose (e.g., GIS mapping,
multiyear intersectoral budgeting, etc.) and assessing and
recommending the practicality of their application in Mongolia.
(c)   Financial Management Planning. This Study activity would involve the
preparation of:



-103 -                     ANNEX6
(i)   analyzing revenue by source, for central and local government
(separately for loans and grants) and including funds from external
(international) sources; estimation of amounts raised by specific
instruments (taxes, user charges, profit from government
enterprises, etc.); reviewing revenue levels over each of past five
years; and identifying any revenues tied to expenditures or specific
services or infrastructures;
(ii)   projecting revenues by source and year over the next five years,
under a do-nothing scenario, but including any recent changes in
revenue sources (e.g., sale of land leases through land privatization
program), or major Study proposals for changing or adding
specific sources of revenue;
(iii)   analyzing expenditures by year over past five years by:
* Central Government through Central implementing agencies to
specific services in UB and subsidies to urban services
corporations/companies;
*  Central Government to local government through block grants
and tied to specific services but both implemented by local
government;
* by grants and/or loans from external (international and bilateral
agencies) for services in UB.
(iv)   recommending from which sources, in what amounts and on what
potential terms and conditions (user charges, taxes, fees, bonds,
etc.) and by whom various services could be provided-e.g.,
Central Government, MUB, households, the private sector
(Developers), international agencies, banks and so on to fund the
recommended high-priority set of policy actions and investments
for short-term immediate implementation, produced under sections
above.
Study Organization
83.   The Study would be guided by a Steering Committee, whose Chairman would be
the MUB City Manager, and whose Member Secretary would be MUB's Chief of the
Department Of Strategic Policy And Planning. The rest of the Steering Committee would
be composed of senior officials from appropriate Departments of MUB and Central
Government and representatives from academic, public interest and private sector groups.
84.   The Study itself would be undertaken by three Working Groups for:



-104 -                     ANNEX6
(a)   Growth Strategy and Services Planning;
(b)   Legal and Institutional Strengthening; and
(c)   Financial Management Planning.
85.   The work on the Study of the three Working Groups is interdependent in time,
substance and analysis and each Group will have to provide timely inputs and outputs to
the other. Accordingly, their activities will have to be coordinated and integrated in time
and in regard to substance within a Study implementation Schedule. The responsibility
for coordinating working group activities, inputs and outputs would rest with the Project
Management Unit (PMU) for the UB Urban Services Project.
86.   The PMU's USIP Project Manager, or alternatively a Study Manager/Coordinator
(PMC), drawn from the private sector, nominated by the Chairman of the Steering
Committee and endorsed by the rest of the Steering Committee, would coordinate and
manage the Study within the PIU for USIP. If the Study PMC is recruited from the
private sector, his/her costs would be covered by USIP technical assistance funds.
87.   The Working Groups' members would be professional staff drawn on deputation
from relevant MUB and Central Government Ministries and Departments and from
Community, and private sector groups with interests in the Study.
88.   All Working Group MUB and Central Government members would be deputized
full-time to the Working Groups and would be paid by Government through normal
channels. Community and private sector representatives would participate at their own
cost.
89.   The PMU and Study Working Groups would be assisted in the management,
analysis and organization of the Study by International Consultants, from whom MUB
seeks proposals under these Terms of Reference. The PMU and Study Working Groups
would also be assisted in the management, analysis and organization of the Study by
Local Consultants wno would be separately funded by USIP. The PMU would identify
the Local Consultants and the Study PMC if recruited from the private sector. The
appointment by the PMC of Local Consultants and the PMC to undertake the Study,
would be subject to review and approval by: (a) IDA; and (b) the International
Consultants.
90.   The Consultants will be expected to provide technical assistance to MUB/PMU
and its Study Working Groups over a period of six months commencing, if possible, in
early 1998. During the opening period of the Study, substantial advice/guidance is likely
to be needed, particuiarly regarding study methodologies and their implementation.
Subsequently, once procedures, working methods, the Working Groups and the Local
Consultants have been established the need for technical advice and the intensity of
International Consultants' assistance may reduce somewhat in the middle stage of the
Study.



-105 -                     ANNEX6
91.   The Consultant will provide about 7 person-months of professional staff input
over the six-month Study period, and will appoint a Study Leader as their prime
representative (table annexed). The Team Leader will be a senior urban planner, with
substantial experience in planning and management of urban services and finance, and-
if possible-having appropriate regional experience.
ESTIMATED STUDY CONSULTANT REQUIREMENTS
Description of Activity/Function                    Total Units     1998
(Person-Months)
International Consultants
Study Leader                                            1.0          1.0
Land Management/Infrastructure Planning Expert          3.0          3.0
Engineer (Infrastructure Cost Alternatives              1.5          1.5
Land Management Legal and Institutional Expert          1.0          1.0
Financial Expert                                        1.0          1.0
Subtotal International                               7.5
Local
Deputy Study Leader                                     6.0          6.0
Urban Development Planner                               6.0          6.0
Engineer (Infrastructure Cost Alternatives)             6.0          6.0
Financial Analyst                                       6.0          6.0
Subtotal Local                                      24.0
Subtotal Consultants                                             31.5
Computers and Related Equipment and Software
Vehicles
Office Support and Interpreters                        30.0
Subtotal
GRAND TOTAL
Note: Local Costs not to be included in consultant proposals, but funded under USIP.



-106 -                                   ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF CAPITAL COSTS AND FUNDING SOURCES
($'000)
Total    IDA    GOM/MUB  AusAID Grants % of Total % Forcizn
A. Water Supply
1. City Water Supply System
a) Southem Link GOM (East & West)            736         -        736                        3.2        55
b) Southern Link IDA (Central)               638      638            -              -       2.8         55
c) Reservoir & NW Link                       397      397            -              -        1.7        65
d) From Reservoir Tasgan to Reservoir NE     803      803            -              -       3.5         65
e) Ger Ring Connect to Reservoir (GOM)       263      263            -              -        1.2        65
f) Reservoirs Rehabilitation                  50       50            -              -        0.2        65
g) Telemetry                                 600      600            -              -       2.6         85
h) From NE Reservoir & Transmission Main     658      658            -              -       2.9         65
Subtotal                                4,145    3,409         736              -       18.2        65
2. Ger Area Water Supply
a) New Reservoir at Hailast                  250      250            -              -        1.1        50
b) Ger Main Supply Line                      622      622            -              -       2.7         60
c) Ger Area Piped Distribution             2,931    2,931            -              -       12.8        70
d) Reservoirs & Kiosks                      1,237    1,237           -              -        5.4        60
e) Electrical & Mechanical Equipment          54       54            -              -        0.2        90
f) Boreholes                                  16        16           -              -       0.0         S0
Subtotal                                5,110    5,110           -              -        22         67
3. Water Waste Reduction
Metersto Bldg. Cores                        1,157    1,157           -              -       5.1         90
Fixture Replacement - Equip (IDA)           1,320    1,320           -              -        5.8        90
Fixture Replacement - Equip (GOM)            263         -        263               -        1.2        90
Subtotal                                2,740    2,477         263              -       12.0        90
Total Water Supply                     11,995   10,996         999              -        53         71
B. Ger Area Upgrading
Roadworks, Footpaths, Drain, Etc.          2,330         -           -         2,330        10.2        50
Bins & Collection Equipment                 1,054        -           -          1,054       4.6         90
Total Ger Area Upgrading                3,384        -           -          3,384       14.8        62
C. Sewerage
Repair & Maint Equip                         117      117            -              -       0.5         85
Total Civil Works & Equipment          15,496   11,113         999          3,384        68         69
D. Technical Assistance
Project Management                           637      637            -              -       2.8        100
Financial Management & Ins                   456      456            -              -       2.0         90
Ger Future Development                       150                     -           150        0.7        100
USAG Workshop & Maint                        150      150            -              -       0.7         80
Water Network Modeling                        60       60            -              -       0.3         80
Community Awareness                           24                     -            24        0.1         10
Design                                       300      300            -              -        1.3         0
Supervision                                  420      312            -           108         1.8        25
Total TA                                2,197    1,915           -            282        9.6        67
Total Base Costs                       17,693   13,028         999          3,666        78         69
Physical Contingencies                            1,475    1,037        100            338        6.5         69
Price Contingencies                              3,658    2,605         162            891       16.0         27
Subtotal                                5,133    3,642         262          1,230        22         39
Total Costs La                            22,827   16,670        1,261          4.896       100         62
Ln UB/USAG will also be responsible for taxes of $809,000.



-107 -                                   ANNEX7
TABLE 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Percent                      Constant $'000
Components                                       Foreign     Total    1997      1998     1999     2000      2001
A. Water Supply
1. City Water Supply System
a) Southern Link (East & West)                 55         736      736         -        -        -
b) Southern Link IDA (Central)                 55         638        -      638                  -         -
c) Reservoir & NW Link                        65          397                  -        -      280      117
d) From Res Tasgan to Res NE                  65          803                         803
e) Ger Ring Connect to Reservoir              65          263        -         -        -      171       92
f) Reservoirs Rehabilitation                  65           so                          50        -         -
g) Telemetry                                  85          600        -         -        -      600         -
h) From NE Reservoir NE & Transmission Mains    65        658         -        -        -        -      658
Subtotal                                  65       4,145      736      638       853    1,051      867
2. Ger Area Water Distribution                      0            -        -         -        -        -         -
a) New Reservoir at Hailast                   50          250      250         -
b) Ger Main Supply Line                       60          622      421      201         -        -
c) Ger Area Piped Distribution                 70       2,931      420      420    1,200       540      351
d)Reservoirs & Kiosks                         60        1,237      412         -     412         -      413
e) Electric & Mechanical Equipment            90           54       54                       -             -
f) Boreholes & Drilling                       80           16       16         -        -        -
Subtotal                                  66       5,110    1,573      621    1,612       540      764
3. Wastage Reduction                                0            -        -        -         -        -        -
Meters to Bldg. Cores                         90        1,157      285      485      387         -         -
Fixture Replacement - Equipment               90        1,583        -      320      640       320      303
Subtotal                                  90       2,740      285       805    1,027      320      303
Total Water Supply                        71      11,995    2,594    2,064    3,492    1,911    1,934
B. Ger Area Upgrading
1. Road, Paths, Drain, Etc.                        50        2,330     446       411      642      591       240
2. Bins&CollectionEquipment                        90        1,054        -      257      315       365      117
Total Ger Area Upgrading                  62       3,384      446      668       957      956      357
C. Sewerage
Repair & Maint - Equip                         85         117        -      117         -        -         -
Total Civil Works and Equipment              69   15,496    3,040    2,849    4,449    2,867    2,291
D. Technical Assistance & Design/supervision        0            -        -        -         -        -        -
I Project Management                               100        637       IS0      300      187
2. Financial Management & Institutional            90         456        50      206      200
3. Ger future Development                          100         150        -        -      150         -        -
4. USAG Workshop & Maint                           80          150       40       60       40        10
5. Water Supply Network Modeling                   80          60         6       30       24         -
6. Community Awareness/Educ                        10          24         6       10        8         -
7. Design                                           0         300        80      100       80       40         -
8. Supervision                                     25         420        80      100      100        80       60
Total Technical Assistance                67       2,197      412      806       789      130        60
Total Base Costs                          69       17,693    3,452    3,655    5,238    2,997    2,351
Physical contingencies                                       1,475      279      285      420      287       204
Price contingencies                                          3,658      454      590    1,113      735       766
Total Contingencies                                5,133      733      875    1,533    1,022       970
Total Costs before Duties and Taxes               22,827    4,185    4,530    6,771    4,019    3,321
Duties & Taxes                                                809       118      169      240       180      102
Total Including Duties & Taxes                    23,636    4,303    4,700    7,011    4,199    3,423



TABLE 3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Percent                       Constant S'000                                                Constant Tug Million
Components                                                      Foreign    Total   1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002              Total   1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002
A. Water Supply
1. City Water Supply System
a) Southern Lin (East & West)                               55         736    736        -       -       -       -       -             383    383        -               -       -
b) Southen Link IDA (Central)                                55        638       -    638        -       -       -       -             332       -    332
c) Resevoir&NW Link                                          65        397                       -    280      117       -             206       -               -    146       61
d) From Res Tasgan to Res NE                                 65        803               -    803        -       -       -             418       -             418       -       -
e) GerRing Connect to Reservoir                             65         263       -       -       -    171       92       -             137                       -      89      48
f) Reservoirs Rehabilitation                                 65         50       -       -      50       -       -       -              26       -       -      26       -
g) Telemetry                                                 85        600       -       -       -    600        -       -             312       -       -       -    312        -
h) From NE Reservoir NE & Transmission Mains                 65        658       -               -       -    658        -             342                       -       -    342
Subtotal                                               65       4,145    736     638    853   1,051    867                      2,156    383    332      444      547    451
2. Ger Are Water Distribution                                     0                                               -       -        -       -       -       -
a) New Reservoir at Hailast                                 50        250     250        -       -       -       -       -             130     130       -
b) Ger Main Supply Lne                                       60       622    421       201       -                                     323     219     105
c)GerAxtaPipedDistribution                                  70       2,931     420     420   1,200     540    351        -           1,524     218    218      624     281     183
d)Reservoirs&Kiosks                                          60      1,237    412        -    412        -    413        -             643     214       -    214        -    215
e) Electric & Mechanical Equipment                           90         54      54       -                                              28      28
f Boreholes & Drilling                                       80         16      16       -       -       -       -       -               8       8
Subtotal                                               66       5,110   1,573    621   1,612    540    764          -           2,657    818     323     838    281    397
3. Wastage Reduction                                              0                                   -           -           -           -        -               -
Meters to Bldg Cores                                        90       1,157    285      485     387       -       -                     602     148    252    201         -
Fixture Replacement - Equipment (IDA)                        90      1,320       -    320    640       320      40                     686       -    166    333       166      21
Fixture Replacement - Equipment (GOM)                       90         263       -       -       -       -    263                      137       -       -       -       -    137
Subtotal                                               90      2,740    285      805   1,027     320    303         -           1,425    148    419    534        166     158
Total Water Supply                                     71      11,995   2,594   2,064   3,492   1,911   1,934       -           6,238   1,349   1,073   1,816    994   1,006        -
B. Ger Area Upgrading                                                         -       -       -               -       -       -               -        -       -      -                -       -
1. Road, Paths, Drain, Etc                                        50      2,330    446      411     642     591     240       -           1,212     232    214    334       307     125       -        °
2. Bins& Collection Equipment                                     90      1,054       -    257      315     365     117       -             548       -    134    164       190      61        -       °
Total Ger Area Upgrading                               62       3,34     446     668     957     956    357         -           1,760    232    347    498       497      186       -
C. Sewerage                                                                   -       -       -       -        -      -       -
Repair&Maint-Equip                                          85         117       -    117        -       -       -       -              61       -      61
Total Civil Works and Equipment                           69  15,496   3,040   2,S49   4,449   2,867   2,291        -           8,058   1,581   1,481   2,314   1,491   1,191
D. Teehnikal Assistance & Design/supervision                      0                                   -       -               -       -               -           -       -
1. Project Management                                            100        637     150    300      187       -       -       -             331      78     156      97
2. Financial Management & lnstitutiional                          90        456      50     206    200        -       -        -            237      26     107     104
3. Ger future Development                                        100        1 15      0       -       0       -       -       -              78       -       -      78
4. USAGWorlkshop&Maint                                            80        150      40      60      40      10       -       -              78      21      31      21       5
5. Water Supply Network Modelling                                 80         60       6      30      24       -           -                  31       3      16      12        -
6. Community Awareness/Educ                                       10         24       6      10       a       -       -       -              12       3       5       4        -
7. Design                                                         0         300      80     100      80      40       -       -             156      42      52      42      21
8. Supervision                                                    25        420      80     100     100      80      60       -             218      42      52      52      42      31
Total Technical Assistance                             67       2,197    412     806    789      130      60        -           1,142    214    419    410        68      31
Total Base Costs                                       69      17,693   3,452   3,655   5,238   2,997   2,351       -           9,201   1,795   1,901   2,724   1,558   1,223       -
Physical contingencies                                                    1,475     279     285    420      287    204                      767     145    148    219       149     106        -
Price contingencies                                                       3,658    454      590   1,113     735     766                    1,902    236    307      579     382     398
Total Contingencies                                             5,133    733     875   1,533   1,022    970         -           2,669    381     455     797    531      504        -
Total Costs before Tax                                         22,827   4,185   4,530   6,771   4,019   3,321       -          11,870   2,176   2,356   3,521   2,090   1,727       -
Taxes                                                                       809     IIS     169    240      180    102        -             421      61      S8    125       94      53        -
Total Ilncuding Taxes                                          23,636   4,303   4,700   7,011   4,199   3,423       -          12,291   2,238   2,444   3,646   2,184   1,780



TABLE 4: ANNUAL COSTS (INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES)
Percent                       Tug million                                                        S'000
Components                                                     Foreign    Total   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002            Total   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
A. Water Supply
i. City Water Supply System
a) Southern Link GOM (East & West)                            55     478     478        -               -       -       -             920     920        -       -       -       -        -
b) Southern Link IDA (Central)                                55     440        -    440                -       -                     847        -    847
c) Resevoir & NW Link                                         65     288        -       -       -    202       87       -             554        -       -       -    388      167
d) From Res Tasgan to Res NE                                  65     563        *       -    563        -       -       -            1,083       -       -   1,083       -
e) GerRingConnecttoReservoir                                  65      192       -       -             108      84       -             370        -       -       -    208      162
f) Reservoirs Rehabilitation                                  65      35        -       -      35       -       -       -              67                       67       -       - 6
g) Telemetry                                                  85    402         -       -       -    402        -       -             773        -       -       -    773        -
h) From NE Res NE & Transmission Mains                        65     487        -       -       -       -    487        -             937        -       -       -       -    937
Subtotal                                                      2,886     478     440     598     711      658       -           5,551     920     847   1,150   1,368   1,266
2. Ger Area Water Distribution
a)NewReservoiratHailast                                       50     164      164       -       -       -       -       -             316     316        -       -       -
b)GerMainSupply Line                                          60     407     271      137       -       -       -        -            7S3      521     263       -       -       -
c) Ger Area Piped Distribution                                70   2,005     264      277     827     382     255       -            3,857    508      533   1,590     735     491
d) Reservoirs & Kiosks                                        60     828     252        -    280        -    297        -            1,593    484        -    538        -    571
e) Electrical & Mechanical Equipment                          90      32      32        -       -       -       -       -              62      62
f) Boreholes                                                  80      10       10       -       -       -       -       -              19       19
Subtotal                                                      3,448     993     414   1,107     382     552        -           6,630   1,910     796   2,128      735   1,062
3. Wastage Reduction
Meters to Bldg Cores                                          90     720      171     301     248       -       -        -           1,385    329      579     477       -       -
Fixture Replacement - Equipment (IDA)                         90     846        *    199    410       210      27       -            1,626       -    382      788     404      52       -
Fixture Replacement - Equipment (GOM)                         90     177        -       -       -       -    177        -             341        -       -       -       -    341        -
Subtotal                                                       1,743    171     500     658     210      204       -           3,352     329     961   1,265     404     393
Total Water Supply                                            8,077   1,643   1,354   2,362   1,34    1,415        -           15,533   3,159   2,604   4,543   2,507   2,720
3. Ger Area Upgrading
1. Road, Paths, Drain, Etc                                         50   1,690      293     288     473     448     187                    3,249     564     553     910     862     360
2. Binss&Collection Equipment                                       90     680       -    160      202     240      79        -           1,307       -    307      388     461     152
Total Ger Area Up&r%dims                                      2,370     293     447     675     688      266       -           4,557     564     860   1,29S   1,313    S12
C. Sewerage
Repair & Maint - Equip                                        85      74        -      74       -       -       -       -             142        -    142        -       -
Tota Civil Works and Equipment                               10,521   1,936   1,875   3,037   1,992   1,681        -          20,232   3,722   3,606   5,841   3,830   3,232
D. Technical Assistance
1. Project Management                                             100     349       80     164     105       -       -       -             670      154    315      201       -       -       -
Financial Management&Ins                                           90     260       27     116     116                        -            500       52    224      224
3. Ger Future Development                                          100      84       -       -      84       -        -       -             162       -       -    162        -       -       -
4. USAG Workshop & Maint                                            80      88      22      35      24       6        -       .169                   43      67      46      12 
5 Water Newtwork Modeling                                          80       35       4      17      13                                      67        8      34      26       -       -
6. Community Awareness                                              10      17       4       7       6       -        -       -              33       7      14      12       -
7. Design                                                            0     220      53      73      62      32       -        -423                  102     140     120      62       -       - 
8. Supesion                                                        25        297    50      6       73      60      46        -            571      97       131    139     115      8 
Total TA                                                      1,349     241     480     484      98      46        -           2,595     463     924     930     189      89        - 9
Grand Total Costs                                            11,870   2,176   2,356   3,521   2,090   1,727        -          22,827   4,185   4,530   6,771   4,019   3,321



-110 -                     ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: SCHEDULE OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
1.    Project preparation has reached detailed design for the physical components of
water supply and ger upgrading. The Project Preparation Unit issued a table listing all
proposed packages for each year, which was discussed during the appraisal mission and
agreed. It was also agreed as part of the Sector Action Plan that the Project Management
Unit (PMU) would submit an updated procurement plan each October for every year after
Year 1 implementation. The revised table is based on the following constraints: the
limited period of the six-month growing season followed by harsh winter and freezing
conditions that hamper civil works to be carried out over winter; and the implementation
capacity of the local construction industry.  Both factors are good incentives for
developing bidding plans along yearly schedules with the requirements that bids need to
be distributed in the month of December preceding the year of implementation, and
approved at the latest the next March to enable contractors to proceed as soon as frost
conditions allow  excavation and construction activities.  Bidding documentation,
definition of packages and type of procurement have been comprehensively discussed
with the Project Unit and Municipality officials for the first year of implementation. All
procurement of equipment for amount over $100,000 would be carried out by ICB. All
procurement for civil works above $500,000 would be carried out according to ICB using
sample bid documents. Civil works for lesser amounts would be carried out on an NCB
basis using bidding documentation developed on the basis of the Sample Bid Document
for smaller works and prepared in the Mongolian language. All bid documents for the
first year of implementation will receive a-priori review, to ensure their adequacy of their
technical, commercial and general specifications. Packages and modes of procurement
for subsequent yearly work programs would proceed on the same basis as the schedule of
the first year of implementation.
2.    The metering and fixture repair programs would have the equipment packaged in
three parts and procured by the PMU on behalf of USAG during the first three years.
Under the metering package, the supplier would be asked to provide technical assistance
to help the kantors implement installation of meters according to best practices; and to
provide the software billing and collection systems.  Installation of meters and
replacement of fixtures would also be would be carried out by the kantors. Likewise, the
repair of fixtures would also be carried out by the kantors' labor force.
3.    Year-I and 2 Bid Packages. The table below gives a tentative breakdown of the
various goods and works into bid packages for the first two years and a tentative
breakdown of the program for subsequent years.



PROCUREMENT PACKAGING SCHEDULE
KEY
Al - Hydraulic Structures Packages                E - Mechanical & Electrical Equipment Packages        L - Ger Solid Waste Collection Equipment Supply Packages
A2 - Building Structures Packages                 F - Pipe Supply (HDPE) Packages                       S - Sewerage Maintenance Equipment Supply Package
BI - Pipe Laying Packages (HDPE)                  G - Water Meter Supply Packages                       TA - Technical Assistance Packages
B2- Pipe Supply & Packages (Steel)                H - Civil Works Construction Packages                 X - Plumbing Fixture Installation Packages
C - Pipe Supply & Packages (Minor works)          J - Plumbing Fixture Supply Packages                  Y - Water Meter Installation Packages
D - Borehole Drilling Packages                    K - Ger Solid Waste Bins Supply Packages
COMPONENT           Implement  Contract    Pcmt                        Description                      Pcmt         Base Cost (S)                        Description of Works
Year     Package    Method                                                     Category
City Network             I          IAI        NCB        Hailast Reservoir                              CW                 78,538         Const 1500cum reservoir
Ger Water Supply         I          IAI        NCB        Yarmag Reservoir                               CW                 34,194         Const 500cum reservoir
Ger Area Upgrading       I          IA2        NCB        Gandan Kiosk Rehab                             CW                    807         Repairs to I kiosk
Ger Area Upgrading       I          IA2        NCB        Gandan Kiosks New                              CW                  4,969         Const 4 new kiosks
Ger Sanitation           I          IA2        NCB        Gandan Laundry                                 CW                  9,729         Const I new laundry
Ger Water Supply         I          IA2        NCB        Hailast Pump Station                           CW                 16,846         Const I new pump station
Ger Water Supply         I          IA2        NCB        Yarmag Kiosks Rebab                            CW                 18,785         Repairs to 20 kiosks
Ger Water Supply         I          IA2        NCB        Yannag Bore Building                           CW                  6,782         Const I new pump station
Ger Area Upgrading       I          IA2        NCB        Gandan Footpath                                CW                 20,332         Const l800m concrete footpath
Ger Water Supply         I          IBI        NCB        Yamrag Pipelines                               CW                127,433         Lay 50m 50dia, 5500m lOOdia, 7000m 150dia, 1600m 200dia HDPE
pipe
City Network             I          1IB2       ICB        Ger Transmission Main (to Hailast Res)         CW                201,812         Lay 4700m 300dia HDPE, 4700m 500dia Steel/DI pipe
Ger Water Supply         I          IB2        ICB        Pipe Supply (Dl or Steel)                      GOODS             190,000         Supply SteelDI pipe
Ger Water Supply         I          IC         NCB        Gandan Pipelines                               G'DS/CW            31,742         Supply & lay 400m 50dia Steel                                      -
Ger Water Supply         I          ID         NCB        Bayan'u & Shar Khad Bores                      CW                 31,970        Drill & develop 2 bores
Ger Water Supply         I          IE         ICB        Hailast Pumps & Electrics - Supply & Install   GOODS              20,000         Supply & install 2 pumps, controls & electrics
Ger Water Supply         I          I E        ICB        Yarmag Pumps & Electrics - Supply & Install    GOODS              10,000         Supply & install 2 borehole & 2 circulation pumps, controls &
electrics
City Network             I          IE         ICB        Hailast Res'r Boiler House Heater - Supply & Install GOODS       231,700        Supply & install heating eqpt for reservoir
Ger Water Supply         I          I E        ICB        Yarmag Res'r Boiler House Heater Supply & Install  GOODS         158,900         Supply & install beating eqpt for reservoir
Ger Water Supply         I          IF         ICB        Pipe Supply HDPE Yarmag(lyHailast & Nisekh(2)  GOODS             770,000         Supply HDPE pipe
Waste Water Reduction    I          I G        ICB        Water Meters                                   GOODS             185,000        Supply 4000 No hot & cold water meters
City Network             I          IGOM       GOM        Sthem Link East & West sections (GOM)          OWN               736,000        Supply & lay Steel pipe
Ger Drainage             I          IH         NCB        Denjiin No I Drain                             CW                132,642        Const 600m drain with concrete side protection
Ger Drainage             I          IH         NCB        Denjiin No 2 Drain                             CW                 81,452        Const 650m drain with concrete lining
Ger Drainage             I          IH         NCB        Denjiin No 3 Drain                             CW                196,826        Const 1OOOm drain with concrete side protection
Waste Water Reduction    I          IJ         ICB        Replacement Plumbing Fixtures Supply -I        GOODS             583,000
Technical Asst/Design/    I         ITATI    TA           Project Management                             TA                637,000
Superv
Technical Asst/Design/    I         ITAT2      TA         Financial Management & Institutional           TA                456,000
Superv
Technical AsstlDesign/    I         ITAT2      TA         Design                                         TA                300,000                                                                            4
Superv
Technical Asst/Design/    I         ITAT2    TA           Supervision                                    TA                420,000
Superv
Ger Sanitation           2          2A2        NCB        Denjiin Bathhouse/Laundry & Effluent Disposal  CW                 51,532        Const I new bathhouse/laundry
Ger Water Supply         2          2BI        NCB        Hailast Pipelines                              CW                453,068        Lay 200m 50dia, 12700m lOOdia, 5300m l25dia, 280 m l50dia          X
HDPE pipe, repair 3 kiosks
Ger Water Supply         2          2BI        NCB        Nisekh Pipelines                               CW                192,510        Lay 50m 50dia, 2700m 70dia, 400m lOOdia, 200m l25dia HDPE
pipe, const 2 new kiosks, repair 8 kiosks



CO?PONENT           Implement  Contract    Pcnt                      Description                      Pemt         Base Cost (S)                         Description of Works
Year     Package    Method                                                    Category
City Network             2          2B2        ICB        Sthemn Link Centra                             G'DS/CW          637,587         Supply & lay 7100m 400dia Steel pipe
City Network             2          2B2        NCB        NE Res Rehabilitation                          G'DS/CW           25,000         Install misc. minor fittings
Ger Water Supply        2           2F         ICB        Pipe Supply - HDPE Deniiin, Shar Khad & Naran    GOODS          200,000         Supply HDPE pipe
Waste Water Reduction    2          2G         ICB        Water Meters & Workshop Eqpt                   GOODS            485,000
Gcr Area Upgading       2           2H         NCB        Gandan Roadworks                               CW               180,000         Cont 2200m asphalt road
Get Area Upamding       2           2H         NCB        Denjin Footpaths                               CW               180,000         Const 5500m concrete footpath
Waste Water Reduction    2          21         ICB        Replacement Plumnbing Fixtures Supply -2       GOODS            500,000
Get Solid Waste Collection 2        2K         NCB        Bins                                           GOODS             57,000         Supply 50 bins
(Gcr Solid Waste Collection 2       2L         IS         Ger area collection equipment                  GOODS            300,000         Supply 2 compactor trucks
Teehnical AsstlDesignt    2         2TAT       TA         USAG Workshop Maintenance Assistance           TA               150,000
Superv
Technical Asst/Desiga/    2         2TAT       TA         Community Avwareness/Education                 TA                24,000
Superv
Technical AssttDesignt    2         2TATI    TA           Ger Future Development                         TA               100,000
Superv
Waste Water Reduction    2          2X         FA         Replacement Plurnbing Fixtures Installation    CW                   inel.       Install replacement plumbing fixtures
Waste Water Reduction    2          2Y         FA         Water Meter Installation                       CW                   inc.        Install water meters
Ger Water Supply        3           3AI        NCB        Shar Khad Resrvoir                             CW                34,194         Const 500cum reservoir
Ger Sanitation          3           3A2        NCB        Hailast BathhouseLaundry & Effluent Disposal   CW                51,532         Const I new bathhousc/laundry
Gcr Water Supply        3           3BI        NCB        Denjiin Pipelines                              CW               151,271         Lay 50m 50dia, 6700m 100dia HDPE pipe, const 2 new kiosks, repair
3 kiosks
Ger Water Supply        3           3BI        NCB        Shar Khad Pipelines                            CW               167,226         Lay l00m 50dia, 4400m 70dia, 3500m 1l00dia, 1400m I50dia HDPE
pipe, const 2 new kiosks, repair 5 kiosks
Ger Water Supply        3           3BI        NCB        Naran Pipelines                                CW                55,671         Lay I 50m 50dia, 100m 70dia, BOOm BOdia HDPE pipe, const I new
hiosk, repair 6 kiosks
City Network            3           3B2        ICB        Tasgan Res - NE Res Link (part GOM)            G'DS/CW          802,985         Supply & const 9 100m 500dia Steel pipe
City Network            3           382        ICB        Selbe River - NE Res Link                      GDS/CW               incl.
City Network            3           3B2        NCB        X Res Rehabilitation                           CW                25,000         Install misc. minor fittings
Ger Water Supply         3          3E         NCB        Shar Khad Res'r Boiler House Heater - Supply &  GDS/CW          158,900         Supply & install heating eqpt for reservoir
Instal
G(c Water Supply        3           3F         ICB        Pipe Supply - HDPE - for Chingeltei, Dari Ekh &  GOODS          250,000         Supply HDPE pipe
Tolgoit
Waste Water Reduction    3          3G         ICB        Water Meters supply                            GOODS            487,000
Ger Area Upgrading      3           3H         NCB        Denjin Roadworks                               CW               160,000         Const 1200m asphalt, 1000m gravel road
Ger Area Upgrading      3           3H         NCB        Hailast Roadworks                              CW                80,000         Const 500m asphalt road
G(r Area Upgrading      3           3H         NCB        Hailast Footpaths                              CW               116,000         Const 6300m concrete footpath
Ger Area Upgrading      3           3H         NCB        Denjin Footpaths                               CW               150,000         Const 4600m concrete footpaths
Ger Drainage            3           3H         NCB        Chingeltci Drains                              CW                85,000         Const 400m drain with concrete/rock sides
Waste Water Reduction    3          3J         ICB        Replacement Plumbing Fixtures Supply -3        GOODS            500,000
Ger Solid Waste Collection 3        3K         NCB        Bins                                           GOODS            115,000         Supply 200 bins
Gcr Solid Waste Collection 3        3L         IS         Ger area collection equipment                  GOODS            100,000         Supply I compactor truck
Seweage                 3           3S        IS          Sewerage Maintenance Equipment                 GOODS            117,000         Supply eqpt
Technical AssttDesign/    3         3TAT       TA         Water Network Modeling                         TA                60,000
Superv
Waste Water Reduction    3          3X         FA         Replacement Plumbing Fixtures Installation     CW                   incl.       Install replacement plumbing fixtures
Waste Water Reduction    3          3Y         FA         Water Meter Installation                       CW                   incl.      Install water meters
Ger Sanitation          4           4A2        NCB        Chingeotei Bathhouses  undry&EffluentDispos    CW                51,532         Const Inew bathhousellaundry 
GcanWat nSupply         4           4BI        NCB        TolgoitePipelines                              CW               471,258         Lnt 200m 50dia,75ous70dia,u2000m 100dia, 1100m 125diaHDPE
pipe, const 2 new kiosks, repair 17 kiosks
Gcr Water Supply        4           4BI        NCB        Chingeltei Pipelines                           CW               157,501         Lay 150m 50dia, 2700m 150dia HDPE pipe, const 4 new kiosks,
repair 21 kiosks
Ger Water Supply        4           4BI        NCB        Dari Ekh Pipelines                             CW               115,825         Lay 50m 50dia, 6700m lOOdia HDPE pipe, const 2 new kiosks, repair
3 kiosks



COMPONENT           Implement  Contract    Pcmt                        Description                     Pcmt          Base Cost(S)                         Description of Works
Year     Package    Method                                                     Category
City Network            4           4B2        GOM        Ger Trans - City Loop                          OWN               262,755         Supply & const 2700m 500dia Steel pipe
City Network            4           4B2        ICB        NW Res - 3/4 Res Link                          G'DS/CW           280,209         Supply & const 3700m 400dia Steel pipe
City Network            4           4E         ICB        Telemetry System                               G'DS/CW           600,000         Supply & install monitoring eqpt for City Network
Ger Water Supply        4           4E         ICB        Bayakhonshu Resar Boiler House Heater - Supply &  GDS/CW         158,900         Supply & install heating eqpt for reservoir
Install
Ger Water Supply        4           4F         ICB        Pipe Supply HDPE Bayan'su & Dambadarja         GOODS             295,000        Supply HDPE pipe
Ger Area Upgrading      4           4H         NCB        Chingeltei Roadworks                           CW                160,000        Const I bridge, 2000m gravel road
Ger Area Upgrading      4           4H         NCB        Dambadarjaa Roadworks                          CW                245,000        Const l500m asphalt, 1800m gravel road
Ger Drainage            4           4H         NCB        Dambadarjaa Drains                             CW                135,000        Const 2200m concrete/rock protected levees
Ger Solid Waste Collection 4        4K         NCB        Bins                                           GOODS             115,000        Supply 200 bins
Ger Solid Waste Collection 4        4L         IS         Ger area collection equipment                  GOODS            250,000         Supply collection equipment
Waste Water Reduction    4          4X         FA         Replacement Plumbing Fixtures Installation     CW                   incl.       Install replacement plumbing fixtures
Waste Water Reduction    4          4Y         FA         Water Meter Installation                       CW                   incl.       Install water meters
Ger Water Supply        5           5AI        NCB        Bayakhonshu Reservoir                          CW                 34,194        Const 500cum reservoir
Ger Sanitation           5          SA2        NCB        Dambadarjaa BathhousetLaundry & Effluent       CW                 51,532        Const I new bathhouse/laundry
Disposal
Ger Water Supply        5           5BI        NCB        Bayakhonshu Pipelines                          CW                163,664        Lay 7500m 50dia, 4500m 70dia, 3000m 100dia HDPE pipe, const 3
new kiosks, repair 16 kiosks
Ger Water Supply        5           5BI        NCB        Dambadaija Pipelines                           CW                121,949        Lay 50m 50dia, 4100m 70dia, 2400m 100dia, 600m 150dia HDPE
pipe, repair 4 kiosks
City Network            5           5B2        ICB        Transmission Main Uliastai - NE Res            GDS/CW           657,849         Rehabilitation of existing supply mains
City Network            5           5B2        ICB        Res NW Link                                    GDS/CW            86,295         Supply & lay II 00m 400dia Steel pipe
City Network            5           5B2        NCB        3/4 Res - Tasgan Link                          GDS/CW            29,389         Supply & lay 500m 300dia Steel pipe
Ger Area Upgrading      5           5H         NCB        Dambadaijaa Footpaths                          CW                86,000         Const 4900m concrete footpath, 3 footbridges
Ger Area Upgrading      5           5H         NCB        Denjin Roads                                   CW                100,000        Const 600m asphalt roads
Ger Solid Waste Collection 5        5K         NCB        Bins                                           GOODS             117,000        Supply 200 bins
TOTAL                                     17,640,787
00



-114-                       ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA             Annual        Cumulative      Cumulative    Sector Profile
Fiscal Year       ($ million)    ($ million)        (%)             (%)
1998                 1.7          1.0  (1.0)         4.9            50
1999                 4.1          5.1  (2.8)        23.6            70
2000                 6.4         11.5  (9.0)        53.2            86
2001                 6.4         17.9 (14.2)        82.7            98
2002                 3.7         21.6 (16.7)       100.0            98
Note. Numbers in brackets indicate IDA only disbursement.



ANNEX 10: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Preqpre Bid Docs Obtain IDA review
Request & Receive Bids
Evaluate Bids
Obtain IDA OK for Bid Evaluation & Award Contract
Deliver Equipment/Materials
Implement Contract (Construct works/Procure Eqpt)
Year I -1997                                           Year2- 1996
COMPONENT                  Implement Contract   Pcmt                         Description                       Pcmt       Base   May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct Nov  Dec  Jin  Feb  Mar Apr May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct Nov  Dec
Year    Package  Method                                                        Category   Cost (S)
City Network                    I        IAI      NCB   Hailast Reservoir                                       CW         78,538
Ger Water Supply                I        IAI      NCB   Yarmag Reservoir                                       CW          34,194
Ger Area Upgrading              I        IA2      NCB    Gandan Kiosk Rehab                                    CW            807
Ger Area Upgrading              I        IA2      NCB   Gandan Kiosks New                                       CW          4,969
Ger Sanitation                  I        IA2      NCB   Gandan Laundry                                          CW          9,729
Ger Water Supply                I        IA2       NCB   Hailast Pump Station                                   CW         16,846
Ger Water Supply               I         IA2      NCB   Yarmag Kiosks Rehab                                    CW          18,785
Ger Water Supply                I        IA2      NCB   Yarmag Bore Building                                   CW           6,7S2
Ger Area Upgrading              I        IA2       NCB    Gandan Footpath                                      CW         20,332 ,=r_ 
Ger Water Supply                I        IBI       NCB    Yarmnag Pipelines                                     CW        127,433:r__       I
City Network                    I        1B2       ICB    Ger Transmission Main (to Hailast Res)               CW        201,812
Ger Water Supply                I        IB2       ICB    Pipe Supply (Dl or Steel)                           GOODS    190,000
Ger Water Supply               1         1 C      NCR    Gandan Pipelines                                    G'DS/CW      31,742
Ger Water Supply                I        ID       NCR    Baiyankoshuu & Sher Khad Bores                        CW         31,970
Ger Water Supply               I          IE       ICB    Hailast Pumps & Electrirs - Supply & Install       GOODS        20,000
Gee Water Supply                I         IE       ICB    Yarmag Pumps & Electrics - Supply & Install        GOODS         10,000;:,,@_
City Network                    I         IE       ICB    Hailast Res'r Boiler House Heater- Supply & Install    GOODS    231,700-                                                                                                                     0I
Ger Water Supply                I         IE       ICB    Yarmag Resr Boiler House Heatre Supply& Install    GOODS    158,900  _'r 
Ger Water Supply                I         IF       ICB    Pipe Supply HDPE Yanrnag(l)/lailast & Nisekh(2)    GOODS    770,000' -            I
WastewawaReduction              I         IG       ICB    WaterMeters                                        GOODS    185,000
City Network                    I       I GOM     GOM    Sthern Link East & West sections (GOM)                OWN       736,000
Ger Drainage                    I         IH      NCB   Denjin No I Drain                                      CW        132,642
Ger Drainage                   I         IH       NCB   DenjinNo 2 Drain                                       CW         81,452
Ger Drainage                   I         IH       NCB   DenjinNo 3 Drain                                       CW        196,826
Wastewate Reduction             I         II       ICB    ReplacementPlumbing Fixtures Supply -I             GOODS 83°lO
Tech. Asst/Design/Superv       I       ITATI       TA    Projec Management                                      TA       637,000       111111 1111(1 -_
Techn Asst /Design/Superv       I       ITAT2      TA    Financial Management & Institutional                   TA       456,000
Techn Asst/Design/Superv       I        ITAT2      TA    Design                                                 TA       300,000
Techn Asst/Design/Superv        I       ITAT2      TA     Supervision                                           TA       420,000
Ger Sanitation                 2         2A2      NCB   Denjin Bathhouse/Laundry & Effluent Disposal           CW         51,532
Ger Water Supply               2         2BI      NCB   Hailast Pipelines                                      CW        453,068                                                                              a
Ger Water Supply               2         2BI      NCB    Nisekh Pipelines                                      CW        192,510
City Network                   2         2B2       ICB    Sthern Link Central                                G'DS/CW    637,587
City Network                   2         2B2      NCB   NE Res Rehabilitation                                G'DS/CW      25,000
Ger Water Supply               2         2F        ICR    Pipe Supply - HDPE Denjiin, Shar Khad & Naran      GOODS    200,000
Wastewater Reduction           2         2G        ICB    Water Meters & Workshop Eqpt                       GOODS    485,000                                                                                                                          z
Ger Area Upgrading             2         2H       NCB   Gandan Roadworks                                       CW        180,000
Ger Area Upgrading             2         2H       NCB   Denjin Footpaths                                       CW        180,000
Wastewater Reduction           2          2J      ICB    ReplacementPlumbing Fixtures Supply -2              GOODS    500,000
Ger Solid Waste Collection     2         2K       NCB   Bins                                                 GOODS        57,000
Ger Solid Waste Collection     2         2L         IS    Ger area collection equipment                      GOODS    300,000
Techn. Asst /Design/Superv     2        2TAT       TA    USAG Workshop Maintenance Assistance                   TA       150,000
Techn.Asst/Design/Superv       2        2TAT       TA    Community AwarenessiEducation                          TA        24,000
Techn.Asst/Design/Superv       2       2TATI       TA    Ger Future Development                                 TA       100,000
Wastewater Reduction           2         2X        FA    Replacemeat Plumbing Fixtures Installation            CW            incl
Wastewater Reduction           2         2Y        FA    Water Meter Installation                              CW            incl



ICEY
Prepare Bid Docs Obtain IDA review
1ll!mReqtuest & Receve Bids
Evaluale Bids
Obtain IDA OK for Bid Evtluation & Award Contrctw
Deliver EquipmnentlMaitetiis
Impleenint Contract (Constrect works,Procure Eqpt)
Yelt999 I                               4 -  Yw4-200               Year F- 2001
COMPONENT                   In4pL   Contract    Pegt                            Descriptien                           Fcmt    BaewC      (S) J F M  A  M  I J A  S   O N  D    I F M  A M    J J A  S  O N  D J F M  A  M  I J  A  S O    N D
Yetr   Padage   Medtd                                                                   Catepery
Ger Wter Supply               3        3AI        NCB   SharKhad Reservoir                                             CW            34,194
Ger Satution                  3        3A2        NCB   Hailast BathboustuiLatdry & Eftluent Disposa                   CW            51,532
Gar Wter Supply               3        3BI        NCB   Dejin Pipelines                                                CW            151,271
GerWtr Supply                 3        3BI        NCB   SharKtd Pipelines                                              CW           167,226
Ger Water Supply              3        3BI        NCB   NarnPipelines                                                  CW            55,671
City Network                  3        3B2        ICB    Tagn Res - NE Res Link (part GOM)                          GDS/CW          S02,955
City Network                  3        3B2        ICB    Selbe River - NE Res Link                                   GTIS,CW            acl
City Network                  3        3B2        NCB   X Res Rduabilitetion                                           CW            25,000
Ger Wter Supply               3         3E        NCB   Sr Khed Res'r Boiler House Hea ter- Supply & Install        G'DSICW         151,900
Oar Waler Supply              3         3f        ICB    Pipe Supply - HDPE - for Chingetti, Dwti Ekh & Tolgoit      GOODS          250,010
Waslwater Reduction           3         30        ICB    Water Mdets supply                                          GOODS          487,000
Ger Area Upgrading            3        3H         NCB   Dajin Roadworks                                                CW           160,000
ar Aret Upgrading             3         3H        NCB   Htila Roadworks                                                CW            l0,000
G  Aren  Upgrading            3        3H         NCB   Heilnt Footpaths                                               CW           116,000
Oar Area Upgrding             3         3H        NCB   Ger area footopeds                                             CW           150,000
Oar Draina                    3         3H        NCB   CltQintas Drins                                                CW            *5,000
Wuewatr Reduction             3         3I        ICB    Reptacet Plumsbing Fixtures Supply -3                       GOODS          500,000
Or Solid Wte Collecion        3         3K        NCB   Bins                                                         GOODS          115,000
Gar Solid Wstle Collection    3         3L         IS   OGerrea collection equipannt                                3GOODS          100,000
Sewenap                       3         3S         IS    Sewea  Meustt nceEquipmt                                    GOODS          117,000 
Tedin.Asst/Design/Superv      3       3TAT         TA    Water Ndwork Modelling                                        TA            60,000                                                                                                                       -
Wasewater Reduction           3         3X         FA    Ralaeat nPlumbing Fixtures Installation                       CW               intt
Wstwater Reduction            3        3Y          PA    Water Meter Installation                                      CW               hla
GOrSasilaiton                 4        4A2        NCB   Chingetei BahbtouseltundrytAEffluentDinposat                   CW            51,532
Oar Water Supply              4        4BI        NCB   TolgoitPipdines                                                CW           471,258
Oer Water Supply              4        4B1        NCB   Chingete Pipelines                                             CW           157,501
Ger Water Supply              4        4BI        NCB   Dari Ekh Pipelines                                             CW           115,125
City Network                  4        4B2        GOM   Oer Trns - City Loop                                          OWN           262,755
City Network                  4        4B2        ICB    NW Res - 3/4 Res Link                                      G'DS/CW         220,209
City Network                  4         4E        ICB    Telmeely System                                            G'DStCW         600,000
Gr Water Supply               4         4E        ICB    Baiyankoshuu Res Boiler HouseHater - Supply & install      G'DStCW         151,900
Oar Water Supply              4         4F        ICB    Pipe Supply HDPE Baytn'su & Dtmbadaja                       GOODS          295,000
Ger Area Upgrading            4        4H         NCB   Chingtei Romdworks                                             CW           160,000
Oer Areat Upgrading           4         4H        NCB   Dambadejse Roadworks                                           CW           245,000
Ger Drainage                  4        4H         NCB   Daesbedaj  Drains                                              CW           135,000
Oer Solid Wste Collection     4         4K        NCB   Bins                                                         GOODS          115,000
Oar Solid Waste Collection    4         4L         IS    Oer ua collection equipment                                 GOODS          250,000
Wwstewater Reduction          4         4X         FA    Replacemerit Plumbing Fixtures Insllation                     CW               incl
Wastewaer Reduction           4         4Y         FA    Water Meter Installation                                      CW              incl
Ger Water Supply              5        SAI        NCB   Baaiyezkoshuu Reservoir                                        CW            34,194
Oer Sanit,tion                S        SA2        NCB   DarnbedaijuaBaithhouse(aundry&EffluentDisposal                 CW            51,532
Oer Water Supply              S        5B1        NCB   Batiyankoshuu Pipelines                                        CW           163,664
aer Water Supply              5        SBI        NCB   DambadaijaaPipelines                                           CW           121,949
City Network                  S        5B2        ICB    Transrrinsion Mein Uiastai -NE Res                         G'DS/CW         657,149
City Network                  S        5B2        ICB    Res NW Link                                                G`DS/CW          16,295
City Network                  S        5B2        NCB   3/4 Res - Tesgan Link                                       G'DS/CW          29,379 9
Ger Area Upgrading            S        5H         NCB   Dambadarjs, Footpaths                                          CW            36,000
Ger Area Upgrading            S         SH        NCB   Ger Area Roads                                                 CW           100,000
Ger Solid Wste Collection     5         5K        NCB   Bins                                                         GOODS          117,000
TOTAL                                                                   17,640,717



- 117 -                           ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: SCHEDULE OF SUPERVISION
MONGOLIA ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
1.     The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision
needs at headquarters to review progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc., which is estimated at 13 staff-weeks during FY98 through FY01 and 8 staff-weeks in
FY02. The Bank Group's China Resident Mission assistance in providing training on
such matters as procurement, disbursement is estimated at 3 weeks annually from FY98
through FY02. Accordingly, the total IDA supervision input is estimated at 75 staff-
weeks, of which 20 staff-weeks would be at the headquarters, 40 staff-weeks in the field,
and 15 staff-weeks would be from the Resident Mission's staff.
IDA FIELD SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approx. Dates                                              Expected Skill            Input
(monthlyear)               Activity                        Requirements         (staff-weeks)
Oct 1997   Supervision mission (work progress,  Task Manager, Engineer,            6
financial performance, project launch  Financial Analyst, Sociologist
workshops)
Mar 1998   Supervision mission (work progress,    Task Manager, Sociologist,        5
financial performance)              Utilities Specialist
Sep 1998   Supervision mission (procurement, physi- Task Manager, Utilities Specialist,  6
cal progress and institutional performance, Financial Analyst, Sociologist,
environmental aspects)              Environmental Specialist
Mar 1999   Supervision mission (procurement,    Task Manager, Utilities Specialist,  6
financial performance)              Financial Analyst
Sep 1999   Mid-Term Review (in-depth assessment Task Manager, Financial Analyst,   7
of physical progress and institutional  Sociologist
performance
Mar 2000   Two Supervision missions (work       Task Manager, Sanitary Engineer,    5
Sep 2000   progress, financial performance)     Financial Analyst
Oct 2001   Implementation completion mission    Task Manager, Engineer,            5
(review of draft report, review with  Financial Analyst
implementing agencies



-118 -                     ANNEX 11
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.    Overall coordination of the project would be the responsibility of the Project
Management Unit. This would include, inter alia, (a) providing guidance on timing and
form of reporting implementation progress; (b) arranging meetings with the government,
water company during mission's field visits; (c) ensuring timely information to IDA; and
(d) proposing satisfactory resolution of any unexpected issue occurring during
implementation.
3.    The following reports on implementation progress would be submitted to IDA:
semiannually:  (a) reports on implementation status, including monitoring of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP); annually: (b) annual updated financial
projections of water company; (c) audited financial statements of water company and
Special Account for the credit including a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures;
and other: (d) evaluation report on project implementation and any report required on
various subjects.
Outline of Semiannual Status Report
4.    The semiannual status report should comprise a descriptive part and appendices;
the descriptive part should not exceed 20 pages and should cover the following items:
(a)   General Description of the Project. A concise summary of project
objectives, description cities' components, financing, initial and latest
estimated costs, initial and latest schedule, key data of credit and project
agreements and of various amendments;
(b)   Project Overview, Physical Accomplishment. Status of implementation
progress for each component of the project, procurement, information on
inspection of manufacturing, input of supervising consultant; monitoring
of EMP compliance during the reported period;
(c)   Procurement Status. List of awarded contracts with dates of award, start
and completion of contract, allowed time extensions, and variations,
contract amounts in various currencies and status of disbursement for
contracts, projected and actual disbursement S-curve for the total cost;
(d)   Institutional Status. Progress of institutional improvements in water
company, performance of advisers and achievements in staff training;
(e)   Problems Affecting Implementation.  Description of problems and
proposed or taken actions.
5.    Appendices will list personnel provided by the provinces and water company, by
the consultants and by contractors, key meetings, important visits on site, photographs,



-119-                       ANNEX 11
location plans of the project showing planned and achieved progress and monitoring
indicators. The report will include key monitoring indicators shown in Annex 3.
Outline of the Evaluation Report on Project Implementation
6.    The evaluation report to be prepared by USAG and PMU, should not exceed 10
pages and the performance judgments and analyses should cover the following specific
aspects:
(a)   Project Objectives.  A concise statement and evaluation of major
objectives as presented in the SAR, including any changes made during
implementation. The evaluation will assess the clarity of the objectives,
their realism, and whether they are important for the country and sector.
(b)   Achievement of Project Objectives. An assessment of the project's
success (substantial, partial, negligible) in achieving its major objectives,
e.g., sector policy improvements, financial objectives, institutional
development, physical objectives, other social objectives, environmental
objectives, and public sector management and private sector development.
(c)   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. An
analysis of the factors that affect implementation. The factors are divided
into those not generally subject to government or provinces control, those
subject to government and provinces control, and those subject to water
company control.
(d)   IDA  Performance.  An assessment of IDA's performance (highly
satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient) in project identification, preparation
assistance, appraisal, and supervision.
(e)   Water Company Performance. An assessment of the performance of
involved water company and municipality (highly satisfactory,
satisfactory, deficient) in preparing, implementing, and operating the
project.
(f)    Assessment of Outcome.  A rating of outcome (highly satisfactory,
satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or highly unsatisfactory) based primarily on
how well the project achieved its objectives and how sustainable it is
likely to be.
(g)   Future Operation. A description and assessment of the plan for the
project's future operation, including understanding the measures to
maximize the project benefits, and the indicators for monitoring and
evaluating future operations.



-120-                      ANNEX 11
(h)   Key Lessons Learned. A discussion of the most significant positive and
negative lessons learned from the project's implementation, showing how
they are reflected in the arrangements for its future operations. This
section also identifies those lessons most relevant to similar ongoing and
future projects in this sector in Mongolia.
7.    MUB and USAG will submit the evaluation report to IDA after completing the
project and in time stipulated in the Project Agreement.



-121-                      ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF ULAANBAATAR
MUNICIPALITY
OVERVIEW
1.    Ulaanbaatar, with more than 25 percent of Mongolia's total population, had an
operating budget of Tug 23.9 billion in 1995, equivalent to 18 percent of the national
budget of Tug 131.3 billion. Due to the economic upheaval of the early 1990s, the
budget of the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB) shrank dramatically in 1992 and then
stabilized in real terms ever since then as did its size relative to the national budget. The
MUB budget is divided into the current budget for operating expenditures and the capital
budget for new investments. MUB has no outstanding debts and its revenues have grown
in line with inflation since 1992. The expected introduction of a property tax on the
recently privatized apartments and MUB's policy of increasing tariffs for urban services
to recover operating costs will help further consolidate its finances.
2.    The proposed IDA credit will be directly onlent from the central government to
USAG. MUB, however, agreed to provide $1.26 million as counterpart funding and had
already earmarked Tug 200 million in the 1997 budget as part of the project's counterpart
funding to carry out the construction of two connecting pipelines to support the project.
The project will not create any excessive burden on MUB as IDA's credit will be paid
back by the expected revenues of USAG.
3.    The AusAID grant of $5 million will be passed on to the municipality. The
investments supported by AusAID for the next five years amounts to 50 percent of
MUB's 1996 capital budget and will substantially help relieve the burden of municipal
finance. The AusAID component will relieve some of MUB's financial burden for ger
investments by introducing the concept of cost recovery and establishing a Ger
Infrastructure Development Fund.
PAST PERFORMANCE
4.    The operating budget accounts for around 75 percent of the total budget. Taxes
are the major source of operating budget, accounting for around 80 percent. The business
income tax is the largest source but with declining shares at over 40 percent currently,
followed by the trade tax and personal income tax with 14 and 12 percent, respectively.
On the expenditure side, the personnel cost, including a social security contribution, is the
largest cost, with its share increasing from 30 percent in 1994 to 48 percent in 1996. By
sector, education and health accounts for 80 percent of total expenditure. Except in 1995,
the operating budget has recorded small annual surpluses, which were used as a source
for the capital budget in the following year.



-122 -                     ANNEX 12
5.    The capital budget as a proportion of the operating budget was as high as 50
percent in 1991 when subsidies from the central government were large. Since then, its
size relative to the operating budget has been stable at around 25 percent. Its source
includes the carryover surplus from the current budget, and revenues from special funds
such as the housing sales fund, road fund, and fixed asset sales and leases. An additional
source is the subsidy from the central government. One major source of the central
government subsidy, the apartment construction fund provided by Russian aid, dropped
dramatically in 1992 and was discontinued from 1994.
6.   In constant terms, both the current and capital budgets shrank substantially in
1992, mainly due to an exchange rate adjustment and hyperinflation that began in 1991.
The consequent reduction was more dramatic in the capital budget, which dropped to 14
percent in 1992 from the previous year in constant terms. As MUB did not adjust its
urban services fees to catch up with inflation, it scaled down its operation and
maintenance as well as new investments. This also brought about gradual deterioration of
the quality of urban services. Even with these adjustments, however, many urban
operations such as transportation, solid waste, and housing services resulted in losses,
which were subsequently covered by subsidies from the central government. Realizing
that this practice is not sustainable and results in waste and inefficiencies, the government
allowed tariff increases to cover the operating cost of services from 1994.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
7.    Currently, MUB does not prepare a detailed medium-term budget projection. It
hopes that it can meet the increasing demand for better urban services by various
initiatives. It will continue to push for tariff increases for various urban services to
recover the cost of services. It is also endeavoring to increase efficiency of service
delivery by introducing competition and privatization where warranted.
8.    One of the most important initiatives is the imminent housing privatization, which
will also affect the municipal budget. The privatization of apartments will allow the
Municipality to charge apartment residents fees that better reflect the cost of services.
More importantly, however, this will provide a basis for charging the new owners with
property taxes. The total value of apartments in MUB, with space totaling 22 million m2,
is estimated at around Tug 330 billion. Although the timing, the tax rate as well as the
allocation of tax revenue between the central and municipal government need to be
decided in the future, the introduction of a property tax on privatized apartments will give
the municipal budget a major boost.
9.    MUB also recently launched the MUB Infrastructure Development Fund, initially
funded by donations, and plans to expand the fund with various sources including
auctioning off land tenures for buildings, charging immigration fees into MUB and other
miscellaneous fees. To be more effective, this fund will require more sustainable funding
sources.



-123 -                     ANNEX 12
10.   Despite the various initiatives already introduced, MUB realizes that it needs a
more comprehensive and systematic approach to improve its municipal finance to meet
the increasing and changing need for urban services and infrastructure in a transitional
economy. It plans to carry out a study on municipal finance with the support of a
bilateral donor.
11.   MUB's cash flow projection, which includes the proposed project investment and
debt services, is developed and attached. Even with conservative assumption of no
property tax from apartments, it confirms the fact that MUB will not face cash flow
problems as the cash inflow from USAG more than offsets its cash outflow to GOM.
Moreover, actual revenues of MUB are expected to be greater, with the introduction of
property tax on apartments.



-124 -                                         ANNEX 12
MUB CASH FLOW PROJECTION
[Current (Inflated) Tug Million]
Actual      Budget                                  Forecast
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Sources of Capital Funds
Project Loan                         0       0        0   1,874   3,349   5,518   3,413   3,096        0       0       0       0
AusAIDGrant                          0       0        0     421   1,020   1,288     872     891        0       0       0       0
Municipal Funds                    455   2,127       30   1,206   1,470   1,380     757   1,154   1,546   2,015   2,573   3,234
GOM                                840     150      720   2,800   3,000   4,900   4,044   3,900        0       0       0       0
Infrastructure Fund                                         753   1,111   1,544   1,535   1,674   1,826   1,991   2,172   2,369
Other funds                        939   1,482   2,900   4,476   5,998   8,462  10,662  12,315  14,224  16,428  18,975  21,916
Total Capital Sources          2,234   3,759   3,650  11,531  15,948  23,092  21,284  23,030  17,596  20,435  23,720  27,518
Current Sources
Personal Income Tax               1,243   3,214   2,280   3,523   5,080   6,802   8,407   9,525  10,792  12,227  13,853  15,696
Economic Entities                 5,703   6,076   6,607   9,911  13,875  18,037  21,645  23,809  26,190  28,809  31,690  34,859
Other Taxes                       2,422   3,461   4,393   5,789   7,294   9,190  10,615  12,260  14,161  16,355  18,891  21,819
Income OtherThan Taxes             918   2,536   5,099   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649   7,649
Total Current Sources         10,373  15,329  18,448  27,846  39,132  51,070  61,529  67,959  75,070  82,933  91,629 101,249
Debt Service From USAG
USAG                                 0       0        0      47     177     399     622     785   1,662   1,662   1,662   1,662
TOTAL SOURCES                 12,607  19,088  22,098  39,423  55,258  74,562  83,435  91,774  94,327 105,029 117,011 130,430
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure
Project Costs
GerAreasUpgrading                 0        0       0     421   1,020   1,288      872     891       0       0       0        0
USAG                              0        0       0   2,567   3,349   5,518   3,413   3,565        0       0       0        0
Total Project Capital Costs       0        0       0   2,988   4,369   6,806   4,285   4,456        0       0       0        0
Other Capital Expenditures        2,234   3,760   4,620   6,791   8,523  10,228  12,273  13,501  14,851  16,336  17,970  19,766
Total Capital Expenditures     2,234   3,760   4,620  12,767  17,262  23,840  20,844  22,414  14,851  16,336  17,970  19,766
Debt Service
ProjectLoan-PaidtoGOM                                        47     177     399     622     785   1,662   1,662   1,662   1,662
Operating Expenditures
Salaries & Related               2,966   6,058   8,350  12,525  17,535  22,796  27,355  30,090  33,099  36,409  40,050  44,055
Heating &Electricity              1,825   2,290   2,280   3,933   6,332   9,467  11,360  12,496  13,745  15,120  16,632  18,295
Other                             5,191   7,173   6,612   9,918  13,885  18,051  21,661  23,827  26,210  28,831  31,714  34,885
Total Operating Expenditures    9,982  15,521  17,242  26,376  37,752  50,313  60,375  66,413  73,054  80,360  88,396  97,235
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            12,216  19,281  21,862  39,190  55,192  74,552  81,842  89,612  89,567  98,357 108,027 118,664
Total Surplus                      391    -192     236      233      66      10   1,593   2,163   4,760   6,672   8,984  11,766
Operating Surplus                  391    -192   1,206   1,470   1,380      757   1,154   1,546   2,015   2,573   3,234   4,014
Nole: Actual revenue will largely depend on planned property tax based on newly privatized apartments.
Inflation rate (%)                             47    25.5      20      20      10      10       10      10      10       10



-125 -                                            ANNEX 12
MUB CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Tug million)
Actual                             Budget
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995        1996
INCOME
Tax Income
Personal Income Tax                                                     51        124         626       1,243       3,214       2,280
Income from Economic Entities                                         541       2,071       3,345       5,790       6,11S       6,676
Trade Tax                                                             487          12         893       1,544       2,110       2,493
Special Tax                                                              -           -        178         155        393         453
Vehicle Tax                                                             2           4         135         167         180        187
Property Tax (guns, inheritance, etc.)                                               -          0           8          23          13
Total Tax Income                                                    1,081       2,210       5,177      8,907      12,038      12,102
Other Taxes and Fees
State Stamp Fees                                                        7          13          16         194        245         950
Other Fees                                                              9          67         277         354         510        297
Total Other Taxes and Fees                                             16          81        292         548         755       1,247
Income Other Than Taxes
Income From Activity & Property                                        50           7           1          34          40         72
Income from Interest and Fines                                           5         37         164         456       1,191        818
Deduction from Health Insurance Funds                                    -           -          -           -           -           -
Other Income                                                            50           -        179         428       1,305       1,208
Total Income Other Than Taxes                                         105          44        344         918       2,536       2,098
Other Unspecified                                                        15         35          72           -           -       3,001
TOTAL INCOME                                                        1,216       2,369       5,885      10,373     15,329      18,448
Total as Reported                                                                                        10,372      15,327      18,750
Discrepancy                                                                                                   1           2        (302)
OPERATING EXPENDITURES
Salaries                                                               340         634       1,227       2,563       5,142       7,089
Social Insurance                                                        45          82         155         403         916       1,261
Heating                                                                   -        915        1,512      1,831       1,831
Electricity                                                               -        203         313         459         449
Other                                                                  457        1,134      2,460       3,591       5,930       6,086
Fee for Public Transport                                                 19         76          74       1,257         440           -
Milk Subsidy                                                             10           -          5            -          7           -
Street Lighting                                                          21          0         144         162        478         220
Subsidy to Households                                                     -           -          -         168         318         306
Leakage of Elect & Heat                                                   6           -           -         13           -           -
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                          897       1,925       5,184      9,982      15,521      17,242
Total As Reported                                                                                         9,982      15,521      17,241
Discrepancy                                                                                                   -           -          (1)
Operating Surplus (Deficit)                                           319         444        701         391        (192)      1,206
Total As Reported                                                                                           390        (194)      1,509
Discrepancy                                                                                                  (1)         (2)        303
CAPITAL WORKS EXPENDITURES
Centralized Budget (GOM Funded)
Water, Wastewater & Solid Waste                                          -           -          -          38          55        370
Other Works                                                              -           -                    802          95        350
Total Centralized Budget                                               61          66        208         840         150         720
Municipal Budget (Funded from MUJB Reserves)
Water Wastewater & Solid Waste                                           -           -          -         221         254          30
Other Works                                                                          -          -         234       1,873           -
Total Municipal Budget                                                174         121           -        455       2,127          30
Fixed Assets Sales & Lease Fund                                          87         97         207         290         335        650
Apartment Construction Fund                                             247         190        434           -           -           -
Housing Sales Fund                                                        8         53          51         457         907       1,700
Road Fund                                                                15          10         53         192         240         550
TOTAL CAPITAL WORKS EXPENDITURES                                      593         538        953        2,234      3,760       3,650
TOTAL OPERATING & CAPITAL WORKS EXPENDITURES                          912         981       1,655       2,625      3,568       4,856



ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal and Project Organization and Management
Government of-
Mongolia
City iural              I  Mayor of Capital
(Council)                  Governor of Cty |
-  I       .- .                            ,                                          I
Vice Mayor                                                                             City General
- -    -    -    -    -     -     -       -   -   -   -   -  -         Manager
I                                           IA
.. 1 :: ::::: :.:.:1: - :. .. I.I                                                                            I 
Administration &                              Financial        Social Policy     Strategic Policy &       Construction &      Engineering Network    Production and      Quality
Management                                  Division           Division        Planning Division          City Planning      & Housing Division      Services          Control
Divihion                                                                                                  Division                                 Division          Division
| Project                    I 
e nt         *           -  -  -- - - - - - - --                                                    _
ManagJemtent  -4---1 
I     Unit                               I m
DUUREG Administration     Customs               I  Finance                                                                                  bStatistic  Ger  USAG   Autous
Department            Department         Department.                                  Infrastructure                           Companies.
|  sukhwatar  a  Polce               |  eatet   |         eit |  epartmenti                                                  OSNIAAK|Elt i |
h6-               PoIep tmaxton                           HalhDeatmn                                                                               Electricity
Sukhbaatar  1         -~~~~~~    [Department    I        ~      .Generation
--          I                 I                                                                 I              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stations.
Songino-   1        Environment &              |-                                                                            NUUTS - Solid
|  Khairkhan   |  |    Natural            -Financial            Education                                                       Waste
Resources           Auditing            Department
Department. I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oman                                                                  ea mpr
Bay2ngo                                     Dept.   IExport
-- i-                  *                                         j                                                               |  ! Oepartment I Dent |ortp|
-an -K    i       Justice Dept.         Property              Culture                                                       Apartment             Company
Department          Department.                                                     Distribution
I                       I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Department
-- |  Bayanzurkh  |                                                                                                                                        Other
,Sports Department                                                                       Municipal
Children Youth &
Wornen's
Department
|e~wiy                                         |Line of responsibility relationshps
Social Security                                          - - - -_-roject management relationships
iDevartment



-127 -                       ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, PROJECTIONS AND
ASSUMPTIONS FOR USAG
A. BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
1.    Price Escalation. In line with the Bank's forecasts, domestic and foreign price
escalation was estimated as follows.
Year                  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Local Inflation(%)     25.5  20.0   20    10    10    10    10    10    10
Intemational Inflation(%)    2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Exchange Rate (Tug/$)  753   926  1,088  1,279  1,395  1,478  1,588  1,708  1,836
2.    Tariff Rate. The new tariff structure effective from October 1996 is assumed to
be committed to apply during 1997 for the analysis. The tariffs, however, are assumed to
be escalated in line with inflation from 1998 on. For the "with project" case, however,
three major changes are assumed:
(a)    Tariffs charged to ger area residents would fall to the same level as those
for apartment dwellers owing to the introduction of piped water supply in
ger areas;
(b)   A one-step tariff system will be introduced for apartment dwellers with the
installation of block meters. In the base case, consumption over 230 lcd
will be charged at the same rate as for industrial consumers. Accordingly,
average consumption for apartment residents is assumed to reduce to
230 lcd for the initial years. In practice, the criteria as well as the penalty
rate will be adjusted based on feedback from consumption patterns;
(c)    To ease the transition to a metering system from the current norm of
150 lcd, the tariff for apartment dwellers is assumed to decrease to a level
so that there will be no increase in the water bill if they consume 230 lcd.
3.    Block Metering. Installation of block meters will be completed during the first
three years of the project for all apartment units and industries. Installation of individual
meters will be encouraged, but would remain optional.
B. INCOME STATEMENT ASSUMPTIONS
4.    Capital Cost. The project's capital cost was developed on the basis of a detailed
schedule of capital equipment and civil works requirements. In addition, $2 million



-128 -                     ANNEX 13
investment in 1997 is assumed to be supplied by grant from JICA to help install meters in
CTPs and to fund other urgent repairs.
5.    Onlending Conditions. IDA funds will be onlent from the central govermnent to
USAG with the following terms and conditions:
Maturity:      20 years with a grace period of 5 years
Interest Rate  5 percent
6.    Electricity Price. The new electricity price which was increased over 60 percent
in 1996 is used as a base cut, which is then assumed to increase with the general inflation
rate.
7.    Special Fund for Maintenance and Repair. To address the problem of curtailed
budget for repair and maintenance, a special fund for maintenance and repair will be set
up. The current expenditure for maintenance will be increased by 10 percent in real terms
for the next five years and will remain at that level, with adjustments for inflation.
8.    Depreciation.  As most of USAG's existing assets were revalued recently,
historical depreciation will continue to be used for the existing assets.  For new
equipment, 25 percent declining balance depreciation will be used while civil works will
be depreciated with a 40-year straight-line method.
9.    Water Production  Currently, uncharged water amounts to 49 percent of
USAG's total water production. This is a combination of Unaccounted For Water (UFW)
and uncharged consumption of nonmetered consumers. It is assumed that uncharged
consumption of nonmetered consumers will drastically decline so that UFW will be 25
percent.
10.   Collection Ratio. In view of the transition to a new tariff structure, and metering
and possibly collection method, conservative assumptions are adopted for the collection
ratio despite the improvement in the kantor charging system. The collection ration of
institutions and apartments will increase gradually to a normal level.



CASH FLOW STATEMENT
[Current (Inflated) Tug'OOO)
Actual        Budget                                          Forecast
1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004     2005
INFLOW OF FUNDS (SOURCES OF FUNDS)
Funding from Operation
Operating Income                              -2,123    52,673   166,436   261,025   295,519   617,169   729,018  1,041,216 1,535,338  1,953,242 2,316,275 2,750,212
Depreciation                                  74,248    82,058    71,932   100,285   243,496   419,591   689,806   800,712   921,682   856,587   804,933   763,561
Internal Cash Generation                  72,125   134,731   238,368   361,309   539,015 1,036,759 1,418,824 1,841,927 2,457,020 2,809,829 3,121,207 3,513,773
Funding from Outside Sources
Project Borrowing                                  -        -         - 2,006,199 3,348,820 5,725,226 3,413,141  3,374,390      -         -         -         -
AusAID                                                                          -        -         -         -         -
UB Budget for Project                              -        -         -  692,702         -         -         -  468,533
Foreign Grants                                     -   39,049         - 1,449,920                                      -
Total Capital Cost Sources                     -   39,049         - 4,148,820 3,348,820 5,725,226 3,413,141 3,842,923        -        -         -         -   -
TOTAL INFLOW OF FUNDS                     72,125   173,780   238,368 4,510,130 3,887,834 6,761,986 4,831,965 5,684,850 2,457,020 2,809,829 3,121,207 3,513,773   uD
EXPENDITURES (APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS)
Capital Costs
Ger Area
Project                                         -         -         - 1,437,839   737,565 2,315,641   939,560  1,459,429      -         -         -        -
Other                                      165,308    33,683    25,500    53,434    64,121    76,945    84,639    31,110    11,490    12,639    13,903    15,294
Central City Area
Project                                         -         -         - 1,261,062 2,611,255 3,409,585  2,473,581  2,383,494     -         -        -         -
Other                                       12,603    61,628    17,520  1,517,267    82,459    98,951   113,344   124,678   137,146   150,861   165,947   182,542
Total Capital Expenditures               177,912    95,311    43,020 4,269,601 3,495,400 5,901,122 3,611,124 3,998,712   148,636   163,500   179,850   197,835
Debt Payment
Total Debt Payments                               -         -   50,155   184,030   410,882   639,341   809,029  1,721,422 1,721,422  1,721,422  1,721,422        z
TOTAL OUTFLOW OF FUNDS                   177,912    95,311    43,020 4,319,756 3,679,430 6,312,004 4,250,465 4,807,741  1,870,059 1,884,922 1,901,272 1,919,257   >
TOTAL CASH SURPLUS (SHORTFALL)    -105,787    78,469   195,348   190,373   208,404   449,982   581,500   877,110   586,961   924,906  1,219,935 1,594,515    w



INCOME STATEMENT
[Current (Inflated) Tug'OOO)
Actual         Budget                                                Forecast
1994      1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       2004       2005
Sales Revenue
Water Revenue
Institutions                   486,372    550,382    747,700  1,242,253   1,600,022  2,081,768  2,455,062  2,864,829  3,376,406  3,899,749  4,504,210  5,202,363
Apartments                      88,262    199,303    290,000    485,096    608,687    754,495    856,872    983,027  1,126,632  1,251,688  1,390,626  1,544,985
Ger area                       148,576    149,893    132,376    165,050    223,512    274,916    256,944    124,081    158,653    177,498    198,600    222,230
Total Water Revenue          723,210    899,578  1,170,076  1,892,399  2,432,221  3,111,179  3,568,878  3,971,938  4,661,691  5,328,936  6,093,436  6,969,578
Sewerage Fee                    555,413    698,805   1,002,000   1,649,977  2,109,775  2,709,219  3,163,583  3,675,501  4,301,335  4,920,691   5,630,790  6,445,116
Others                                -    22,280      27,200          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -
Total Sales Revenue         1,278,624  1,620,662  2,199,276  3,542,375  4,541,996  5,820,398  6,732,461  7,647,438  8,963,026  10,249,626 11,724,226 13,414,694
Costs of Operations
Ger Operations Total             186,905    256,117    301,527    461,069    560,391    680,849    751,134    809,483    820,501    909,768  1,008,861   1,118,878
Central City
Non-Maint Salaries & Related    83,523    117,861    169,796    236,721    289,839    347,807    398,397    438,237    482,060    530,266    583,293    641,622
Power                          824,476    943,785   1,101,700  1,939,809  2,467,589  2,923,436  3,198,512  3,460,501   3,822,246  4,205,453  4,753,525  5,374,954
System Maintenance              32,388    46,049    105,394    161,630    217,688    287,348    362,058    438,090    530,089    641,408    776,104    939,085
Other Variable                 42,923     52,269    110,070    153,455    187,888    225,466    258,261    284,087    312,496    343,745    378,120    415,932
OtherFixed                      36,283    53,184    104,458    145,631    178,309    213,970    245,093    269,603    296,563    326,219    358,841    394,725
Central Operations Total    1,019,594  1,213,147  1,591,418  2,637,245  3,341,313  3,998,026  4,462,321  4,890,517  5,443,454  6,047,092  6,849,882  7,766,319
Total Costs of Operation    1,206,499  1,469,264  1,892,945  3,098,314  3,901,704  4,678,876  5,213,455  5,700,000  6,263,955  6,956,859  7,858,744  8,885,197
Less Taxes Paid                       -     16,667     67,963     82,753    101,278    104,763    100,182    105,511    242,052    482,938    744,275  1,015,725
Total Expenditures          1,206,499  1,485,931  1,960,908  3,181,066  4,002,981  4,783,639  5,313,637  5,805,511  6,506,007  7,439,797  8,603,019  9,900,922
Income before Depreciation    72,125    134,731    238,368    361,309    539,015  1,036,759  1,418,824  1,841,927  2,457,020  2,809,829  3,121,207  3,513,773
Depreciation                      74,248    82,058     71,932    100,285    243,496    419,591    689,806    800,712    921,682    856,587    804,933    763,561
Operating Income              -2,123     52,673    166,436    261,025    295,519    617,169    729,018  1,041,216  1,535,338  1,953,242  2,316,275  2,750,212
Interest Expense                      -          -          -    50,155    184,030    410,882    639,341    809,029    893,389    851,987    808,515    762,870
Net Profit Before Tax         -2,123     69,340    234,399    210,870    111,489    206,287   89,677    232,187    641,949  1,101,255  1,507,759  1,987,342
Tax Payable to MUB (40%)              -    27,268      48,056     84,348    44,595     82,515     35,871    92,875    256,779    440,502    603,104    794,937
Net Profit After Tax          -2,123     42,072    186,343    126,522    66,893    123,772    53,806    139,312    385,169    660,753    904,656  1,192,405



BASIC PARAMETERS AND INDICATORS
Actual         Budget                                            Forecast
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      2005
Basic Parameters
Water Consumption('000 m3)
Institutions                              13,287    14,063    13,552    14,230    14,941    15,688    16,473    17,296    18,161    19,069    20,023    21,024
Apartments                                32,003    29,221    32,914    33,572    31,138    28,653    26,517    25,618    24,698    23,757    23,995    24,235
Ger area                                     880       848       821       821        963     1,163      1,423     1,702     1,941     1,984     2,028      2,074
Unaccounted for Water(UFW)                15,390    14,721    15,782    16,228    15,701    13,861    12,290    11,154    11,200    11,203    11,511    11,833
Total Water                            61,561    58,854    63,069    64,851    62,744    59,364    56,703    55,770    56,000    56,013    57,557    59,165
% of UFW                                      25        25        25        25         25        23        22        20        20         20        20        20
Meter Installation (% metered)
Institutions                                  56        70        57        57         72        86       100       100        100       100       100       100
Apartments                                     0         0         0         0         35        70       100       100        100       100       100       100
Consumption Level (Ipd)
Apartment                                    300       270       300       230        230       230       230       220       210        200       200       200
Ger area                                     9.5       9.5        9.5       9.5      11.6      13.7       15.8      17.9      20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0
Piped Supply in Ger(%)                         1.8       2.5       2.8       2.8       16.2      29.7      43.1      56.6      70.0       70.0      70.0      70.0
Collection Rate (°/)
Institutions                                 100       100       100        90         92        95        97        98        100       100       100       100
Apartments                                    98        98       100        85         88        90        92        95        98         98        98        98
Ger area (Pipe)                               45        40        36        54         72        90        90        90        90         90        90        90
Financial Indicators(Current Tug Million)
Operating Revenue                          1,278.6   1,620.7   2,199.3   3,542.4   4,542.0   5,820.4   6,732.5   7,647.4   8,963.0  10,249.6  11,724.2  13,414.7
Operating Expenditure                      1,206.5   1,485.9   1,960.9   3,181.1   4,003.0   4,783.6   5,313.6   5,805.5   6,506.0   7,439.8   8,603.0   9,900.9
Net Operating Income                       72.1      134.7     238.4     361.3     539.0   1,036.8   1,418.8   1,841.9   2,457.0   2,809.8   3,121.2   3,513.8
Depreciation                                   74        82         72       100       243       420       690        801       922       857       805        764
Debt Service                                     -         -         -        50       184       411       639        809      1,721     1,721     1,721     1,721
Oper. Income> larger (Depr,Debt Serv.)         -2        53        166       261       296       617       729      1,033       736      1,088     1,400     1,792
NetProfit before Tax                         -2        69       234       211        111       206        90       232        642     1,101     1,508      1,987
Affordability(1996 constant Tug)
Average Water Tariff/person/year              694       990        965      1,335     1,309     1,309     1,257     1,257      1,257     1,257     1,257     1,257   D.
Average per capita Income                        -    24,057    31,274    31,587    31,903    32,222    32,544    32,869    33,198    33,530    33,865    34,204
Water Bill/Income (%/6)                          -      0.43      0.32      0.44      0.43       0.42      0.40      0.40      0.39       0.39      0.39      0.38



-132 -                     ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
CHOICE OF SECTOR
1.    The quality of urban services in Mongolia has deteriorated badly since the
withdrawal of Soviet assistance in 1990 and the resulting economic crisis. Since 1990,
most capital investment and expansion projects have been halted, and rehabilitation, even
minor repairs of existing assets, has been severely curtailed. In general, the formal utility
services face severe equipment problems. All equipment originated from FSU countries
and is now difficult to replace or maintain with spares because of the severance of
relationships with previous suppliers and inadequate hard currency to pay for imports.
For instance, more than 10 percent of the wells in the well fields supplying Ulaanbaatar
are inoperative due to faulty pumps; the municipal sewage plant treats only 75 percent of
the sewage due to defective pumps and equipment; and pipe breaks take three to four
days to repair due to lack of materials and equipment.
2.    Low levels of cost recovery, typical of the Soviet era when users contributed little
and utilities received substantial subsidies for new investments, have exacerbated service
delivery problems. Metering-whether water, heat, or power-on apartment blocks or
individual premises is almost nonexistent. Water and sewerage are billed on the basis of
consumption norms, and collection of bills. While tariff levels cover full costs of the
present low level of operations and depreciation, they would be insufficient to cover costs
required to fund adequate levels of maintenance and rehabilitation, much less new
investments in the systems.
3.    In mid-1994, the Government's concern about the condition of Mongolia's cities,
which had begun to show the effects of several years of forced neglect, caused it to
request Association assistance in carrying out an informal review of urban services in
Mongolia's main cities. In particular, urban issues were assessed from the perspective of
two government goals:   poverty alleviation and devolution of functions and
responsibilities to local governments. The findings of the review were discussed at
length with the Government, and the proposed project designed to meet the twin goals of
poverty alleviation and improved sector efficiency. In preparing project assistance to the
poor ger areas, a menu of possible improvements was discussed with representatives of
the 12 ger communities, who were able to choose the specific types of investments most
needed in their areas.  Consultation with the representatives continued throughout
preparation. The result is a project tailored to the needs of both the Municipality and the
ger residents and strong ownership of the initiatives planned, and balanced with
Mongolia's debt servicing capacity.



-133 -                      ANNEX 14
4.    Ger Infrastructure Improvements-Economic Evaluation.  Planned Ger
improvement covers various subcomponents reflecting the priorities of the Ger residents,
generating various economic benefits. Most of these benefits, though hard to quantify,
are substantial and directly accrue to Ger residents. Provision of total length of 10.8 km
roads, a bridge, and 28.1 km all-weather footpaths with four footbridges in areas with the
most critical needs can help save substantial time for the residents to haul coal and wood,
other household goods, as well as to fetch water. For example, the maximum travel
distance for 20 kg water fetching will be reduced from the maximum of 700 m to 350 m,
and the footpaths will help ease the labor of water fetching usually carried out by women
and children. The benefit from easier fuel hauling is no less significant, considering the
bulky nature of coal and wood and its position as the second largest expenditure item in
Ger areas. The estimated time saved or water fetching alone would amount to over 1O
million hours/year for 86,000 people, and similar saving is expected for coal, wood and
other household supplies. Paved roads can also substantially save the fuel cost and
maintenance expenditure for delivery trucks and other vehicles, as well as save the time
for delivery.  The economic rate of return for $1.4 million investment for road
construction is estimated to be over 40 percent. Construction and operation of public
bathhouses and laundries can improve the health of Ger residents.  Likewise,
improvement in solid waste collection would improve the hygiene of Ger areas
considerably. Equally important are the benefits from the construction of the stormwater
drainage in flood-prone areas, which can help reduce the property damage as well as
avoid the loss of human lives. In addition to these direct benefits, overall infrastructure
improvements would motivate the voluntary investments for further improvements in
each individual plot by each household. Some of these benefits would be captured by the
increase in property prices, particularly in light of the forthcoming privatization of urban
land. Poor families, in particular, are likely to aim to increase their income by renting
space to other families. The large plots and low density of development in Ulaanbaatar
ger area provide substantial scope for rental units. Because of the lack of a legal property
market in UB, the rapidly-shifting effects of the transition from public to private
ownership and from a managed to a market economy and the lack of data on land prices,
the above-mentioned benefits from upgrading have not been quantified. The benefits
captured in land prices change over time, also depend closely on the location of particular
Ger areas in relation to city economic activity centers, transportation services and city
economic growth. However, the experience with slum upgrading for low-income
populations in other countries is that unit land prices experience a one-time increase of
between 25 and 27 percent of preimprovement value, while the expenditure on
investment in housing and related on-plot infrastructure, such as sanitation, jumps from a
few percent of household income to as much as 30 percent or more of household income.
OVERVIEW
5.    The project comprises three major components: water supply in the Ger area,
water supply in central city area, and Ger area upgrading. As each component's
economic benefit has different features, the analysis is carried out by component.



-134-                       ANNEX 14
WATER SUPPLY INVESTMENTS
6.    In the Ger area, the benefits and costs are quantified to the extent possible. The
major benefit is the increased consumption of water to the level of 20 lcd, which is
considered the minimum requirement for health and hygiene. This benefit is measured
using the 1995 price of water adjusted to the end-1996 price level as a proxy for
consumers' willingness to pay. Additional benefits are derived from the reduction of
capital investments to purchase tanks and trucks and recurrent costs to maintain a larger
fleet of trucks as a result of piped water supply to kiosks to cover 70 percent of the Ger
area population. The EIRR is estimated at 18 percent. It should be noted that the major
benefits of the project, measured as a gap between willingness to pay and actual payment,
will accrue to Ger residents. There are other substantial benefits, although difficult to
quantify. The additional consumption of potable water will substantially enhance the
level of hygiene in Ger areas, and project investments to facilitate access to the public
water kiosks will also help relieve the labor burden of women and children, who are
traditionally responsible for hauling water.
7.    Benefit-cost analysis for water supply investments in the central city area
compares the incremental costs and benefits of the "with project" and "without project"
cases, using shadow prices to reflect economic costs to the country. Unlike traditional
projects, the benefits come from the reduced consumption of valuable resources rather
than from incremental benefits or production. In fact, the water production will decrease
with the project. The "with project" case assumes that, with the introduction of block
metering and step tariffs, the wastage of water will substantially decrease, requiring fewer
resources capital investments to purchase tanks and trucks. The benefits of treating less
wastewater as well as using fewer resources for water production are captured as USAG
covers both operations. The resultant EIRR of 14 percent, however, underrepresented the
benefits since the unquantifiable benefits of having a more stable water supply with
higher water pressure backed up by reservoirs have been excluded from the analysis.
Another major nonquantifiable benefit is the enhanced efficiency and accountability
derived from institutional strengthening supported by project technical assistance.
8.    The weighted average EIRR for the water supply components is estimated to be
15 percent, although this excludes the significant unquantifiable benefits of better
maintenance and repair, which would reduce future capital investment requirements
considerably, benefits of easier access to the piped water in Ger areas, and benefits from
the institutional strengthening component such as improved management and
strengthened accountability.
GER AREA INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
9.    Ger Infrastructure Improvements-Economic Evaluation.  Ger upgrading
would increase property values and property rentals, particularly in light of the
forthcoming privatization of urban land, which will almost certainly strengthen ger tenure
rights. Experience in other countries also shows that the upgrading, combined with better



-135-                      ANNEX14
tenure tights encourages a majority of households to increase the investment on their
property in housing, on-plot sanitation and rental units. Additional indirect benefits of
upgrading coupled with tenure improvements are increases in property tax revenues-
which are likely to be imposed in Ulaanbaatar with the privatization of land and increases
in household income. Poor families, in particular, are likely to aim to increase their
income by renting space to other families.  The large plots and low density of
development in Ulaanbaatar ger area provide substantial scope for rental units. Because
of the lack of a legal property market in UB, the rapidly-shifting effects of the transition
from public to private ownership and from a managed to a market economy and the lack
of data on land prices, the above-mentioned benefits from upgrading have not been
quantified. The benefits captured in land prices change over time, also depend closely on
the location of particular Ger areas in relation to city economic activity centers,
transportation services and city economic growth. However, the experience with slum
upgrading for low-income populations in other countries is that unit land prices
experience a one-time increase of between 25 and 27 percent of preimprovement value,
while the expenditure on investment in housing and related on-plot infrastructure, such as
sanitation, jumps from a few perfect of household income to as much as 30 percent or
more of household income. Upgrading would result in large additional unquantified
benefits including: savings in the time and energy expended mostly by women and
children who fetch and haul water from kiosks to homes; improvements and health and
savings in time lost from school and work due to illness; and avoided costs of damage to
property due to flooding.
ASSUMPTIONS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF GER AREA WATER SUPPLY
10.   All benefits and costs are expressed in constant 1996 monetary terms. Price
escalation as well as taxes and duties are excluded. The economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) is calculated for the 20-year period with a discount rate of 12 percent.
Revenue
11.   Water Consumption. Without the project, actual per capita water consumption
was estimated at 9.5 lcd in the Ger area. The project will gradually increase the per capita
water consumption to 20 lcd, which is regarded as the minimum hygienic requirement
and is consistent with the typical average amount consumed by low-income households
who must carry their water from standpipes. In addition, total water consumption is
expected to increase in line with the population increase estimated to be 2.2 percent per
year.
12.   Willingness to Pay. As a proxy for the economic benefit, the unit water price of
Tug 400 in 1995 was used. This was adjusted to the constant 1996 price at Tug 600, and
the new tariff rate was deducted to measure the net benefit.



-136 -                       ANNEX 14
Capital Cost
13.   Investment. Investment costs including physical contingencies for the Ger area
piped water supply system are used for the "with project" case.
14.   Tanker Trucks. USAG' tanker subsidiary currently has 49 tanker trucks. Under
the "without project" case, the required tanks and trucks is assumed to gradually increase
to 50 each for the 10-year period, while under the "with project" case, the same number
would decrease to 30, reflecting the growing increase of the piped supply to kiosks. The
average price for a new truck and tank is assumed to be $18,000 and $900, respectively,
and the average life of a tank and a truck is assumed to be 10 years each.
Recurrent Costs
15.   Recurrent operating and maintenance costs are divided into three components:
salary and related expenses, fuel and vehicle related expenses, and others. Fuel and other
vehicle-related costs are directly affected by the number of trucks and tanks. Salary-
related expenses and other costs are also adjusted accordingly. The reduction in salaries
and "others" are transferred to the central city area benefit-cost analysis, as the extra
human resources are assumed to be absorbed in the central city area operation.
Economic Cost
16.   Conversion Factor. The conversion factors used to convert electricity price is
1.33 for the first three years, and this will gradually converge to 1.0 in 2002 in line with
the expected price increase. As for the labor cost, a conversion factor of 1.4 was used to
reflect the lagging wage adjustments under high inflation.
17.   Sensitivity Test. A test to measure the sensitivity of EIRR of the water supply
component was carried out for major variables, including different level of water
consumption by ger residents as well as apartment residents. If the average water
consumption by ger residents turns out to be 15 lcd and 25 lcd, rather than assumed
20 lcd, the resultant EIRR would change to 14 and 17.8 percent, respectively. Likewise,
if the average apartment resident consume 200 lcd and 250 lcd of water instead of 230 lcd
in the base case, the EIRR would be 16.7 and 14.4 percent, respectively. This is
consistent with the analysis, as the major sources of economic benefits are increased
welfare in Ger area and the savings of valuable resources from the reduction of waste in
apartments. Thus, even under the unfavorable scenarios of lower water consumption in
Ger area or less-than-expected level of wastage reduction in apartments, the project
remains viable. It is also important to note that, under both scenarios, the effect on the
financial viability of the project is negligible.



-137 -                      ANNEX 14
SENSITIVITY TEST TABLE
EIRR (%)
Assumptions                              Ger      USAG Central    Total
Ger Average Consumption  15 lcd          13.3          14.4          14.0
20 lcd          18.2         14.4          15.9
25 lcd          22.5         14.4          17.8
Apartment Consumption    200 lcd         18.2          15.6          16.7
230 lcd         18.2         14.4          15.9
250 lcd         18.2         11.8          14.4



-138-                                                   ANNEX14
GER AREA WATER SUPPLY ECONOMIC COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
YEARS 15 TO 20 NOT SHOWN IN PRINTOUT
(Constant 1996 Tug '000)
Project year:        1        2          3        4         5        6        7       8        9       10       11       12      13       14
Calendar year:     1997     1998        1999    2000       2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
WITHOUT           THE
PROJECT
Capital Costs
Project                               -         -         -         -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -             -
Trucks & Tanks              37,800   47,250     47,250   56,700    47,250   56,700   56,700   56,700   56,700   56,700   56,700   56,700  56,700   56,700
Other                        4,777    4,777      4,777    4,777      4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777
Total                     42,577   52,027     52,027   61,477    52,027   61,477  61,477   61,477   61,477   61,477   61,477   61,477   61,477   61,477
Costs of Operation
Salaries & Related         134,347  134,768     135,197  135,637   136,086  136,546  137,016  137,496  145,756  140,089  141,114  142,320  141,174  141,536
Fuel, Vehicle-Related      159,452  162,952     166,532  170,192   173,935  177,763  181,677  185,680  181,707  183,021  183,469  182,732  183,074  113,092
Other                       77,484   80,856      84,725   84,807    84,891   84,976   85,064   85,153   85,543   94,625   97,936  102,306  108,004  112,574
Total                    371,2S3  378,576    386,454  390,636   394,912 39,285  403,757  408,330 413,006 417,736 422,519  427,353 432,252  437,202
TOTAL COSTS              413,860  430,603    438,481  452,113   446,939 460,762  465,234  469,807 474,483 479,212  483,96  48S,85  493,729  498,679
Total Water Consumed           839      857        876      895       915      935      955     976      998    1,020    1,042    1,065    1,089    1,113
(Min m')
WITH THE PROJECT
Capital Costs
Project                  1,145,688  489,751   1,281,342  472,635   667,408
Trucks & Tnks               37,800   37,800     37,800   37,800      9,450       -        -        -            5,670        -   1,890    5,670    5,670
Other                        4,777    4,777      4,777    4,777      4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777    4.777
Total                  1,188,265  532,328   1,323,919  515,211   681,635    4,777    4,777    4,777    4,777   10,447    4,777    6,667   10,447   10,447
Costs of Operation
Salaries& Related          132,184  130,473     128,802  127,171   120,382  101,588  101,918  102,256  111,572  105,200  106,301  107,672  106,3S8  106,786
Fuel, Vehicle-Related      156,029  156,029     156,029  156,029   147,174  117,083  119,626  122,227  124,886  122,246  123,120  123,417  122,928  123,155
Other                       76,236   78,280     80,717   79,514    75,095   63,221   63,274   63,329  65,481   71,059   73,775   77,400   81,391   84,935
Total O&M Costs          367,386  372,106    376,743 377,849   370,1U3  341,110 343,838  346,627  349,479 298,505 303,196  308,489 310,707  314,876
TOTAL COSTS            1,555,651  904,433   1,700,661  893,061  1,051,817 345,887 348,615  351,403 354,255 308,952  307,972  315,155 321,154  325,323
Total WaterConsumed           839       963       1,163    1,423     1,702    1,941    1,984    2,028    2,074    2,119    2,166    2,213    2,262    2,312
(Min m3)
INCREMENTAL
COSTS AND BENEFITS
Incremental Capital Cost
Project Investment           1,146     490        1,281     473       667                                  -   -             -        -
Tanks & Trucks                  -0       -9         -9      -19       -38      -57      -57     .57      -57      -51     -57      -55      -51      -51
Total Capital Cost         1,146     480       1,272      454       630      -57      -57     -57      -57     -51      -57      -55      -51      -51
Benefit of Cost Savings
Salaries & Related               3        6          9       12        22       49      49       49       48       49      49       49       49       49
Fuel, Vehicle-Related            5        9         14       17        29       61       62      63       57       61       60      59       60       60
Other                            2        4          6        7         14      30       31      31       28       33       34      35       37       39
Total O&M Cost                9        19         29       36        65      140     142      143      133      143     143      143      146      147
Benefit from Increased
Consumption
Consumption  Increase          -      106        287      527       787    1,006    1,029    1,052    1,076    1,099    1,123    1,148    1,173    1,199
(Mln)
Willingness  to  Pay           -      60         162      299       445      569     582      595      609      622     636      650      664      679
Benefit
Total Incremental             9       79         398      335       511      709     724      739      742     765      779      793      810      826
"Benefit"
Net Benerit Flow          -1,136     -401     .1,0SI    -119       -819      766     781      795      798      816     U35      847      "I       877
Notes: Willingness to Pay value per KI: Tug 566
Return on Investment, EIRR: 16.7%
Net Present Value, NPV (Tug Min): 984



-139 -                                                     ANNEX 14
USAG CENTRAL AREA WATER SUPPLY COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
YEARS 15 TO 20 NOT SHOWN IN PRINTOUT
(Constant Tug million)
Projectyear:       1        2        3        4         5        6        7        8        9        10       11       12       13        14
Calendar year:    1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    2003       2004    2005      2006    2007      2008      2009    2010
WITHOUT PROJECT
Capital Costs
Project                                         -        -         -        -        -
Other                              1,088       48       48       48       48       48        48       48       48       48       48        48       48       48
Major Repair                                            54                        244                         498                         597
Total                           1,038       48      102       48        48      293       48       48      546       48        48      645       48       48
Costa of Operations
Salaries and Related                 170      170      170      170      170       170      170      170      170      170      170       170      170      170
Electricity                        1,302    1,533    1,809    1,858    1,909    1,961    2,007    2,055    2,105    2,156    2,208    2,261    2,316    2,372
Maintenance                          116      116      116      116      116       116      116      116      116      116       116      116      116      116
Other                                215      226      239      253      268      285       304      325      347      371      397      425       454      486
Total                           1,S02    2,045    2,333    2,397    2,463    2,532    2,597    2,665    2,737    2,813    2,891    2,972    3,056    3,144
Total Costs                     2,890    2,094    2,436    2,445    2,512    2,824    2,645    2,713    3,284    2,861    2,939    3,617    3,104    3,192
Revenues                           1,202    1,294    1,3S5    1,412    1,491    1,586    1,650    1,716    1,786    1,858    1,933    2,012    2,093    2,178
WITH THE PROJECT
Capital Coats
Project                              905    1,530    1,665    1,054      923                           .         -        -        I        2        3        4
Other                              1,088       48       48       48       48        48       48       48       48       48       48        48       48       48
Total                           1,993    1,578    1,713    1,103      972        48       48       48       48       48        49       50       51       52
Costs of Operations
SalariesandRelated                   170      170      170      170      170       170      170      170      170      170      170       170      170      170
Electricity                        1,391    1,446    1,427    1,363    1,341    1,346    1,347    1,384    1,422    1,462    1,503    1,545    1,588    1,632
Maintenance                          116      128      140      154       170      187      205      226      249      249      249       249      249      249
Other                                215      215      215      215      215      215       215      215      215      215      215      215       215      215
Total                           1,892    1,957    1,952    1,902    1,895    1,917    1,936    1,994    2,055    2,095    2,136    2,178    2,221    2,265
Total Costs                     3,884    3,535    3,665    3,004    2,867    1,966    1,985    2,042    2,104    2,143    2,185    2,228    2,272    2,318
Revenues                           1,202    1,294    1,385    1,412    1,491    1,5S6    1,650    1,716    1,7S6    1,858    1,933    2,012    2,093    2,178
INCREMENTAL COST &
BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Incremental Costs
Capital Costs                      -905   -1,530   -1,611   -1,054    -923        244         -        -     498         -        I      595        -3       -4
Operation Cost Savings
Salaries & Related                     -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        .        -        -        -         .        -
Electricity                        -120      117      508       599      625      614      660      671      682      693       705      716      728      740
Maintenance                            -      -12      -24      -38      -54      -71      -89     -110     -133      -133     -133     -133     -133      -133
Other                                 0        16       34       54       7S       99      125      154       186     219       256      294      336      380
Total Operation Cost             -120      122      518      614      647       643      696      715      735      780      823      878       931      987
Financial Income
RevenueWithoutProject              1,202    1,294    1,385    1,412    1,491    1,586    1,650    1,716    1,786    1,858    1,933    2.012    2,093    2,178
Revenue with theProject            1,202    1,294    1,385    1,412    1,491    1,586    1,650    1,716    1,786    1,858    1,933    2,012    2,093    2,178
Incremental Revenue                  -         .                                                                        -                 -        -         -
Incremental Economic Benefits                                             -        -        -        -         -            -             -             -
Net Cash Flow                  -1,024   -1,408   -1,093      -440     -277      887      696      715    1,233      780      827    1,473       928      983
EIRR: 14.4%
Net Present Value (Tug tnillion): 711
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR TOTAL INVESTMENTS
(Constant Tug million)
1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8         9       10       11       12        13       14
1997     Im 9     199      2000    2001    2002    2003    2004          2005    2006      2007    2008      2009      2010
Net Cash Flow from City Central    -1,024   -1,408   -1,093     -440     -277     S87       696      715    1,233      780      827    1,473       928      983
NetFlowfrom  GerArea              -1,136     -401   -1,081     -119    -119       766       781      795      798      816      835       847      861      877
Total Net Flow                 -2,160   -1,810   -2,174     -559      -396    1,653    1,477    1,510    2,032    I,596    1,662    2,320    1,789    1,860
EIRR: 15.3%
Net PresentValue (Tug tillion): 1,695



-140 -                     ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: GER AREA UPGRADING AND COST RECOVERY
BACKGROUND
1.    Population. The total Ger population is estimated to be about 300,000 in 1996.
Since 1991, it had been decreasing slightly, but recently started to slowly increase as
apartment construction practically ceased.
2.    About 45 percent of UB's population live in the Ger areas. The density of Ger
areas is very low, varying from 54 persons/ha in Nisek to 198 persons/ha in Gandan in
the flat, low-lying city center. A significant number of people keep animals on their plots
and some have gardens. Except for deeply-ravined Shar Khad, the population in the flat
areas to the east of the city in Bayanzurkh had been decreasing, but is likely to increase in
the future.
3.    The population forecasts suggest that the population of the Ger Areas could
double by about 2012, if gers grow faster than the rest of the city. There appear to be few
options to accommodate this increase in suitable (existing) areas, where infrastructure can
be provided.
4.    The three areas that topographically are most suited to accommodate the growth
are the flat areas in Bayanzurkh, mentioned above, the Naddam celebration site near the
airport to the southeast of the city and the central wellfield area, if other water sources can
be identified. Each of these options poses planning and development difficulties and in
order to assess these and any other options, further study is required.
5.    Incomes. Ger household incomes (in 1995/96) were as low as Tug 15,000 ($25
equivalent), or a median income of about Tug 30,000 in 1995 and Tug 40,000 in 1996,
respectively (or $55 and $60, respectively). A sample survey in 1996 indicated that
average ger incomes were about Tug 60,000, if capital expenditures were included.
Many of the Ger residents appear to be elderly pensioners, the unemployed or
underemployed and single-parent female households, for whom in the absence of
subsidized apartment housing, the Ger is an affordable housing solution.  Solid
information about apartment incomes is unavailable but it is probably safe to say that Ger
incomes are about 70 percent of those of people in apartments.
6.    Ger Locations. Most of the Gers-except for Yarmag and Nisek-are located on
the north bank of the Tuul River, the city's public water source. With the exception of
the Gandan area, the majority of Ger area is in the periphery of the city at a distance of 2
to 12 km from the built-up area of UB, which parallels the Tuul River (Table 1 below).
Many of the Ger population live on the hills to the north of the city along the Selbe and
Tolgoit River valleys, where the Ger population had been mostly increasing. These areas



-141-                      ANNEX 15
are drained by natural ravines, which increasingly erode their banks, due to dumping of
solid waste in them by Ger residents. The disruption of drainage channels combined with
a lack of paved, stabilized or graded roads, limits access by water trucks, buses and other
vehicles and also hampers residents' access to and transport from water kiosks, especially
in winter.
TABLE 1: GER AREAS
Group 1                 Group 2                  Group 3
(Level and Drained)      (Deeply Ravined)     (Flood Plain Developments)
Nisek                    Tolgoit                  100 Ail-6 Buudal
Yarmag                   Baiyankoshuu            Dambadarjaa la
Amgalan                  Denjin 1000-Zuragt La   Uliastai
Ulaankhuaran             Hailast la              21 st Apartment Building
Tsagaanhuaran            Chingeltei la
Gandan                   Dari Ekh
Shar Khad
Naran
/a Areas to receive project infrastructure improvements.
7.    During the winter months, there is severe low-level atmospheric pollution of the
City arising from the burning of coal and wood in the basic stoves used in all gers. There
have been many studies into ways of alleviating this situation, including the raising of the
height of the flues. A possible project to import Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) for
domestic use and by industry exists. The estimated annual cost for ger fuel consumption
is among the largest items of household expenditure.
8.    An increasing number of the Ger population live at altitudes above that of the
existing reservoirs close to the city and the new reservoirs to be constructed under the
project. This form of settlement needs to be constrained by a combination of revisions in
land use in the Master Plan (para. 10 below), land regulation and institutions, and
arrangements to provide or withhold services (such as water supply).
9.    Planning Considerations. Until recently, Ger areas were considered to be
temporary until apartment accommodation was built. Occupants were only given a right
to occupy by the Municipal Duuregs for an unspecified time and sometimes after
occupation of sites had taken place. This weak, impermanent form of tenure, combined
with generally low Ger incomes, inhibits investment in house construction.



-142 -                     ANNEX 15
10.   The current Master Plan was prepared in 1986, before the massive changes in
Mongolia's political and economic situation forced the curtailment of the apartment
building program. In the longer run, the inefficient current Ger layout in long lanes and
large (400-700 m 2) plots, without reservations for community open space and facilities,
will need to be redeveloped. The Master Plan needs to be revised to incorporate the
current situation in which the majority of the Ger areas are likely to develop into
permanent residential areas. Also, the form of tenure to be provided to Ger residents
under the ongoing (in 1997) program to privatize housing and land should take into
account, if possible, future needs to restructure the infrastructure and reassemble plots in
a more efficient configuration, suitable for an urban environment.
11.   Water Supply. Since the 1960s, truck tanker water supply replaced wells or
horse-borne transport; and in the 1970s water-dispensing kiosks were introduced. But the
service is unreliable.
12.   Water is usually fetched from kiosks to homes, in small-wheeled handcarts,
loaded with up to 40 kg of water, over a distance of 200-700 m, mostly by women and
children, over rough hilly, unstable and unsurfaced earth paths and roads. In the winter,
ice and snow impede access to the kiosks by both tanker trucks and ger residents and
water supply is erratic. Ger consumption from kiosks is about 8 lcd; the amount is
limited by both cost and the difficulty of transporting the water and is well below the
minimum requirement for good health and sanitation of 20 lcd. The total water
consumed in Ger areas, although probably underestimated by USAG, is only 2.2 million
m3/day, not even 2 percent of USAG's daily demand.
13.   The high costs of tankered water have been inequitably passed through to Ger
residents; they pay 20-30 times more per unit of water than apartment residents, whose
costs are subsidized by institutional water consumers (industrial, commercial and public
premises). Because of the high price of water and the difficulties in transporting it from
kiosks to homes, many Ger residents supplement their water supply from other,
sometimes unsanitary sources: rivers, surface water, wells and rainwater. During project
preparation, the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB) recognized the inequity of Ger and
apartment water charges and held ger unit charges constant while increasing apartment
charges by over 50 percent.
14.   The principal thrust of the project is to replace high-cost tankered water with
much lower-priced and better-quality water, more consistently available, from the piped
system. Standards and designs for the project water supply component are discussed in
Annexes 1. 2 and 4.
15.   Health and Sanitation. The inequity in and inadequacy of public services (lack
of adequate heating, water, sanitation and social facilities) compounded by low incomes
leads to significant nutritional, as well as morbidity and health differences, between Ger
and apartment areas. A UNICEF nutrition survey of 1993 found that infants born into ger
area families had a 60 percent higher risk of low weight than those born in apartments.



-143 -                       ANNEX 15
Also, at least 80 percent of children in the Ger who are under five years old suffer from
diarrhea in summer and acute respiratory infections in winter.  (The equivalent
percentages of children in apartments are less than 30 and 40 percent, respectively.)
Upgrading of public services and living conditions in Ger area under the project,
particularly water supply, would help relieve the hardships of the urban poor while
improving environmental conditions with attendant health benefits.
16.   There were bathhouses and washing facilities in the Ger. However, these were
privatized in the first half of the 1990s; the prices set by MUB proved to be uneconomic
and by 1996 only a few were still operating. Many Ger residents are said, perforce, to
bathe in their relatives' apartments. Surveys indicate that lack of bathhouses is regarded
as a major problem by Ger residents.
17.   The project would provide the following bathhouse and laundry facilities in
project ger areas:
(a)    Hailast. Improvement of existing facilities and addition of laundries;
(b)   Denjin and Chingeltei. A new bathhouse including laundry facilities;
(c)    Dambadarjaa. A new bathhouse including laundry facilities, and;
(d)   Gandan. Installation of a laundry facility
18.   Most Ger plots have simple pit latrines for human waste disposal. Due to the low,
but increasing densities in Ger and the nature of soils, the existing sanitation methods,
though crude, are not a major problem, except possibly in the low-lying Ger area near the
floodplain of the Tuul River.
19.   Roads and Paths. In the Ger area roads and paths are almost entirely rough earth
unconsolidated, poorly bridged and undrained. In the deeply ravined Ger area, access for
vehicles of all types and pedestrians is difficult. The lack of storm drainage channels, the
alignment of roads, often parallel to slopes, and lack of maintenance all impede and
increase the costs of access for buses, trucks and other vehicles. In addition, the terraces
of plots and access paths to them can be extremely long (up to 600 m of continuous
frontage).
20.   Criteria for Roads and Paths. Under the project, pedestrian access proposals
are based on the following criteria:
(a)   No journey of more than 150 m should be necessary on an unmade surface
when collecting water.
(b)   The total journey to collect water should not be more than 350 m.
(c)    These distances should be actual and not "as-the-crow-flies."



-144 -                      ANNEX 15
21.   The project would provide the following roads and footpaths in project ger areas:
Gandan             Roads: 2.2 km;     Footpaths: 1.8 km
Denjin 1000        Roads: 2.8 km;     Footpaths: 10.1 km
Hailast            Roads: 0.5 km      Footpaths: 6.3 km
Chingeltei         Roads: 2.0 km      Footpaths: 5.0 km    1 Road bridge
and 3 footbridges
Dambadarjaa        Roads: 3.3 km      Footpaths: 4.9 km    1 Footbridge
22.   Design Criteria - Roads and Paths
(a)   Road Widths. Pavement: 5.5 m. Shoulders: 1.25 m. (No land acquisition
required, since existing rights-of-way are generous.
(b)   Road Pavement. Asphaltic concrete and gravel. Subbase material, CBR
35; base material, CBR 60; commercial vehicles design volume: Black
Market Road-250/day. Other roads-80/day. On this basis, all roads
except for the Black Market Road would have a total pavement thickness
of 275 mm, of which Base, 175 mm, and AC surface course, 100 mm.
The more heavily trafficked Black Market Road would be as follows: a
total pavement thickness of 400 mm, of which base, 100 mm, subbase,
200 mm and AC surface course, 100 mm.
(c)   Road Crossing of Creeks and Gullies. Reinforced concrete pipe culverts
(except Chingeltei where bridge will be standard design for a 9 m span);
Maximum velocity: 3.5 m/sec.
(d)   Footpaths. 1 m wide for access to house lanes. 1.2 m wide for collector
streets in ger areas. Alignment would be generally 0.5 m from plot fences
on the side of the street/lane opposite utilities (power, telephone poles and
proposed water lines). Footpaths would be reinforced sufficiently to
withstand a 4-ton wheel load to accommodate trucks driving with one
wheel on the footpath.
(e)   Footpaths would be located according to the following criteria:
(i)   to provide direct access to kiosks.
(ii)   no plot more than 100 m from a footpath
(iii)   highest priority to steep-slope and erosion areas.



-145 -                      ANNEX 15
Solid Waste
23.   Ger used to get door-to-door solid waste collection services. The system has
deteriorated due to lack of funds for operations and is now irregular from identifiable but
uncontrolled points that are a maximum of 500 m from houses. Consequently, residents
commonly dump their waste in drainage channels and natural ravines. Drainage capacity,
thus, has been substantially reduced, causing local flooding and property damage
sometimes. The project would provide several compactor collection trucks and about 600
3-mr3 steel bins in Gandan (50); Denjin (230), Hailast (100); Chingeltei (100); and
Dambadarjaa (1 15).
Project Standards and Criteria for Solid Waste
24.   To alleviate these problems, it was considered that under the project the criteria
should be that: the maximum distance that residents should be required to carry their
solid waste should be limited; and the locations of solid waste collection points needed to
be adjacent to suitable access roads, which in the cases of deeply ravined and floodplain
areas would be have to be paved if the service was to function in all weathers.
25.   From studies of the solid waste collection service, it also became apparent that
significant improvements to the service and costs could be recovered if larger collection
trucks were employed with compactor equipment. The project therefore aims to
supplement the pedestrian-access standard and introduce a vehicular access standard such
that:
(a)   No resident should need to carry their solid waste more than 200 m to an
authorized collection point.
(b)   All-weather roads would be proposed to facilitate collection by larger
collection vehicles.
(c)   The distances should be actual and not "as-the-crow-flies."
26.   A standard of 5.5 m for road pavement width was adopted to allow two-way
working of solid waste trucks and buses within the low trafficked areas.
27.   The width of 1.2 m for footpaths was adopted to allow handcarts to pass;
however, it is acknowledged that for much of the year it is possible to pass on the
adjacent surface and, therefore, the edge treatment of paths requires attention to detail.
Road and pedestrian bridges would be consistent with these standards.
Stormwater Drainage
28.   Ulaanbaatar is mainly drained by three rivers flowing from north to south into the
Tuul River, which runs east to west. These rivers are from east to west: Uliastai, Selbe,
Tolgoit and Naragiin.   Their tributaries include the Chingeltei, Hailast and



-146-                       ANNEX 15
Denjinmiyanga, which drain to the Selbe. Most of the drainage in the Ger area feeds into
the north-south rivers: Uliastai, Selbe, Tolgoit. Over the long term, the annual volume of
rainwater has been increasing and with it in recent years, flooding (in 1966, 1982 and
1994), a rise in the groundwater level and ground heave in expanding permafrost areas.
29.   A fundamental storm drainage problem is that Ger Khoroos have developed over
areas that are either steep-sloping or are adjacent to hills and are subject to seasonal storm
runoff. Ger areas also straddle the natural drainage routes to the river Tuul, as do formal
developments and the city center, which have been developed across the natural route of
the river Selbe.
30.   In addition, many of the tertiary channels have been filled with solid waste over
many years and while they may retain their drainage function, local flooding is caused
during the heaviest rainfall. On the other hand, in the absence of bridges, the deposits of
waste assist in providing access across the deeply ravined areas during the remainder of
the year.
31.   Another major problem is created by mudflows from the streams flowing to the
rivers Uliastai, Selbe, Tolgoit, and Naragiin. Mud and the larger shingle transported by
the main rivers themselves, restricts flow in the main drainage channels. However, no
regular attempt appears to be made to ensure that all the channels are clear and free of
solid waste. This is particularly so at culverts under roads that sometimes also suffer
from having less capacity than upstream channels.
32.   In the Denjin ger area, for example, there is are no formal stormwater drainage
provisions, while there are over 12 stormwater gullies and ravines with a total length of
9,000 m (lengths range from 120 m to 2,000 m). In winter, springwater charges freeze,
affecting 30-40 households. In summer, flooding results in human casualties and
property damage.
33.   The lack of maintenance of the piped stormwater system in the city is evident
during heavy storms as runoff is not accepted by the road gullies. Possibly many missing
gully covers were removed and traded as scrap metal; and many have been officially
removed and stored as a precaution against theft. All of this necessitates the regular
cleaning and emptying of each gully, for which there is no special equipment and,
consequently, the gullies are frequently full of debris.
34.   MUB had developed a program to alleviate flooding-in Ger and regular areas of
the city-as the drainage solutions are necessarily linked-and to reduce the rising
groundwater and permafrost expansion. These phenomena have been studied in detail by
MUB's Water Policy Unit (WPU). The WPU's main recommendation was to introduce a
system of horizontal and vertical ground drainage in Sukhbaatar (100 ail) to the north of
the city center.
35.   Following serious flooding in 1966, 1982 and 1994 in the north of the city, MUB
prepared an urgent program of works to prevent further damage. Without detailed



-147 -                     ANNEX 15
assessment it would be unwise to draw firm conclusions on the effectiveness of these
investments; however, inspection suggests that finding has sometimes dictated the extent
and dimensions of the sections used and these may be inadequate and inconsistent in
some locations.
36.  In Naran, for example, which is close to the city, an extensive cutoff drain was
built to protect Ger and the apartments below them, which can be densified-possibly
with apartments. But, the area above the channel and the apartments continues to develop
in Ger and is not protected from hillside runoff.
37.   Nevertheless, the incidences of serious flooding appear to have been reduced by
the works that have been completed and flooding continues to be concentrated in those
areas where projects have been identified but not yet implemented.
Selection Criteria for Drainage in Project Areas
38.   The following criteria were applied to select areas where project storm drainage
works would be implemented:
(a)   surveyed communities gave high priority to storm drainage improvements,
because of previous experience with damage due to flooding and erosion;
(b)   improvements to drainage capacity would improve and control runoff and
reduce the damage to property and lives; and
(c)   works previously identified MUB or the Water Policy Unit for inclusion in
their works program.
39.   Drainage proposals were estimated based on the experience of the existing
system. Two trapezoidal standards were adopted. Further detailed studies of the network
were made during project preparation in order to finalize cost estimates. Three standard
culverts were designed to allow uninterrupted flow through two standard channels and to
provide a standard solution for crossing the remaining natural ravines.
40.   The following stormwater drainage works would be carried out under the project
in three ger areas:
(a)   Denjin. Construction of both earth and concrete-faced channels and
filling of one eroded gully area and construction of a low-flow channel;
(b)   Chingeltei. Construction of an extension of the Chingeltei channel and
construction of piped drainage in badly scoured areas in the northeast
section of the Ger area; and
(c)   Dambadarjaa. Construction of flood protection walls and levees and
low-flow channels.



-148 -                    ANNEX 15
41.   A number of potentially worthwhile storm drainage projects were considered
during project preparation, but could not be included in the project because of constraints
on funding, implementation capacity and the need for a more methodical stormwater
drainage planning study. They are, however, worth mentioning, as outlined below with
preliminary 1995 cost estimates.
(a)   Diversion of the flow from the Denjinmiyanga River to the Selbe River
along the line of the channel recently constructed by the Municipality
(Tug 40 million).
(b)   Diversion of the Naragiin River north of the Oil Depot (and north of the
road through Tolgoit) (Tug 220 million).
(c)   Reinstatement of gully gratings in the city center with a hinged grating
(Tug 23 million).
(d)   Creation of a balancing lake on the Selbe River, north of Dambadarjaa.
(e)   Extension of the lake at Bayangol (Naran) with the raising of the dam
height.
(f)   Creation of a new balancing lake on the West Tolgoit River, north of
Songino-Khairkhan ( Baiyankoshuu).
(g)   Implementation of debris filters, whether as sabo dams or other devices on
the Selbe, Naragiin and Tolgoit Rivers.
(h)   Development of a storm drainage maintenance plan and provision of
maintenance equipment.
42.   Housing. In the UB Ger areas, housing is a mixture of many uninsulated, small
wooden buildings, a few brick or stucco buildings, with tarpaper roofs laid on boards, and
"Ger." The centuries-old Mongolian "Ger" is basically a cheap (about $600 in 1996)
one-room, circular (4-7 m diameter), mushroom-shaped, demountable tent, with
transportable wooden frames and a thick felt and canvas covering, with substantial
insulation but short heat retention value. Surveys indicate that in UB, permanent, heated
(but mostly uninsulated) wooden houses are replacing Ger. The Ger areas are being
transformed into private housing areas for all social groups, in the absence of funding
now and in the foreseeable future for apartment construction.
COST RECOVERY IN GER AREA UPGRADING
Introduction
43.   About $4.8 million (including contingencies on $3.2 million base costs) will be
spent under the project by MUB for infrastructure improvements including roads,
footpaths, stormwater drains, washing facilities and solid waste collections. The amount



-149 -                     ANNEX 15
does not include the cost of improvements under the project in Ger area water supply,
which will also be made in the areas to be upgraded.
44.   To establish priorities for improving Ger areas under the project, Ger areas were
ranked according to the following criteria:
(a)   health conditions and access to health services (e.g., socioeconomic
conditions);
(b)   population size and population density;
(c)   availability of services;
(d)   services construction and supply logistical conditions (e.g., ground
conditions, permafrost, slope, erosion and access, building relocation or
property acquisition requirements, which were given 50 percent weight in
the analysis);
(e)   town planning and future city development requirements; and
(f)   community willingness to participate in identification of priority
investments, and to pay ger improvement charges for them.
45.   About 86,000 people, or 16,900 households reside in the project Ger areas in
which infrastructure will be upgraded. These areas would also be benefited by the piped
water supply to be constructed under the project, which covers all 12 of the priority Ger
areas and would benefit about 169,000 people in 1,338 hectares of Ger area in 1996 or an
estimated 210,000 people in 2010.
46.   Due to resource constraints, only about 50 percent of the population in 12 Ger
areas suitable for improvement could be included in project; and only a minimum of
essential improvements could be made in those areas.  A substantial amount of
improvement work remains to be done in the future in both USIP and non-USIP areas,
when more resources can be made available.
47.   The objectives of a Ger Infrastructure Account (GIA) that would be established
under the project (see Operational Action Plan) are:
(a)   through GIA fees, to recover some of MUB's AusAID grant funding for
the Ger infrastructure improvement program;
(b)   to generate resources for infrastructure improvements in the Ger area,
which could not be included in the USIP because of constraints on
funding;
(c)   to charge GIA fees which are affordable; and



-150 -                      ANNEX 15
(d)   to encourage a sense of commitment among Ger residents to Ger
improvements.
GER INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM-CHARACTERISTICS
48.   With a view  to building up resources for future improvements and for
maintenance of ger infrastructure, the establishment of a Ger Infrastructure Improvement
account was agreed to with MUB. Details of approaches to charges and generating
revenue for the account are given below and in the attached table.
ESTIMATES OF GER INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT CHARGES,
AFFORDABILITY AND REVENUE
Assumed Tg/$                                               650
Assumed Number of People per Plot                           5.1
Assumed Number of People in UB                         620,000
Assumed Number of Ger Beneficiaries (people) of          86,400
Project (Excluding water supply project improvements)
Assumed Number of Ger Beneficiary plots in Project       16,941
(Excluding water supply project improvements)
Assumed Affordable Percent of Ger Income available for    1.0%
GIA payments
$           Tg
Calculated Monthly affordable GIA Payment per Plot         0.77          500
Average Ger Household Income (1996)                         77        50,000
Ger component Base Cost                               2,883,000 1,887,390,000
Ger component Total Cost with contingencies & DSM     4,833,000 3,140,150,000
(1996 prices)
Percent Cost charged as on-plot to Ger households         50%
Cost Charged to Ger Households                        1,263,000 1,641,900,000
Cost Charged to Ger Households per plot                     75        48,459
Calculated Total Monthly Revenue from GIA Payments
From Ger Households Getting Project Infrastructure ex    13,032     8,470,588
Piped Water pay GIA Charge
Calculated Total Yearly Revenue to GIA Payments
From Ger Households Getting Project Infrastructure      156,380   101,647,059
Calculated Number of Years to Pay off all Improvement
Costs
From Ger Households Getting Project Infrastructure           8



-151-                      ANNEX 15
According to the Ger Infrastructure Fund Calculations:
(a)   Only ger households/plots getting project infrastructure ex-piped water
(86,400 people equivalent to about 17,000 ger plots) would be charged for
improvements;
(b)   An affordable charge of 1 percent of average household income would be
charged;
(c)   Ger beneficiaries would be charged only for on-site improvements,
defined as being roads, paths, storm drains, etc., which are located in the
immediate vicinity of Ger plots and primarily benefit adjacent ger plots.
The rest of the road and stormwater drainage improvements would be
considered as off-site improvements, which link ger area to the central city
system and benefit the city population as a whole, and costs would be
recovered from general city revenues, including possibly a future property
tax.
(d)   The charges would be collected quarterly from ger plot holders by the
Khoroos, in the same manner as solid waste charges are now collected;
and would commence in each Ger area as and when improvements were
completed in an area. The charges would be revised annually by MUB to
correspond to the inflationary increase in improvement costs, except that
the percentage increase in the charge would not exceed the percentage
increase in ger incomes in the previous year.
(e)   MUB would establish a separate Ger Improvement Account maintained as
a Revolving Fund in a separate account;
(f)   Collections of improvement charges accruing to the Account would be
used only for additional improvements in project ger areas, nonproject Ger
areas, ger infrastructure maintenance, or such other Ger area activities as
might be agreed between IDA and MUB from time to time.
(g)   As illustrated in table below, a charge of Tug 500/month/plot, equivalent
to about 1 percent of average 1996 ger household income, would generate
about Tug 102 million per year ($156,000 equivalent) and recover 50
percent of the $2.5 million (base cost) of ger improvements in eight years.
Benefits
49.   The Benefits of the user charge, established as described above, and illustrated in
the table attached would be:
(a)   A modest recovery of funds invested by MUB in Ger infrastructure
improvements;



-152 -                     ANNEX 15
(b)   Affordable Improvement Charges. The charges, set at a small percentages
of Ger household income, would be affordable to Ger households who are
the poorest segment of the UB population;
(c)   Additional Ger Infrastructure Improvements. The revenues in the ger area
improvement account could be used by MUB to implement small high-
priority infrastructure improvements in project and nonproject Ger area,
which could not be improved under USIP; and
(d)   Enhancement of the market value of Ger plots, particularly in view of the
anticipated privatization of Ger land and strengthening of tenure on ger
plots, which the payment of the infrastructure charge would also
strengthen.



-153 -                      ANNEX 16
ANNEX 16: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. The Study on the Water Supply System in Ulaanbaatar and Surroundings-Draft
Final Report-March 1995, by Pacific Consultants International for JICA.
2. Urban Services Project: Ulaanbaatar Feasibility Study (2 volumes), World Bank-
funded, December 1995.
3. Urban Services Rehabilitation Project: Phase 2, by Sinclair Knight, Merz:
a. Preliminary Report, June 1996,
b. Institutional Aspects and Action Plan, July 1996,
c. Financial Aspects, Final Report, October 1996,
d. Design Report, Final (Volume 1), October 1996, and
e. Environmental Impact Assessment (Volume 2), October 1996.
4. Project Implementation Plan for Proposed Ulaanbaatar Services Project.
5. Credit and Subloan Repayment Schedules by MUB and USAG.



- 154-
IBRD 28690: ULAANBAATAR: LOCATION OF PROJECT
COMPONENTS



IM  O  N  G  O  lI A                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RUSSIAN FERD,',2
ULAANBAATAR SERVICES
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED   EXISTING
-                  ~~~~~~PIPELINES IN OER AREAKAKSN
PIPELINE CONSTRUCTED EAT NOT USED
- - - -           ~~~~PIPE LINKS                                                                                                                          IRJAAQYGZRE
U     U          ~~~~RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N R KOREA,
ROEHROLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCHINA
PUM.P STATIONS
STORM DRAINAGE                                                                                                   *                                                                                                      NEPAL
GER AREAS TO RE SERVED EY WATER SUPPLY ONLY /
GEE ARSEAS TO RECEIVE SOME URBAN SERVICE UPGRADING AND
WATER SUPPLY
FORMAL HOUSING AREAS TO BE EQUIPPED WITH WATER METERS   7S1
AND IMPROVED PLUMBING FIXTURES
-      RAILROADS
INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES _NLES0E0TL
I A
MA     0   TO          I
LoE.;,.,, ,,,,H.Ilp  VWSo oP
IL/                                                                  endorlefnem or 2scePeonce of s_ch bo_ndorws   AP21L I ;.i









IMAGING
Report No.:        16379  MOO
Type:     SAR



