Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2973 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2973 MOG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1997 , between MONGOLIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB)  shall carry out the Project, or cause 
the Project to be carried out, with the Borrower ’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the MUB the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement;   
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth of Australia 
(Australia) a grant (the Australian Grant) in an amount equivalent to about four 
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($4,900,000) to assist in financing part C of  
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Australian 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Australia; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and MUB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Association 
or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the knowledge 
of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount 
of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) 
at any time, the Association 
determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out 
of 
the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association determines 
that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Credit shall 
be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement:
(a)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 
of October 1996 including mitigation measures, prepared for the Project as an integral 
part of the Environmental Assessment,  as such plan may be revised from time to time 
in agreement with the Association;
(b)
“Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program” means the program for the 
improvement of ger infrastructure dated May 7, 1997 and referred to in Part E.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such program may be revised from time to time 
in agreement with the Association;
(c)
“km” means kilometers;
Page  3
(d)
"MUB" means Municipality of Ulaanbaatar, an administrative sub-division 
of the Borrower and any successor thereto;
(e)
“MUB Parts of the Project” means Parts C, D.1 D.2 and D.3 of the Project 
as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f)
"MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and MUB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MUB 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “MUB Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(g)
“PMU” means MUB’s project management unit responsible for Project 
supervision and coordination as referred to in Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and MUB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(j)
“Sector Improvement Action Plan” means MUB’s plan to improve urban 
services in MUB, dated May 7, 1997, as the same may be revised from time to time in 
agreement with the Association;  
(k)
“Tugrik” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
"USAG" means Water Supply and Sewerage  Company of Ulaanbaatar, a limited 
liability company established and operating in accordance with the laws of the 
Borrower;   
(m)
“USAG Institutional Development Plan” means the action plan for the 
strengthening of USAG’s organization, dated May 7, 1997, as the same may be revised 
from time to time in agreement with the Association;  
(n)
“USAG Parts of the Project” means Parts A, B and D.4 of the Project, as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(o)
"USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between MUB and USAG pursuant to Part D of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “USAG Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
under the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(p)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the MUB Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
Page  4
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2007 and ending May 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,   provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  5
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause MUB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all of the obligations of MUB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources 
necessary or appropriate to enable MUB to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to MUB under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MUB (the MUB 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association. Such terms and conditions shall include the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the MUB Subsidiary Loan 
repayable by MUB shall be the equivalent in SDR 
(determined as of the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal) 
of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Credit 
Account; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the MUB Subsidiary Loan shall 
be repaid by MUB to the Borrower in Dollars in 
semi-annual installments over forty years, including a 
grace period 
of 10 years; 
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of 
the MUB Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to 1% per 
annum; 
and 
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such 
principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at 
the 
rate set forth in Section 2.04(a) of the 
Development 
Credit Agreement.  
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MUB Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MUB 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by MUB 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  6
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditures submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
(i) of this Section  and the records and accounts for 
the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of 
each 
such year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01 Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
MUB shall have failed to perform any of its obligation under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that MUB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Australian Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
April 1, 1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Australian Grant made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the Australian Grant 
Agreement.
Page  7
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination 
is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02
Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Association within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto; 
(b)
USAG shall have been registered as a limited liability company in 
accordance with the Borrower's Company and Partnership Law, on the basis of a charter 
acceptable to the Association;   
(c)
MUB shall have entered into an agreement, acceptable to the Association 
and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, with a 
consultancy firm for the provision of technical assistance for project management 
under Part D.1 of the Project; and 
(d)
MUB shall have established the project management unit (PMU) referred to 
in Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by MUB 
and is legally binding upon MUB in accordance with its terms; 
(b)
that each  Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its 
terms; and 
(c)
that USAG has been registered as a limited liability company in 
accordance with the Borrower’s Company and Partnership Law.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Finance
Khudaldaany gudamj - 4
Ulaanbaatar 11
Mongolia
Telex:
719-79241
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHERE OF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MONGOLIA
By /s/ P. Tsagaan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
      % of
    (Expressed in SDR
  Expenditures
Categry
 Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under  
    1,000,000
 90% 
Part A of the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts A,      500,000
 100% of foreign
B and D of the 
 expenditures and
Project
 90% of local 
 expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services 
Page  9
and training:
(a) for Part D.1 of     2,200,000
the Project;
(b) for Part D.4 of    12,300,000
the Project
TOTAL
   16,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for works, goods and consultants services under contracts not exceeding 
$20,000 equivalent each; and
(b)
 for training regardless of the cost thereof,  all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and MUB to: (a) 
alleviate inequity in the delivery of urban services in MUB between ger and formal 
housing areas; (b) restore levels and quality of water supply to MUB and make water 
supply accessible to ger areas; and (c) strengthen the capacity of USAG and MUB with a 
view to increasing efficiency and performance orientation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: Water Supply 
1.
Distribution Network
Improvement of MUB’s water supply distribution network through the completion of 
the southern section of the main distribution loop around MUB, including: (a) 
construction of about 15 km of pipelines for the southern transmission main; (b) 
construction of links (about 7 km) between existing reservoirs and links (about 10 km) 
to  water distribution network main; (c) rehabilitation of the North East and ‘X’ 
reservoirs, including the installation of a telemetry system to optimize reservoir 
use; (d) repair and replacement of existing reservoir valves and installation of 
regulating valves to control pressures on secondary networks; and (e) provision of 
workshop and laboratory equipment and spares. 
2.
Ger Area Water Supply
Improvement of water distribution to ger areas through: (a) construction of a 
primary water supply distribution network to serve ger areas, consisting of about 98 
km of insulated pipes; (b) construction of links between the ger distribution network 
and MUB’s network, consisting of two transmission pipelines (of about 9 and 3 km in 
length, respectively); (c) construction of four semi-buried reservoirs at Hailast, 
Page  10
Yarmag, Baiyankoshu and Shar Had with a combined capacity of 3,000 cubic meters; (d) 
establishment of an independent groundwater supply at Yarmag, Shar Had and Bayankoshu 
through the drilling of boreholes; and (e) construction of about 25 water supply 
kiosks and rehabilitation of about 110 existing water kiosks to serve the ger areas. 
3. 
Water Wastage Reduction
Reduction of water wastage through: (a) provision and installation at apartments 
of about 22,000 cold and hot water meters; (b) provision and installation of fixtures 
and pipes for apartments and other buildings; and (c) provision and installation of 
meter testing and repair facilities.
Part B: Sewerage System Repairs 
Enhancing capacity of MUB’s sewerage system through provision of equipment to 
assess sewer conditions, clear sewer blockages and clean sewers.
Part C: Ger Area Infrastructure Upgrading  
Improving the infrastructure of ger areas through the implementation of the Ger 
Infrastructure Improvement Program, including (1) construction of about 23 km of 
footpaths; (2) construction of about four bridges and about 11 km of roads; (3) 
construction of about 2.6 km of drains and 2.2 km of levees; (4) installation of about 
650 solid waste refuse bins; (5) supply of mobile equipment for solid waste collection 
and disposal; and (6) construction of about 5 laundries and bathhouses in each of the 
abovementioned ger areas.
Part D:
Project Management and Institutional Development 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU in project management with an emphasis on 
financial management, procurement, disbursement and monitoring skills. 
2.
Foster community commitment to and enhance participation in ger area 
infrastructure improvements to be undertaken under Part C of the Project, through 
implementation of community awareness activities, including review of design of 
infrastructure improvements at the community level.
3.
Carrying out of the studies regarding:  (a) medium-term development and planning 
of ger areas, to improve land use management and integrate ger areas into the overall 
urban development plan; and (b) ger refuse collection, with a view to identify 
alternatives to fund such collection. 
4.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of USAG, through the implementation of 
the USAG Institutional Development Action Plan including: 
(a)
strengthening of the capacity of USAG in financial management, 
engineering and maintenance including the provision of training and consultants’ 
services; and  
(b)
development and installation of a computerized billing and collection 
system and the training of USAG staff in the operation of that system.
*             *             * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  11
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.    
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of 
withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under 
the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  12
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
