Page  1
June 14, 2001
H.E. Mr. Ch. Ulaan
Minister of Finance and Economy
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Mongolia
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) Grant
for the Reintegration of Street Children in Civil Society
Grant No. TF 026566
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate  IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the 
Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred 
forty three thousand United States Dollars (US$443,000) (the Grant) to Mongolia (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance with the project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Zafar Ahmed
Acting Country Director, Mongolia
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
MONGOLIA
By /s/ Ch. Ulaan
Authorized Representative
Minister of Finance and Economy of Mongolia
Date:  June 21, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objectives of the Project is to assist the Recipient to improve the living 
conditions of street children in Ulaanbaatar and re-integrate them into civil society, 
in connection with the implementation of the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project 
(CR 2973 - MOG).
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
following activities (the Activities):
Page  2
Part A.  Development of combined bathing-cum-community centers.  Construction of four 
bath-houses that would be combined with existing community facilities to induce their 
use for social and community activities, including provision of technical assistance 
for the design, contracting and supervision of works and management of facilities; 
estimated to cost US$250,000.
Part B. Rehabilitation and conversion of 300-bed detention shelter. Rehabilitation and 
conversion of a 300-bed detention center to a multi-purpose center with classrooms, 
sanitary facilities, technical rooms, including provision of technical assistance for 
the design, contracting and supervision of works and management of the facility; 
estimated to cost US$149,000.
Part C. Technical assistance. Design, preparation, and delivery of community 
participation workshops and training of social workers, and design and implementation 
of an apprenticeship program to provide marketable skills to street children and other 
homeless residents of Ulaanbaatar; estimated to cost US$44,000.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project, through the Municipality of 
Ulaanbaatar, with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with  IDA's representatives 
on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures 
required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Mongolia for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Project a report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2.1 above, the Recipient shall 
cause the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar to establish, and thereafter maintain throughout 
the period of implementation of the Project: (a) a steering committee with membership 
acceptable to IDA, including participation of non-governmental organizations, to 
provide over-all guidance and coordination in the implementation of the Project, and 
(b) a focal unit under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, managed and staffed with 
experienced personnel in adequate number, to implement the Project.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
   Amount of the Grant
% of Expenditure
Item
Allocated (in US Dollars)
 to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ 
157,300
100%
Services
Page  3
(2)
Workshops, training
 44,000
100% 
and apprenticeships
(3)
Goods
110,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 88% 
of local expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(4)
Works
122,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
88% of local expenditures
(5)
Operating Costs
 10,000
50%
TOTAL
443,000
For purposes of this paragraph, (i) the term "apprenticeships" means the remuneration 
given to street children and other homeless persons who participate in building the 
community centers as part of a training program; (ii) the term "foreign expenditures" 
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for 
goods, works or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Recipient; (iii) the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also 
that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures; and (iv) the term "Operating Costs" means the costs of heating and other 
utilities for the community centers.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of  IDA or for goods produced in or works and services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, works if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by 
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after May 31, 2003, 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date); and 
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by authorized official or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each, (ii) consultants’ services under 
contracts with firms costing less than US$10,000 equivalent each and under contracts 
with individuals costing less than US$5,000 equivalent each; (iii) workshops, training 
Page  4
and apprenticeships; and (iv) Operating Costs; all under such terms and conditions as 
IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to  IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement
Page  5
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
IDA in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this part B, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment and costing US$30,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$ 20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods awarded under national shopping 
and direct contracting, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to IDA a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
IDA a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  6
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services from UN Volunteers shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the design and delivery of the community participation program and 
the apprenticeship program under Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for detailed design and preparation of bill of quantities under Parts A 
and B of the Project, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by  IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement; and
Page  7
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the IDA shall 
Page  8
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If  IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
