Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2973 MOG
Project Agreement
(Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MUNICIPALITY OF ULAANBAATAR
Dated July 31, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2973 MOG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1997 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Mongolia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,300,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that MUB agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and MUB (the MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement) the proceeds of the Credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to MUB on terms and 
conditions set forth in the MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  and
WHEREAS MUB in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
Page  2
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MUB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall:
(i)
carry out Parts C, D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the Project (the 
MUB Parts of the Project); and
(ii)
cause USAG to carry out Parts A, B and D.4 of the 
Project (the USAG Parts of the Project); all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and 
environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and MUB shall otherwise agree, MUB shall carry out the 
Project or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
Section 2.03. (a) MUB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, MUB shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and MUB, a 
plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower and MUB on said plan.
Section 2.04. MUB shall duly perform all its obligations under the MUB 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, MUB shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.  
Section 2.05. (a) MUB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
MUB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by MUB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the MUB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Page  3
Section 3.01.  (a) MUB shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of MUB responsible for carrying out the MUB Parts of the Project.
(b)
MUB shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section or each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of 
each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of MUB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate and  the Association shall promptly notify MUB thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
For Municipality of Ulaanbaatar:
Page  4
Sukhbaatar square-11
Ulaanbaatar-46
Mongolia
Telex:
(c/o Ministry of Finance):
719-79241
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MUB or by MUB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Mayor, or by such other person or persons as said Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and said Mayor shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF ULAANBAATAR
By /s/ P. Tsagaan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: (a)  
Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $700,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for 
goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more 
Page  5
each. 
(b)  Preference for domestic contractors The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 
2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to works to be carried out 
by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,600,000 
equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
2.
International Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting/Force Account
Works for installation of meters and repair of plumbing fixtures estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000 equivalent may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 or 3.8 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Page  6
Services for the development of a maintenance system and for network modeling 
under Part D.4 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services to be provided under Part D.1 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Design and supervision services to be provided under Part D.1 of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Supervision services to be provided under Part D.1 of the Project for tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth below. 
Page  7
A.
Project Management MUB shall maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project, a project management unit (PMU) staffed by qualified staff in adequate 
numbers and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, 
including responsibility for the overall coordination and supervision of Project 
execution. 
B.
MUB Water Sector 
1.
MUB shall implement the Sector Improvement Action Plan and submit any proposed 
revision to said plan to the Association for its prior approval. 
2.
MUB shall by December 31, 1997 consolidate its ger area water distribution 
activities into USAG. 
C.
Environment  
MUB shall take, and shall cause USAG to take, all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management 
Plan.
D. 
USAG Parts of the Project 
1.
For the purposes of the USAG Parts of the Project, MUB  shall relend the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 1, 2 and 3(b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to USAG under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between MUB and USAG (the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement) 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and 
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
2.
(a)
MUB shall cause USAG to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the USAG 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all of the obligations of 
USAG 
therein set forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable USAG to 
perform such 
obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(b)
MUB shall exercise its rights under the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and MUB and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
E.
MUB Parts of the Project
1.
MUB shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a program (the Ger 
Infrastructure Improvement Program) acceptable to the Association and shall submit any 
revision to such program to the Association for its prior approval. 
2.
To improve the sustainability of the Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program, MUB 
shall, not later than the commencement of works under the said program, introduce user 
charges for ger improvements payable by ger residents covered by said program, at 
levels acceptable to the Association, which will be used to finance further ger area 
infrastructure improvements. 
3.
MUB shall: (i) not later than the commencement of works under the Ger 
Infrastructure Improvement Program, develop and adopt a scheme, acceptable to the 
Association, to ensure that the benefits of ger area infrastructure improvements 
resulting from the implementation of the Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program shall 
accrue to the residents of ger areas covered by the said program; (ii) implement such 
Page  8
scheme in accordance with its terms; and (iii) submit any proposed revisions to such 
scheme to the Association for its prior approval. 
4.
In order to improve MUB’s land use management and integrate ger areas into the 
overall urban development plan, MUB shall: (i) carry out a study regarding medium-term 
development and planning of ger areas in MUB, including definition of appropriate 
levels of public services, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) by December 31, 1998 furnish to the Association for comments said 
study and the recommendations resulting from the study; and (iii) thereafter take said 
recommendations into account in its urban development planning. 
5. 
MUB shall: (i) carry out a study to determine alternatives to fund ger area 
refuse collection, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) by July 1, 1998, furnish to the Association for comments said study 
and the recommendations resulting from the study; (iii) not later than December 31, 
1998 prepare a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association to implement said 
recommendations; and (iv) thereafter, implement said action plan in accordance with 
its terms.
6.
MUB shall implement Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Sector Improvement Action Plan. 
F.
Monitoring and reporting 
1.
Monitoring
MUB shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project, as well as the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
2.
Reporting
MUB shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, the following reports:  (a) semi-annual reports not later 
than April 30, and October 30 in each year, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six calendar months immediately 
preceding the month in which the report is due and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the then current six month period, and (b) a mid-term 
report not later than October 30, 1999, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
reporting activities performed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 (a) above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
Consultation
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 above, MUB shall review 
said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3 
Principal Terms and Conditions of  
the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The principal terms and condition set forth or referred to in this Schedule 3 
shall apply for the purposes of Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
A. Terms 
1.
The principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by USAG shall be the 
equivalent in Tugrik (determined as of the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal) 
Page  9
of amounts allocated to and withdrawn from Categories 1, 2 and 3(b). 
2.
Such principal amount shall be repaid by USAG in Tugrik to MUB in semi-annual 
installments over twenty years, including a grace period of five years. 
3.
Interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the said subsidiary loan 
at a rate equal to  5% per annum. 
B.
Conditions
The USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the following principal 
conditions:
1.
USAG shall undertake to carry out the USAG Parts of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate financial, engineering, 
and administrative practices, as well as appropriate health and safety standards 
acceptable to the Association, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities 
and other resources required for the purpose.
2.
USAG shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the USAG Parts of the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.
3.
USAG shall implement the USAG Institutional Development Plan and submit 
revisions to said plan to the Association for its prior approval.
4.
USAG shall undertake to procure the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the carrying out the 
USAG Parts of the Project.  
5.
USAG shall undertake to enable the Association and MUB to inspect such goods and 
the sites and works included in the USAG Parts of the Project, the operation thereof, 
and any relevant records and documents.
6.
USAG shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible insurers such 
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder 
to be made payable in a currency freely usable by USAG to replace or repair such 
goods.
7.
USAG shall, as of not later than December 31, 1998, maintain separate accounts 
for its water supply and sewage operations.
8.
USAG shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;  
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to MUB and to the Association, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope 
and detail as MUB and the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Association and MUB all such other information 
Page  10
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association and/or MUB shall reasonably request.
9.
USAG shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, starting with its 
fiscal year commencing on January 1, 1998, increase expenditures for maintenance and 
repair of its facilities by 10% per annum in real terms and record such expenditures 
separately in its accounts.
10.
USAG shall equalize the unit water tariff for apartment residents and ger area 
residents promptly upon the completion of Part A.2 of the Project.
11. 
(a)   USAG shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year 
ending on December 31, 1997, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its 
(i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements 
exceed the provision for depreciation.   
(b)
By April 15 and October 15 in each of its fiscal years, USAG shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by USAG and satisfactory to the Association and MUB,  
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that USAG would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for USAG's fiscal years covered by such review, USAG shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Part 11: 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total 
operating revenues and net non-operating income. 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from 
all sources related to operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between: (A) revenues from all sources other 
than 
those related to operations; and (B) expenses, 
including 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above. 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and 
provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a 
rate of not less than 2% per 
annum of the average current gross value 
of USAG's 
fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable 
to 
the Association, but excluding interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(v)
The average current gross value of USAG’s fixed assets 
in operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the 
gross value of USAG's fixed assets in operation 
at the beginning and 
at the end of the fiscal year, as 
valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt. 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence 
Page  11
of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Association. 
12.
In consideration for services provided by the PMU to USAG under the Project, 
USAG shall pay MUB amounts acceptable to the Association.
13.
MUB shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of USAG to the use of 
the proceeds of the subsidiary loan extended to it by MUB under this Agreement upon 
failure by USAG to perform its obligations under the USAG Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 4
MONITORING INDICATORS
1.
Poverty Alleviation
Number and percentage of water kiosks served by a piped supply versus targets
 Ratio of the unit price of water to ger areas and to apartments to become one 
by end of project period
Number of ger plots with access to footpath/road within 50 meters
Per capita ger consumption of water
User charges collected for Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program
2.
Efficiency Enhancement
Decline in per capita water consumption in apartment buildings
Collection rates of water revenues for: (i) apartments and (ii) institutions and 
businesses
Amount of water delivered by truck
Ratio of population served by USAG water supply to total number of USAG staff.
3.
Capacity Building
Number of water meters installed under project
Actual vs. planned budget expenditures for system maintenance
Ratio of USAG’s operating revenue to expenditures
