Page  1
April 30, 1998
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Khudaldaany gudamj-4
Ulaanbaatar 11
Mongolia
Re:
Australian Grant for Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project
Grant TF023262
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Australia, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding  four million five hundred thousand United 
States Dollars ($4,500,000) (the Grant) to Mongolia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient to 
implement Parts C, D2, and D3 of the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project, subject 
of the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 2973-MOG) entered into between 
Mongolia and the International Development Association, dated July 31, 1997 (the 
Credit Agreement).  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that 
it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the 
said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Country Director, Mongolia
East Asia & Pacific Region
AGREED:
MONGOLIA
By /s/ 
Minister of Finance
Authorized Representative
Date: May 8, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in carrying out activities 
that will improve the infrastructure of ger areas in the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar.  
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are the implementation of 
the components of the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project described in Part C, 
Part D.2 and Part D.3 of Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement.  The Activities include:
Page  2
(a)
improving the infrastructure of ger areas through the implementation of 
the Ger Infrastructure Improvement Program, including (i) construction of 23 
kilometers of footpaths;  (ii) construction of about four bridges and about 11 
kilometers of roads;  (iii) construction of about 2.6 kilometers of drains and 2.2 
kilometers of levees;  (iv) installation of about 650 solid waste refuse bins;  (v) 
supply of mobile equipment for solid waste collection and disposal;  (vi) construction 
of about 5 laundries and bathhouses in Hailast, Yarmag, Baiyankoshu and Shar Had; 
(b)
fostering community commitment to and enhance participation in ger area 
infrastructure improvements to be undertaken under (a) above, through implementation 
of community awareness activities, including review of design of infrastructure 
improvements at the community level;  and
(c)
carrying out of the studies regarding:  (i) medium-term development and 
planning of ger areas, to improve land use management and integrate ger areas into the 
overall urban development plan; and (ii) ger refuse collection, with a view to 
identify alternatives to fund such collection.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities, through the Municipality of 
Ulaanbaatar (MUB), with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for 
purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of 
the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient and MUB shall enter into a sub-grant agreement (the Sub-Grant 
Agreement) which shall be substantially in the form of Attachment III and under terms 
and conditions acceptable to IDA.  The Recipient shall transfer the proceeds of the 
Grant to MUB on a non-reimbursable grant basis and shall cause MUB to carry out the 
Activities in accordance with MUB’s obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement.  The 
Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-Grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient and IDA and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Grant, and, except as IDA shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Sub-Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
goods, and works required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods and works to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods and works.  The Recipient shall ensure that any 
facilities relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in 
accordance with appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such 
facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated (in US 
Expenditures to
Page  3
Item
dollars)
  be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
  340,000
100%
(2)
Goods
1,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Works
2,860,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
TOTAL
4,500,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods and works or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient 
and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 2002 or such later date as IDA 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for works, goods, consultants services 
under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
Page  4
4.6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Page  5
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $700,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,860,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and of the Letter on National Competitive Bidding Procedures- Civil Works dated May 
8th, 1998 and in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
rior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants:
Page  6
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services to be provided under paragraph 1.1 (c) of the Annex may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Supervision Services to be provided under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex which 
are estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services to be provided under paragraph 1.1(b) that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  7
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
Page  8
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Attachment III
Form of Subsidiary Grant Agreement between Mongolia and the Municipality of Ulaabaatar 
providing for transferring Grant proceeds for financing the Ulaanbaatar Services 
Improvement Project
This Subsidiary Grant Agreement dated May 8th, 1998 (hereinafter called the 
"Sub-Grant Agreement") between Mongolia (hereinafter called "Mongolia") and the 
Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (hereinafter called "MUB"), an administrative sub-division 
of Mongolia.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement (IDA Credit No. 2973-MOG) for 
the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project dated July 31, 1997 (hereinafter called 
"the Credit Agreement") between Mongolia and the International Development Association 
(hereinafter called "IDA"), IDA has agreed to lend to Mongolia an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 12,300,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement and in 
the Project Agreement (hereinafter called the "Project Agreement") entered into 
between IDA and MUB, also dated July 31, 1997, for the purpose of financing the 
eligible expenditures necessary to carry out Parts A, B, D.1, and D.4 of the  
Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (hereinafter called the "Project"), as the 
Project is described in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement;
(B) by the Australian Grant Agreement dated May 8th, 1998 (hereinafter the 
"Grant Agreement") between Mongolia and IDA, IDA, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Australia, has made a grant to Mongolia in an amount equivalent to four 
Page  9
million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000) (such amount being hereafter 
referred to as the "Grant") to assist in financing the eligible expenditures necessary 
to carry out Parts C, D.2 and D.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Grant Agreement;
(C) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2.2 of the Annex of the Grant 
Agreement, Mongolia is to enter into this Sub-Grant Agreement to transfer to MUB the 
proceeds of the Grant, all in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement, 
the Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement;
(D) MUB agrees and covenants to use the proceeds of the Grant to be transferred 
to it under this Sub-Grant Agreement in compliance with the terms and conditions of 
the Grant Agreement, the Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement;
(E) Mongolia and MUB have agreed to enter into this Sub-Grant Agreement under 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE Mongolia and MUB hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Sub-Grant Agreement unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, 
Project Agreement, Grant Agreement and in the IDA General Conditions shall have the 
respective meanings as therein specified.
Section 1.02. The Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, and the Grant 
Agreement are hereby fully incorporated by reference into this Sub-Grant Agreement, so 
as to constitute an integral part of this Sub-Grant Agreement.  In the event any 
provision of this Sub-Grant Agreement shall be deemed to be inconsistent with any 
provision of the Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, or Grant Agreement, the 
provisions of the Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, and Grant Agreement shall at 
all times govern and continue to be valid with full force and effect.
ARTICLE II
AMOUNT, TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SUBSIDIARY GRANT
Section 2.01. Mongolia hereby agrees to transfer to MUB the proceeds of the 
Grant, in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred thousand United States 
Dollars ($4,500,000) to be withdrawn from time to time either from the Grant Account 
or the Special Account described in the Grant Agreement, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Sub-Grant Agreement (such amount being hereafter 
referred to as the "Subsidiary Grant");
Section 2.02. (a) Applications for withdrawal from the Grant Account and/or the 
Special Account shall be prepared, signed, and presented by MUB to IDA, together with 
all such documents and other evidence as shall be requested by IDA in connection with 
such withdrawals.
(b)
The closing date for withdrawals from the Grant Account and Special 
Account shall be the same date as that specified in paragraph 4.3 (a)(v) of the Grant 
Agreement, namely June 30, 2002, or such date as may from time to time be agreed 
between IDA and Mongolia under the Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
UNDERTAKINGS OF MUB
Section 3.01. MUB shall cause the proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant to be applied 
to the financing of eligible expenditures for the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, and Grant Agreement. MUB shall 
further cause the Project to be carried out and the corresponding MUB facilities 
necessary for the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with the 
provisions of the Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, and Grant Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without restriction or limitation upon any other provision of the 
Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, and Grant Agreement, MUB shall promptly take any 
and all necessary or otherwise required action needed to carry out with, due diligence 
and efficiency, all its obligations as set forth in the Project Agreement.
Page  10
Section 3.03. (a) MUB shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to Mongolia and IDA, 
its operations and the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
MUB shall cause said records and accounts to be monitored and 
independently audited by duly qualified outside auditors acceptable to IDA in 
accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Project Agreement and paragraph 
5.1 (b) of the Grant Agreement, and shall promptly furnish to MONGOLIA and IDA any 
such other information concerning such records, accounts and the audit thereof as 
MONGOLIA or IDA shall request from time to time.
Section 3.04. At all times MUB shall fully cooperate with Mongolia to ensure 
that the purposes of the Grant and Subsidiary Grant shall be accomplished pursuant to 
the terms of the Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, Grant Agreement, and Sub-Grant 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. MUB shall promptly inform Mongolia of any action to be taken, or 
threatened to be taken, which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the proper 
carrying out of the Project, and the fulfillment of the objectives of the Grant and 
the Subsidiary Grant. Furthermore, MUB shall make available to Mongolia, always in a 
prompt and timely manner, such applications, statements, representations or other 
documents and information as may be required.
Section 3.06. At all times MUB shall exercise its rights and obligations under 
this Sub-Grant Agreement in such a manner so as to protect the interests of Mongolia 
and IDA, and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant and the Subsidiary Grant.  Except 
as IDA shall otherwise agree in an official writing, MUB shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive this Sub-Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Undertakings of MONGOLIA
Section 4.01. Mongolia shall make available to MUB, as promptly as needed and on 
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, the funds, land, facilities, services and such 
other resources which are reasonably required, in addition to the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Grant, for carrying out the Project.
Section 4.02. At all times Mongolia shall exercise its rights and obligations 
under this Sub-Grant Agreement in such a manner so as to protect the interests of 
Mongolia and IDA, and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant and the Subsidiary 
Grant.  Except as IDA shall otherwise agree in an official writing, Mongolia shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive this Sub-Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE V
REMEDIES
Section 5.01. Not withstanding any other provision of this Sub-Grant Agreement, 
if the right of Mongolia under the Grant Agreement to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account shall have been suspended or terminated, in whole or in part, regardless of 
the reason therefor, the right of MUB under this Sub-Grant Agreement to receive any 
further amount on account of the Subsidiary Grant shall also be suspended or 
terminated, as the case may be.
Section 5.02.  Nothing contained herein shall prejudice or otherwise affect the 
rights and remedies of Mongolia that may be otherwise available to it by virtue of the 
laws and regulations of Mongolia.
ARTICLE VI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 6.01. This Sub-Grant Agreement shall enter into force on the date on 
which the Grant Agreement shall become effective and shall expire on the Closing Date 
of the Grant Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Sub-Grant Agreement shall be binding upon all successor(s) of 
MUB, in whatever form constituted.
Page  11
Section 6.03. Amendments or additions to the terms and conditions of this 
Sub-Grant Agreement, if any, shall be made in writing and signed by both parties with 
the prior written approval of IDA and shall be treated as an integral part of this 
Sub-Grant Agreement only after both parties’ receipt of a formal writing from IDA 
approving said amendments or additions.
Section 6.04. This Sub-Grant Agreement has been executed in two counterparts, in 
the Mongol language and in the English language.  The Mongol and the English language 
texts are both valid; but in the event of any divergence between the two texts, the 
English text shall prevail and govern.
Section 6.05. Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with, the 
implementation or interpretation of this Sub-Grant Agreement, which cannot be settled 
amicably by mutual agreement between the parties, shall be decided in accordance with 
the laws and regulations of Mongolia.
Section 6.06. Any notice, request or agreement between Mongolia and MUB 
contemplated by this Sub-Grant Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request 
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified, or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so 
specified are:
For Mongolia:
For MUB:
Ministry of Finance
Sukhbaatar square-11
Khudaldaany gudamj-4
Ulaanbaatar 6
Ulaanbaatar 11
Mongolia
Mongolia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Sub-Grant Agreement to be signed in their respective 
name and delivered at Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MONGOLIA
MUNICIPALITY OF ULAANBAATAR
By /s/ 
By /s/ J. Narantsatsralt
Minister of Finance
Mayor and Governor of
   the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
