                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 28832-MOG

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           (IDA-29730 PPFI-Q0800 TF-23262 TF-26566)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION

                                             TO

                                         MONGOLIA

                                           FOR AN

                     ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                        June 24, 2004




Urban Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tg)
                               Tg 1000 = US$ 0.8496
                              US$ 1.00 = Tg 1,177

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AusAID    Australian Agency for International Development
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR      Country Portfolio Performance Review
CTP       Heat and Water Distribution Centers
EA        Environmental Assessment
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
Ger       Traditional Mongolian felt and canvas tent
GIF       Ger Infrastructure Fund
GOM       Government of Mongolia
IDA       International Development Association
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
lcd       Liter per capita per day
MUB       Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
OSNAAG    Housing and Communal Services Company
PHRD      Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMU       Project Management Unit
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RA        Resettlement Assessment
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RIP       Resettlement Implementation Plan
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TA        Technical Assistance
UBSIP     Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project
UBSIP2    Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (Cr. 3890-MOG)
USAG      Ulaanbaatar Water and Sewerage Company
VAT       Value-added Tax



                        Vice President:   Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                    Country Director:     Mr. Ian Porter, EACTF
                      Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                   Task Team Leader:      Mr. Raja Iyer, EASUR

                                         MONGOLIA
                ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Resettlement Experience in UBSIP                                        30
Annex 9. Borrower's ICR Contribution                                             32

Project ID: P036052                                                  Project Name: MN-UB SERV. IMPRMVT
Team Leader: Raja Iyer                                               TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MN-UB SERV. IMPRMVT                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-29730; PPFI-Q0800;
                                                                                                     TF-23262; TF-26566
   Country/Department: MONGOLIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (70%); Sewerage (25%); Sub-national government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring
                            and privatization (P); Municipal finance (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/1995                                     Effective:                           08/05/1998
     Appraisal: 04/21/1997                                         MTR:                             04/14/2000
      Approval: 07/01/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Mongolia/Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
                      Other Partners:      Australia (AusAID)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Mr. Ian C. Porter                              Mr. Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Director:                Mr. Keshav Varma                               Ms. Jane Loos
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. Raja Iyer                                  Mr. Edouard Motte
ICR Primary Author:             Herbert Boehm


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The general objectives of the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (UBSIP) were to assist
the Government to: (a) address the inequity of services between ger (i.e., informal) and formal
housing areas, thereby improving the quality of life of the low-income population; (b) restore
levels and quality of water supply services in Ulaanbaatar and make that supply accessible to the
ger areas; and (c) develop more efficient and autonomous, performance-oriented institutions, with
a view to eventual privatization. Project activities are intended to demonstrate to Mongolia's
other large cities the modalities and benefits of urban renewal in the expectation that they will
replicate these initiatives themselves in the future.

In addition to those general objectives, the project enumerated the following specific objectives:

(a) improve the quality, quantity and reliability of water supply for about 70 percent of the
population in predominantly low-income ger areas;

(b) substantially lower the unit cost of water supply to ger areas by replacing tankered with piped
water and thereby bring the unit price for water charged to the ger areas in line with that paid by
apartment dwellers;

(c) improve ger area infrastructure, including roads, bridges, footpaths and storm drainage, and
enhance ger access to water supply and sanitation;

(d) arrest the deterioration in and improve the reliability and quality of the city water distribution
system while adapting it for distribution of piped water to ger areas;

(e) reduce water wastage, the production of nonrevenue-producing water, and water production
costs;

(f) replace the current norm-based water and sanitation billing system to one that is
quantity-based; and

(g) develop the capabilities of the Ulaanbaatar Water and Sewerage Company (USAG) for
financial and operational management and convert it into a self-financing commercially-oriented
public utility.

Assessment of Objectives. The general objectives of the project were clear and realistic;
however, the specific objectives were somewhat more elaborate than project objectives in today's
context. Project objectives were developed based on a comprehensive review of Mongolia's
urban sector in 1994.

The objectives take into account the basic characteristics of the urban sector in Mongolia, in
particular in Ulaanbaatar. Mongolia is a large country, with a relatively small population of 2.3
million, of whom over 25 percent lived in Ulaanbaatar, the capital city. 45 percent of the city's
population resided in fenced plots in traditional Mongolian tents (gers) or primitive wood shacks



                                                  - 2 -

in the so-called ger areas. As the ger areas were considered to provide only temporary housing,
only the bare minimum of urban infrastructure and service delivery was provided, consisting
primarily of individual electricity connections and communal water distribution points (kiosks).
Roads, water supply, sanitation, garbage collection, and community facilities in the 18 ger areas
were lacking. In contrast, urban services in the formal housing areas were better, but its quality
had deteriorated due to the economic crisis and severe municipal budget cuts in allocations for
service delivery, both in terms of capital expenditures, as well as repairs and maintenance.

Institutional problems diminished the effectiveness of the two major entities responsible for water
delivery to the city: USAG, the water and sanitation organization which operated as an operations
department of the municipal government; and OSNAAG, the municipal-owned Housing and
Communal Services Company that received water in bulk from USAG, and delivered it to
domestic consumers in the apartments. Both organizations lacked not only adequate resources,
but also operational and financial autonomy and effective management tools.

The project's general objectives echoed almost verbatim the policy actions included in the 1996
Medium-Term Strategy of Mongolia's urban development policies. These objectives also
responded directly to three key areas of the Bank Group's June 1995 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS): the protection of the poor and other vulnerable groups; the improvement of the country's
economic infrastructure; and the promotion of commercial orientation in local public enterprises.
However, the specific objective relating to the costs of water supply was based on inadequate
data, and in hindsight the anticipated cost reductions proved unattainable in the short term.

The project objectives thus were responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and the country's
development priorities, and focused on improved urban services to the poor through appropriate
investments in physical assets as well as institutional and policy reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was not formally restructured and the general and specific project objectives remained
fully intact throughout the project implementation period. The project's mid-term review in April
2000 resulted in a reduction in the number of ger areas covered because of cost considerations in
the context of available Credit funds. This change, as well as other minor adjustments, did not
affect the original project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included a physical investment program and an institutional development component
as outlined below.

Water Supply ($15.6 million). This component was to address three aspects of USAG's
operations by: (a) improving and removing bottlenecks in the primary distribution network by
supplying and laying pipelines, as well as connecting and rehabilitating existing reservoirs; (b)
constructing additional distribution facilities to improve service in twelve priority ger areas, and to
reduce the access cost to users; and (c) implementing a water wastage reduction plan in apartment
areas, aimed at bringing down overall water consumption figures through the installation of about
22,000 water meters, the replacement of leaking plumbing fixtures, and the provision of meter
testing and repair facilities.



                                                   - 3 -

Emergency Sewerage System Repairs ($142,000). This component was to include a minimal
amount of financing for purchase of equipment needed to investigate, assess and clean sewers.

Ger Area Infrastructure Upgrading Program ($4.6 million). This component would pilot
infrastructure upgrading in five priority ger areas by: (a) constructing footpaths, paved or gravel
roads, and foot and road bridges to improve access to public facilities; (b) constructing drains and
levees for protection from floods; (c) installation of refuse bins and supply of refuse trucks to
improve sanitation; and (d) construction of laundries and bathhouses.

Institutional Development ($2.6 million). This component consisted of: (a) technical
assistance in project management during the first two years of project implementation; (b)
institutional strengthening of USAG, in particular, in financial management, technical areas,
maintenance programs, and a computerized billing and collection system for metered supplies; and
(c) studies to review long-term development and planning of ger areas.

Design Assessment of Project

Overall, project design was appropriate and satisfactory. The project was quite demanding, as
this was the first Bank operation in the urban sector, and therefore it was exceedingly difficult to
assess the continued political commitment for sectoral reforms, and the implementation capacity
of the municipal authorities. In spite of a very slow start (causing the project to be rated
"unsatisfactory" for a period), and the frequent changes in Government during 1998-2000, project
design proved robust, and responded well to the overall and detailed project objectives. The
validity of UBSIP design is also borne out by the fact that the follow-on project, the Second
Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (UBSIP2), to a large degree adopted the design
principles of the first project by extending water supply to the ger areas which were not covered
under UBSIP, strengthening the city water supply services, and further supporting development of
USAG's operational and commercial activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
The mid-term review exercise in 2000 confirmed that none of the components needed to be
extensively revised. However, as discussed in more detail subsequently, as a result of
underestimation of costs at appraisal, the number of ger areas covered was reduced from twelve
to seven. The plumbing fixture repair program under the water supply component was adjusted
after the Government enacted a law privatizing apartments, and available funds were switched to
the rehabilitation of 11 heat and water distribution centers (CTPs).

On April 12, 2001, the Japan Social Development Fund approved a grant of $443,000 for the
"Reintegration of Street Children in Civil Society", as an activity in support of UBSIP. Grant
implementation is scheduled to be completed on August 25, 2004, and a separate completion
report will be issued for the Grant.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not evaluated by the Quality Insurance Group (QAG). The March/April 2002
Mongolia Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) found UBSIP's quality at entry to be


                                                 - 4 -

satisfactory. The ICR evaluation assesses quality at entry as "satisfactory", albeit with some
reservations.

UBSIP objectives tied in well with the CAS and the respective government policies and priorities.
Project design was demanding, yet appropriate for the objectives. Consistent with the needs of a
first urban development operation in Mongolia, significant time and resources were expended to
prepare the project. International consultants assisted in the preparation of feasibility studies
during Phase I, and in the development of detailed designs in Phase II. The Municipality of
Ulaanbaatar (MUB) had prepared an acceptable project implementation plan. Bid documentation
was also sufficiently advanced as part of a detailed procurement plan for the first two project
years. The design included technical assistance for project management, financial management,
design and supervision work for the first two years. There was adequate counterpart involvement
in project preparation through a ministerial Steering Committee, and with local communities
participating in the selection of sub-components, and in the location of facilities.

The institutional assessment of project related agencies turned out to be overly optimistic as many
of the institutions grappled for an extensive period with project effectiveness conditions, as well
as IDA procurement and reporting requirements. Project effectiveness was delayed by over a
year, in order to meet the effectiveness conditions of setting up the Project Management Unit
(PMU), incorporation of USAG, signing subsidiary loan agreements, and mobilizing consultants.
Procurement delays slowed implementation throughout the project.

Risk Assessment. The project identified the potential risk factors in (a) project management; (b)
institutional reform of USAG; (c) cost recovery for water; (d) consumer response to block
metering; and (e) technical matters. As discussed subsequently, mitigating measures for project
management, cost recovery, and technical matters turned out to be inadequate. As project
management and cost recovery for water are generic sectoral issues, they could have been
addressed more effectively. While the technical matters relating to cold climate conditions were
recognized and efforts were made to address them, designs for ger area water supply had to be
extensively revised. Project closing had to be extended by 18 months, because the impact of the
extremely short construction period (May-September) in Mongolia on project implementation was
underestimated.

Compliance with Safeguard Policies. For its expected environmental impact, UBSIP was
designated "Category B" in accordance with the World Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment. An Environmental Assessment (EA) and an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), consistent with IDA's safeguard policies, were prepared. They
concluded that the project would only require minor controls, primarily with regard to the new
reservoir. The recommendations were fully taken into account during all implementation stages.




                                                 - 5 -

No resettlement was expected at the time of project appraisal as MUB already owned the land
needed for project implementation. However, with the unexpectedly strong surge of immigrants
to the ger areas of Ulaanbaatar, some of the land was occupied before Government could
intervene effectively. Consequently, a resettlement plan had to be developed during project
implementation to ensure adequate compensation to project affected persons. (See Annex 8:
Resettlement Experience in UBSIP, for details).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is expected to achieve its original development objectives, with only a few
shortcomings. Taking into account that this project was the first Bank urban development
operation in Mongolia, the overall objectives of the project were thus met in a satisfactory
manner. In terms of its general objectives (See Section 3.1), UBSIP: (a) satisfactorily addressed
the inequity of services between the ger and formal housing areas, thereby improving the quality
of life of the low-income population; (b) satisfactorily restored levels and quality of water supply
services in Ulaanbaatar, and made that supply accessible to seven ger areas; and (c) developed
more efficient and autonomous, performance-oriented institutions in a highly satisfactorily
manner. UBSIP has had a good effect in terms of replicability, as the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) has completed a similar project in secondary towns in parallel to UBSIP. Another ADB
project, covering additional secondary towns, is under implementation.

The ICR ratings for the specific project objectives (see Section 3.1) are given in Table 4.1 and
substantiated thereafter:

                            Table 4.1: Outcome/Achievement Ratings

        Project Objective                                                Rating

(a)     Improve quality, quantity and reliability of water supply        Satisfactory
(b)     Substantially lower unit costs of water supply                   Marginally
                                                                         Satisfactory
(c)     Improve ger area infrastructure and access to water and          Satisfactory
        sanitation
(d)     Improve reliability and quality of city water distribution       Highly Satisfactory
        system
(e)   Reduce water wastage                                               Highly Satisfactory
(f)   Convert to quantity-based water and sanitation billing system      Satisfactory
(g)   Develop USAG towards commercially-oriented public utility          Highly Satisfactory



Objective (a): Improve quality, quantity and reliability of water supply. This objective,
which was aimed primarily at the population in the predominantly low-income ger areas, was
satisfactorily met, although the number of ger areas had to be reduced from twelve to seven.
Nevertheless, because of the population increase in the ger areas due to in-migration, the number
of project beneficiaries was about the same as originally envisaged.



                                                  - 6 -

Objective (b): Substantially lower unit costs of water supply. Achievement of this objective
is rated marginally satisfactory. The project has not yet brought down unit costs of water supply
to ger areas, as the investment and operating costs of ger area water supply through connection to
the network were higher than anticipated, and per capita consumption has not yet reached
projected levels. However, the price differential between water sold at ger area kiosks and prices
charged to apartment dwellers shrank from twelve times before project commencement to less
than three times at the time of project completion. This was due to the raising of water tariffs for
the apartment dwellers, while holding ger area tariffs unchanged. The highly ambitious and
unrealistic target to have identical tariffs for ger and apartment residents could not be met as
apartment water tariffs could not be raised to the required extent. Given the willingness of ger
area residents to pay the tariffs charged, and the weak financial situation of USAG, reducing ger
area tariffs to be on par with apartment tariffs was not a serious option.

Objective (c): Improve ger area infrastructure and access to water and sanitation. This
objective was met satisfactorily in accordance with the appraisal estimates. The quantity and
quality of urban services to the five project supported ger areas have been raised greatly through
this project. Further, the project contributed to raising Government's awareness of the dire need
for improvements in basic public services to the residents of ger areas.

Objective (d): Improve reliability and quality of city water distribution system. The
performance of the project towards meeting this objective was highly satisfactory. While
investments under this project constituted merely the first phase of a long-term program, the
initial stage was successful in strengthening Ulaanbaatar's distribution network and in providing
an increased and more reliable water supply, both to the formal housing areas and to the seven ger
areas covered by the project.

Objective (e): Reduce water wastage. The project exceeded the original objective and thus is
rated highly satisfactory because of the effectiveness of the water metering program and other
water conservation efforts. The successful achievement of this objective further demonstrated the
effectiveness of the Government's policy of "user pays" pricing.

Objective (f): Convert to quantity-based water and sanitation billing system. This objective
was met by the project in a highly satisfactory manner through the installation of water meters,
and the successful development and effective implementation of computerized billing and
collection systems.

Objective (g): Develop USAG towards commercially-oriented public utility. Achievement
of this objective is rated highly satisfactory, as the project exceeded the goal to create an
enterprise capable of assuming greater autonomy in its operations and management. Success in
this field was accorded a relatively high degree of risk. With this backdrop, the achievement of
reforming USAG as a corporate entity, and its conversion towards an autonomous utility with a
commercial orientation has been remarkable. The progress achieved here augurs well for the
long-term sustainability of the investments made under this project.




                                                   - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
As indicated earlier, project design proved to be appropriate and remarkably robust. The overall
quality of construction is considered acceptable. The ratings of the components are given in
Table 4.2 and are justified in the following paragraphs.

                                   Table 4.2: Component Ratings

        Component                                      Rating
        Water supply
          City Water Supply                                    Satisfactory
          Ger Area Water Supply                                Satisfactory
          Water Wastage Reduction                           Highly Satisfactory
        Emergency Sewerage System Repairs                      Satisfactory
        Ger Infrastructure Upgrading Program                   Satisfactory
        Institutional Development                           Highly Satisfactory



Water Supply

City Water Supply. This component was substantially completed as anticipated and is rated
satisfactory. Increased water pressure in the secondary distribution network in the core city has
improved service levels. UBSIP2 will build on project achievements through further optimization
of network operation using appropriate hydraulic modeling. Completed works under the
component included:

    (a) Transmission mains. The eastern and western parts of the Southern Link were completed
    with Government funds. The transmission link (18 km) between the four reservoirs ­
    Northwest, ¾ district, Tasgan, and Northeast ­ was partially completed. The southern
    transmission link was not constructed as it is no longer necessary for the integrity of the
    system.

    (b) Reservoirs. Rehabilitation and commissioning of the X Reservoir and Northeast
    Reservoir were completed, and the telemetry system has been installed. A liquid chlorination
    station, replacing the earlier gas chlorination, has been installed in the X Reservoir to disinfect
    the water. The remote telemetry system is operational.

    (c) Valves. Flow control and pressure reducing valves have been installed. Further work
    needed is included in UBSIP2.

Ger Area Water Supply. Overall, this component achieved the Staff Appraisal Report's (SAR's)
expectations satisfactorily, as connecting the kiosks to the network enabled more reliable and
convenient water supply to about 140,000 people who fetch their water from the water kiosks of
the seven ger areas included in the project (Gandan, Yarmag, Nisekh, Hailaast, Denjin, Sharkhad,
and Tolgoit). However, the expected increase in per capita consumption from about 10 lcd in 1998
to 15-20 lcd at the end of the project has not materialized so far; this will be further monitored



                                                  - 8 -

and investigated under UBSIP2. The component comprised the following works:

    (a) Laying of over 75 km of high density polyethylene insulated pipes in the seven ger areas;
    construction of 20 new water kiosks, and rehabilitation of 117 existing kiosks. These kiosks
    are connected to the network and will be fed by pipes, instead of being supplied by water
    tankers.

    (b) Laying of two pipeline links to connect the city network to the ger areas: a 7.1 km link
    between the Northeast Reservoir and the Hailaast Reservoir; and a 2.7 km link to the Tasgan
    Reservoir. Construction of three semi-underground reservoirs - Yarmag and Sharkhad, with a
    capacity of 500 m3 each, and Hailaast with a capacity of 1,500 m3. The Yarmag system is fed
    by a borehole in Yarmag, which was drilled and commissioned under the project.

Water Wastage Reduction. The installation of water meters, repair of plumbing fixtures, and
the rehabilitation of CTPs, resulted in a reduction in unaccounted for water. Under this
component, 18,000 cold and hot water meters were provided, 800 of which were installed in
institutional and commercial premises, and the rest in apartment buildings. The final tranche of
4,000 meters (of the originally planned 22,000 meters to be installed) could not be procured as
there was uncertainty until late in the project as to whether adequate balance was available in the
Credit. A meter test and repair bench was procured and installed, and is operational. In addition,
plumbing fixtures were installed in 139 apartment blocks, assisting 4,431 households in
substantially reducing water wastage. The metering program and plumbing fixture replacements
are now mainstreamed and are being funded by the utility and apartment owners respectively.

Following the striking water savings of 40 percent and energy savings of 45 percent achieved in a
demonstration pilot project for the rehabilitation of CTPs funded under the AusAID grant, it was
agreed that a new sub-component to rehabilitate CTPs would be included under the Credit.
Accordingly, 11 CTPs were rehabilitated under the Credit. The remaining CTPs will be
rehabilitated using OSNAAG funds.

Emergency Sewerage System Repairs. Under this small component, which is rated as
satisfactory, a sewerage inspection and maintenance vehicle was procured for needed investigative
work and emergency repair.

Ger Area Infrastructure Upgrading Program. This component, funded under the AusAID
Grant, is rated satisfactory as it fully met original objectives. Quality of life of over 130,000
inhabitants in the five ger areas of Chingeltei, Denjin, Dambadarjaa, Gandan, and Hailaast has
been raised through investments in: (a) flood protection infrastructure, including levees, drains,
and culverts; (b) footpaths, gravel roads, foot bridges and road bridges; (c) refuse bins, garbage
collection trucks, and compactors; and (b) bath houses and/or laundry facilities.

During implementation, street lighting was added to the roads being constructed to ensure
compliance with applicable MUB safety regulations. Also, as a result of a needs assessment
survey carried out during the early phase of project implementation, and the continued dialogue
with community leaders, some effective additions and revisions became necessary, including



                                                   - 9 -

increased flood control in Dambadarjaa, a larger number of road and foot bridges, an increase in
garbage bins, and the construction of bath houses in Yarmag, and in Naran. However, the overall
scope of the component had to be scaled down due to the depreciation of the Australian dollar
during project implementation.

Institutional Development. Overall, achievements under this component are rated highly
satisfactory. The component provided technical assistance for project management during the
entire period of project implementation, and supported USAG on a variety of institutional
development matters. In view of a number of policy decisions by the Government of Mongolia
(GOM) and legislative actions, it was no longer appropriate to carry out the urban management
and ger/city development and strategy studies envisaged in the SAR. The ratings are discussed in
more detail below:

    (a) Technical assistance for project management and related activities. The SAR had
    optimistically envisaged that technical assistance for project management would only be
    required for the first two years. In practice, this turned out to be woefully inadequate
    because: (i) detailed designs completed during project preparation were not complete and had
    to be revised; and (ii) of the extremely slow progress in implementation during the first two
    years, due to the lack of experience of project agencies in working with IDA procedures, and
    the lack of familiarity of IDA staff with Mongolian conditions. Consequently, consulting
    support was required throughout the project period for review of detailed designs and
    technical specifications, preparation of bid documents for ICB and NCB packages, assisting
    the PMU with bid evaluation as per IDA requirements, and on-the-job training of PMU staff.
    Technical assistance was also provided for community consultation, in particular for the ger
    area upgrading component, land acquisition and resettlement, etc. While the original design
    of the project was inadequate for this subcomponent, the actual outcome met project needs
    and can therefore be rated satisfactory.

    (b) Institutional Strengthening of USAG. Achievements here significantly exceeded original
    expectations and the rating is highly satisfactory. USAG was incorporated under Mongolia's
    Partnership and Company Law in December 1997. There has been significant organizational
    strengthening in terms of reduction of management hierarchies, introduction of matrix
    organization structure, and increase in staff responsiveness. The customer service department
    has been expanded to include meter reading, billing and collections. Similarly, the technical
    division has been given increased responsibility for repairs and maintenance. USAG prepared
    a business plan for 2001-05 to provide strategic direction to management.

        Commercial Accounting. USAG has successfully introduced commercial accounting and
        in 1998 obtained the certificate of implementation of the international accounting system.
        As required under the Credit Agreement, water supply and sewerage accounts were
        separated from 2000. Management information systems were implemented in 2000,
        assisting in effective supervision and timely decision making.

        Hydraulic Modeling. Under assistance from the project, a hydraulic model of the city
        water distribution network was constructed using Water Net. The model was used as an



                                                 - 10 -

        operational tool during the setting of the control valves and other network equipment.
        The model will be fine-tuned under UBSIP2.

        Asset Maintenance & Management System. The computerized maintenance system is
        now fully functional. The maintenance system will be further improved under UBSIP2 by
        networking it with the workshop and the other operational centers of USAG.

        Training. All management levels of USAG received training through overseas programs
        and study tours to a host of countries. Local training was provided to staff under annual
        training plans.

    (c) Computerized billing and collection systems. The performance of this component is
    highly satisfactory as the systems are functioning effectively and have resulted in excellent
    collection performance.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR calculated economic rates of return (ERRs) of 18 percent and 14.4 percent for the ger
area water supply component and the city water supply component respectively, with a weighted
average ERR of 15.9 percent. For the ger area infrastructure improvement component, the
economic benefits in terms of time savings for fetching water, as well as improvements in health,
motivation, hygiene, and property values, were not quantified; however, the expected benefits to
the ger population were considered to be direct and substantial. A $1.4 million road construction
investment in the ger areas was expected to yield an ERR of not less than 40 percent. Although
many of the project benefits could not be quantified, the SAR expected that the actual overall
economic benefits from the project would be substantial.

Ger area water supply. In estimating an ERR of the ger area water supply for the ICR, the 2003
water price at kiosks was used as a proxy for consumers' willingness to pay. While the appraisal
had assumed the daily per capita water consumption in the ger areas to reach about 20 liters,
consumption is now expected to increase much more gradually to 15 liters per capita. Also,
project costs per liter of water turned out to be higher, because technical measures to prevent
freezing were more expensive than originally planned. The ERR on the basis of revised estimates
is 13 percent.

City water supply: Owing to a number of engineering refinements in the city distribution network,
investments under the project could be reduced without effect on the overall supply and
effectiveness of the system. Metering had a strong positive effect in reducing both wastage and
consumption. The "with project" and "without project" comparison benefits from lower water
supply investments and greater savings from reduced consumption of valuable resources, yielding
an ERR of about 21 percent. The weighted average ERR for the overall water supply component
is re-estimated at 18 percent.

Ger area infrastructure: Ger area upgrading has resulted in property value increases and had a
multiplier effect on economic activity overall. Construction or upgrading of roads and foot
paths, although totaling only about 30 km (compared to the SAR estimate of 45 km) as well as
the construction of bridges, significantly shortened transportation time and costs for all ger


                                                 - 11 -

residents. Likewise, bathhouses, laundry facilities and street lighting contribute to improvements
in health and security of the population that generate economically measurable benefits. In
keeping with the SAR, no efforts were made to quantify these benefits at project completion. As
part of the feasibility study for UBSIP2, ERRs were calculated for road and drain improvements
in the ger areas, and were found to be robust (see Annex 8 for details). It is reasonable to assume
that these ERRs are indicative of ERRs for UBSIP road and drain investments as well.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
While the SAR included an excellent financial section with financial analysis, projections and
assumptions for USAG, a financial rate of return for the project itself was not provided. UBSIP2,
which also devotes a major portion of project investments to improvements in ger area water
supply, similarly did not compute a financial rate of return due to the disparate nature of
investments. The UBSIP2 Project Appraisal Document does contain an extensive description of
the current and projected financial performance of USAG based on the latest (April 2004)
information about the company.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project had a substantial impact on the institutions responsible for water supply and
distribution in Ulaanbaatar, as well as on the municipality's capacity for designing and
implementing programs in the city's ger areas. Project supported legal changes, restructuring,
and institutional strengthening allowed USAG to become an autonomous public utility responsible
for all operational and organizational decisions. However, the somewhat ambitious project target
of full financial autonomy for USAG is yet to be achieved, as MUB and Government did not
approve tariff increases requested by USAG. Under UBSIP2, financial objectives for USAG have
been agreed; these will enable USAG to achieve financial viability in a phased manner. UBSIP2
includes disbursement conditions to ensure that disbursements for project components are
conditional on the phased financial objectives being met through appropriate tariff increases.

USAG's reforms also created an effective separation between its water and sewerage operations.
In addition, as described earlier, the project has supported the development of system planning,
hydraulic modeling, repairs and maintenance, commercial accounting, and billing and collection
systems. Although no institutional development support was envisaged for OSNAAG, it
nevertheless benefited from the establishment of a computerized billing and collection system.

In more general terms, the project raised the municipality's awareness of service delivery to the
residents of ger areas, and has mainstreamed the planning and development of ger areas. In
addition, the project achieved significant improvements in Mongolia's capacity to design and
manage large urban infrastructure projects. Project management also transferred knowledge in
several new technologies to USAG.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Strictly speaking the project did not face any factors outside the control of Government.
However, there were frequent changes in Government during the period 1998-2000, which
affected decision making and delayed implementation. This was further aggravated by the fact
that the climatic conditions in Mongolia only permit construction during a six-month period each


                                                     - 12 -

year. The implementing agency's lack of experience in implementing an IDA project, combined
with the above factors caused significant start-up delays, and to the project being rated
"unsatisfactory" in 2000.

In a similar vein, while preventing squatting on land required for the project would normally be
considered to be within Government control, the unique nomadic traditions of Mongolia and the
property rights regimen in place in Mongolia until recently resulted in the unanticipated need for
land acquisition and resettlement. This affected project implementation for almost a whole
construction season, until resettlement implementation plans, acceptable to IDA, could be
developed, approved, and implemented.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in setting up and funding the Project Management Unit. Delays in staffing the unit
with a full complement of capable local staff and providing an adequate budget allocation
hampered project start-up activities. In the early implementation stage, the delineation of
responsibilities between PMU, the Municipal Design Institute, and the Construction Department
was deficient and affected project implementation.

Procurement delays. Mongolia enacted and implemented new procurement laws in 2001, which
introduced high level interdepartmental tender committees. This added another layer to the
procurement process. Further, as members of these committees were not familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines, in the case of a number of contracts, IDA No Objections were
significantly delayed until issues were clarified and acceptable award recommendations were
received.

Tariff Adjustments. USAG sought MUB approval in 2000 for the tariff increases required to
meet the financial covenants under the Credit agreement. While the Mayor and senior
Government officials agreed in principle with the proposals, Government approved much lower
increases than requested. Consequently, while USAG generated adequate revenues to meet
operating expenses and debt service, in 2002 and 2003 it was only able to cover less than two
thirds of depreciation charges.

Counterpart Funds. MUB was unable to provide the 10 percent counterpart fund requirement
during the initial stages of the project, which affected implementation. However, this issue was
resolved from the time of the mid-term review.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Limited project management capacity during the initial project phase. As UBSIP was the
first IDA urban project in the country, neither MUB nor the PMU had any experience of
procurement, disbursement, reporting and project management. This resulted in slow progress
during the initial stages of the project. However, the PMU became quite effective after the
mid-term review of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs totaled $21.5 million, about 10 percent less than the appraisal estimate of



                                                    - 13 -

$23.6 million. IDA financed about 74 percent of the total project costs, and AusAID about 15
percent, with the remaining 11 percent coming from MUB. The principal reason for the lower
project costs was the depreciation of the Australian dollar, the currency in which the AusAID
grant was denominated. (The AusAID Grant of A$6.125 million, which financed 100 percent of
the ger area upgrading component, was equivalent to $4.9 million at the time of appraisal and
$3.7 million in December 2003.) In view of the fluctuations of the SDR and the Australian dollar
vis-à-vis the US dollar, the PMU managed the utilization of the Credit and Grant amounts
conservatively, resulting in undisbursed balances of SDR 350,000 and A$445,000, which were
refunded.

As can be seen from Annex 1 and Annex 2, both the physical outputs and the component costs
were somewhat different from appraisal estimates. In the case of the IDA Credit supported water
supply components, this was due to the higher than anticipated costs and inadequate designs for
ger area water supply, which resulted in coverage being limited to seven ger areas. Savings in the
city water supply component (for reasons discussed in Section 4.2) mostly benefited the ger area
water supply component. The remainder was utilized for the higher costs (about 20 percent more
than appraised) incurred on the technical assistance component.

In the case of the ger area upgrading component, the appraised program was changed to
accommodate priorities identified through community consultation during implementation, within
the lower (US) dollar amounts available.

PMU and USAG maintained accounting records in a commendable fashion. Project accounts and
USAG accounts were audited on time, and the audit reports are unqualified.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered likely for investment programs carried out under the project. USAG,
which will operate and maintain all project water supply investments, is a well-managed entity
with good technical expertise, and has sound accounting systems in place. Although it did not
fully meet project financial covenants on cost recovery from 2000 onward, USAG did not run a
cash deficit. USAG's financial sustainability has again been addressed in UBSIP2, and agreement
was reached with the government, MUB, and USAG about the utility's long-term financial
objectives. In addition, specific tariff increases for 2004 and 2006 are conditions of UBSIP2
Credit disbursement.

Ger area upgrading investments will be maintained by the respective districts of MUB out of their
regular budgets. An initial review of MUB finances has been carried out by IDA, and will be
followed up by technical assistance to increase municipal revenues and reduce costs under the
policy matrix of the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits for Mongolia. Government has
indicated "in principle" agreement to levy appropriate property taxes on both apartments and ger
area properties through amendments to existing laws. Property tax revenues will replace the
earlier envisaged fees to be collected from beneficiary ger area residents. Municipal finance issues
will be one of the key subjects of on-going dialogue with MUB during the implementation of
UBSIP2.



                                                 - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All investments under the project are fully operational and are now under the responsibility of
USAG and the respective MUB departments and districts. UBSIP impact indicators will continue
to be monitored as part of UBSIP2 supervision.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in project identification was satisfactory. As discussed in Section 3.1,
project identification was based on a comprehensive urban review, was consistent with the Bank
Group's CAS for Mongolia, and incorporated the policy objectives of Government and MUB.

IDA's preparation assistance is rated satisfactory. IDA made special efforts to ensure that the
Government had adequate resources for project preparation through a PHRD Grant and an
AusAID Grant. Consultants appointed for project preparation had appropriate cold climate
experience. Preparation built in community participation to ensure that project investments were
demand driven.

Project appraisal was carried out in a satisfactory manner by an experienced IDA appraisal team,
comprised of experts in all relevant fields. The appraisal addressed all aspects of Government and
IDA project requirements, and incorporated lessons learned from Bank urban sector operations in
other countries. While environmental safeguards were well addressed through an EA and an
EMP, the failure to address possible land acquisition and resettlement issues through a
Resettlement Policy Framework affected implementation. In addition, as this was the first IDA
urban operation in Mongolia, some of the country-specific appraisal assumptions turned out to be
optimistic, e.g., extent of consultant support required for project implementation, and the
estimation of project costs. On the other hand, the choice of design parameters appropriate for
extreme cold conditions were perhaps overly conservative. In hindsight, financial covenants
relating to USAG appear to have been overly ambitious.

The appraisal team produced a comprehensive and excellent Staff Appraisal Report, which
included a good assessment of project risks. Negotiations were held in Mongolia in May 1997
and their outcome was satisfactory. The long delay of over a year between Board approval and
Credit effectiveness is unfortunately consistent with the experience of most projects in East Asia,
and is partly due to the inherent delays in obtaining Government approvals. One could however
make a case for delaying appraisal, negotiations, and Board presentation until most of the
requirements, which in the end became conditions of Credit effectiveness, had been met in the
earlier stages of project processing. In this context, this project would have benefited from the
use of a readiness filter which is now utilized in the East Asia and Pacific Region.

7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision efforts were highly satisfactory, as assessed by the CPPR dated May 2002; of
the seven projects in the Mongolia portfolio, only UBSIP was rated highly satisfactory. The
CPPR commended the IDA supervision team for: excellent relationship with the Borrower and
USAG; focus on development impact and sustainability, in particular on the financial performance



                                                  - 15 -

of USAG, and on the monitoring of outcome indicators; effective handling of unanticipated
resettlement issues; and the high quality of supervision reporting, including their continued focus
on the effectiveness of technical assistance. The quality of supervision was maintained at a high
level until the conclusion of the project. Supervision teams systematically monitored project
implementation progress vis-à-vis the relevant key indicators established at appraisal; indicators
obtained during the final supervision mission are shown in Annex 1, along with the latest ICR
estimates.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
IDA performance is rated satisfactory overall, rather than highly satisfactory, because
accomplishments during the lending phase were not at the same highly satisfactory level as during
the supervision phase. The project benefited from consistent and experienced task teams, with
only one change in team leadership during virtually the entire preparation and implementation
period.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in all phases of the preparation process was satisfactory, particularly
in the context of UBSIP being the first IDA urban operation in the country. The Government
recognized early on the need to address the urban sector issues in a timely and effective manner.
It sought and utilized an IDA TA Credit of $250,000 to finance project preparation. In early
1995 Government appointed a project coordinator, with a small team, followed by the
establishment of an inter-ministerial Steering Committee. Government, MUB, and USAG worked
closely with IDA missions to ensure that the project was prepared to meet IDA standards.
Preparation work was based on a Master Plan for Ulaanbaatar water supply, prepared with JICA
assistance. Detailed engineering was carried out with the help of AusAID-funded consultants.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during the first three years after Board approval was disappointing.
While the Credit Agreement was signed on July 31, 1997, i.e., in the same month as Board
approval, effectiveness conditions were not met for a whole year. A variety of problems,
including delays in procurement due to lack of experience with IDA procurement guidelines,
delays in recruitment of senior PMU staff and external consultants, and frequent changes of
Government, continued to hamper progress until after the mid-term review in April 2000.
Thereafter, Government, MUB, and the PMU made special efforts to address the issues affecting
implementation progress. As a result, project implementation gained the needed momentum, and
required only an 18-month extension of the closing date.

On balance, Government's overall performance is rated satisfactory. This rating is justified
despite the failure of GOM and MUB to raise USAG water tariffs sufficiently to meet the financial
covenant during the second half of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PMU, which was responsible for project implementation, got off to a slow start because of
delays in staffing. However, once it settled down and became familiar with IDA procedures, it
did an excellent job of coordinating project matters effectively between Government, MUB, and
USAG, as well as with the IDA task team. It should be particularly complimented for its


                                                - 16 -

scrupulous application of IDA procurement guidelines, exceptional handling of the unanticipated
resettlement issues, and for maintaining project accounts in an exemplary manner. It is primarily
due to the efforts of the PMU that UBSIP has been implemented satisfactorily, and as such the
performance of the implementing agency is rated highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account that UBSIP is the first IDA urban project in Mongolia, the satisfactory
performance during the preparation phase, the exceptional efforts during the second half of the
implementation period, and for bringing the project to a successful completion with only a
minimal delay (of one construction season), overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory,
even though (as mentioned earlier) the ambitious financial covenants for USAG were not fully
met.

8. Lessons Learned

A number of valuable lessons were learned from the implementation of this project, as discussed
below. These have been incorporated in the follow-on project, UBSIP2, as appropriate.

(a)     Procurement ­ UBSIP procurement became quite complex as a result of a number of
factors, including (i) IDA prior review of all aspects of procurement from designs, bid documents,
and contract awards; (ii) a large number of small packages; and (iii) the enactment and
implementation of a new procurement law in Mongolia from 2001, which introduced high level
interdepartmental committees for procurement, and delayed contract awards significantly. These
issues have been addressed in UBSIP2 through better packaging and establishment of prior review
thresholds. In addition, following the IDA Country Procurement Assessment Report of 2003,
Mongolia's procurement law is being revised with a view to overcoming the major issues
identified.

(b)     Consultant support for design review, construction supervision, and project management
­ During implementation it was evident that the SAR assumption that consultant support for these
activities would only be required during the first two years was much too optimistic. In practice,
consultant support became essential until the extended project closing date of December 2003.
UBSIP2 will include consultant support throughout that project. In addition, in order to improve
construction supervision, UBSIP2 will involve USAG through a Project Implementation Unit,
with adequate staff.

(c)     Designs ­ A number of design issues came to light as a result of the UBSIP experience.
Chief among these is the extent of protection required against freezing. Another issue is the need
to standardize designs of pumping stations, bath houses and water kiosks. These matters have
been addressed in UBSIP2.

(d)     Institutional development of USAG ­ While institutional development of USAG was very
successful overall, a number of second generation issues remain. These include the development
of policies for metering and house connections (in particular in ger areas), an appropriate role for
the private sector (especially in the operation of kiosks and water tankers), further improvements
to maintenance, development and implementation of a communication strategy, and on-going
upgrading of staff skills. Again, these issues are being addressed under UBSIP2.



                                                - 17 -

(e)     Financial sustainability of USAG ­ As discussed earlier, UBSIP did not succeed in its
ambitious objective of making USAG commercially viable from an early stage. This was due to a
variety of factors, including the need for a phased progression to commercial operation and the
lack of commitment to USAG's financial objectives on the part of MUB and Government. These
matters are being addressed under UBSIP2 by making the periodic tariff increases required for
financial viability a disbursement condition for implementation of the physical investment
program.

(f)     Medium-term water and sanitation strategy ­ A medium-term water and sanitation
strategy for Ulaanbaatar is needed to determine, inter alia, the feasibility of expanding the water
supply network to ger areas, the strategy for sanitation in ger areas, the institutional framework
for the water sector (in particular the role of OSNAAG), and the prospects for involving the
private sector in the overall management of USAG. IDA will assist Government in obtaining
grant technical assistance for this work.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On behalf of the Borrower, the UBSIP PMU has prepared an excellent and comprehensive
contribution to the ICR, which is included in Annex 9.

After review of IDA's final draft ICR, the Mayor of Ulaanbaatar sent the following message to
IDA as part of a letter dated June 17, 2004:

"We have carefully studied the Report. It is our pleasure to emphasize that the successful
implementation and completion of this project, funded by the Credit from the International
Development Association and the Grant by the Australian Agency for International Cooperation,
is a result of a close collaboration throughout several years between Government of Mongolia,
International Development Association and Municipality of Ulaanbaatar.

The project works aimed on development of city water supply system, water waste reduction and
introduction of new technologies had a substantial impact on the increased water supply to
population of Ulaanbaatar city and on the acquisition of new techniques and technologies by
Mongolian construction companies. Furthermore, water supply systems, roads and drainages
constructed in ger areas and waste collection and disposal equipment supplied under the Project
significantly contributed to the improvement of health and to the comfortable living of ger area
residents, and it is the pleasure to highlight an excessive impact of this important project to
development of ger infrastructure.

Hereby, we are pleased to notify that the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar accepts World Bank's
assessment of the Project implementation. We look forward to further cooperation on successful
execution of the Second Ulaanbaatar Services Project and, moreover, on resolution of
Ulaanbaatar ger area sanitation aspects."

(b) Cofinanciers:
AusAID, the project's Australian cofinancier, reviewed the final draft version of this ICR and indicated that
it had no additional comments, except that: "The project issues have been well documented, it is clearly



                                                   - 18 -

reflected what the project has achieved, which challenges it has faced and which way it is going ahead."

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) (i) Number of water kiosks served by pipe 190                                      137
supply
(a) (ii) Ratio of unit price of water to ger areas 1                                   2.76
compared to apartments
(a) (iii) Number of ger plots with access to       12,120                              8,600
footpath/road within 50 meters
(a) (iv) Per capita ger area consumption of        15-20                               10
water
(a) (v) Growth of ger infrastructure revenues      1,000                               Study was deferred

(b) (i) Number of water meters installed           22,000                              18,000. In addition, 6,500 meters were
under project                                                                          installed by OSNAAG on its own account.
(b) (ii) Actual vs. Planned budget                 97 Tg million                       100 Tg million
expenditures for system maintenance
(b) (iii) Operating Income/(Operating              100 Tg million                      82 Tg million
costs+Debt service)%

(c) (i) Decline in per capita water                230 liters                          150 liters for HH with individual meters
consumption in apartment buildings
(c) (ii) Collection rates of water revenues for    98                                  98
apartments (%)
(c) (iii) Amounts of water delivered by tanker     650                                 1,301
truck (ton)
(c) (iv) Ratio of population served by USAG        540                                 727
to number of USAG staff
(
(d) (i) Actual disbursements vs. targets (%)       100                                 99.8
(d) (ii) Planned vs. actual bid documents          100                                 100
prepared by each December
(d) (iii) Planned vs. actual bids awarded each 100                                     100
April


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Transmission mains to strengthen existing          17.1 km                             17.1 km
network
Rehabilitation of N and NE reservoirs              Completed                           Completed
Repair and replacement of existing valves          Completed                           Completed, but additional work needed
Provision of spare parts                           Provided                            Provided
Installation of water meters for commercial
and institutional customers                        800                                 800
Plumbing fixtures provided                         4431 households                     4431 households
Water meter testing and repair bench               Expected                            Completed
Rehabilitation of CTPs                             1                                   12
Sewerage investigation equipment                   Expected                            Completed
No. of ger beneficiary ger areas for water         7                                   7
supply improvements
Water kiosk construction or rehabilitation         137                                 137
Ger area upgrading:
 Length paved roads (m)                            2674                                2674
Length of gravel roads (m)                         3366                                3366
Length of foot paths (m)                           17,754                              17,754
No. of bathhouses                                  3                                   3




                                                                    - 20 -

No. of laundry houses           1                  1
No. of road and foot bridges    11                 11
Length of drainage (m)          5,970              5,970
Waste collection bins           650                650

1End of project




                                         - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs      (in US$ '000)


                            Staff Appraisal Estimates            ICR Estimates          Percentage of Appraisal
                           IDA    GOV AusAID     Total     IDA   GOV    AusAID Total   IDA  GOV AusAID Total


A. Water Supply


 1. City Water            4,631    920           5,551    1,244   742          1,986    0.27 0.81          0.36


 2. Ger Water             6,630                  6,630    9,905   590          10,495   1.49               1.58


 3. Waste Reduction       3,011    341           3,352    1,838    3      70   1,911    0.61 0.01          0.57


                     S-T 14,272 1,261            15,533   12,987 1,335    70   14,392   0.91 1.06          0.93


B. Ger Area Upgrading                    4,557   4,557            394    2,632 3,026                 0.58 0.66


C. Sewerage                142                    142      169                  169     1.19               1.19


D. T.A.                   2,256           339    2,595    2,596    1     536   3,133    1.15         1.58 1.21


Other (Taxes, etc.)                809            809      220    615           835          0.76          1.03


            Grand Total 16,670 2,070     4,896   23,636   15,972 2,345   3,238 21,555   0.96 1.13    0.66 0.91

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                             3.30             6.60           0.20          4.20          14.30
                                    (3.30)            (6.60)        (0.20)         (0.00)        (10.10)
2. Goods                             4.00             0.50           0.30          1.10           5.90
                                    (4.00)            (0.50)        (0.30)         (0.00)        (4.80)
3. Services                          1.10             0.40           0.20          0.80           2.50
                                    (1.10)            (0.40)        (0.20)         (0.00)        (1.70)
4. Taxes and Duties                  0.00             0.00           0.00          0.80           0.80
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Other                                0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                             8.40             7.50           0.70          6.90          23.50
                                    (8.40)            (7.50)        (0.70)         (0.00)        (16.60)




                                                   - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               5.80              1.10             0.00              6.90
                                       (0.00)             (4.80)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (5.20)
2. Goods                                9.40               0.50              0.90             0.00             10.80
                                       (9.30)             (0.40)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (10.30)
3. Services                             1.60               0.00              1.50             0.00              3.10
                                       (1.60)             (0.00)            (1.20)            (0.00)           (2.80)
4. Taxes and Duties                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.30              0.30
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
Other                                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.50              0.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                11.00              6.30              3.50             0.80             21.60
                                       (10.90)            (5.20)            (2.20)            (0.00)           (18.30)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                  Financing Plan, at Appraisal and Actual
                                                  (US$ million equivalent)



                         Appraisal             Percentage                Actual                Percentage



Borrower                      2.0                     8.5                  2.3                         10.7
IDA                          16.7                     70.9                16.0                         74.4
AusAid                        4.9                     20.6                 3.2                         14.9



            Total            23.6                    100.0                21.5                        100.0




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                   Economic Rate of Return Calculations (ERR)

       Component                         Project Costs*                             ERR
          Name                          (Percent of Total)                  SAR             ICR
                                   SAR                   ICR


  Ger Area Water Supply            28.1                  48.7                18              13


    City Water Supply              37.7                  18.1                14              21


        Sub-Total                  65.7                  66.8                16              18


    Ger Infrastructure             19.3                   14                >40           See below


      * Total SAR project costs: US$23.6 million; Actual project costs: US$ 21.6 million.

As part of the feasibility work for the Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project,
economic benefits were assessed in terms of economic internal rates of return (EIRR). Although
investment costs are somewhat different in the First Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement project,
the EIRR results prepared for the second project are to a large degree indicative of the economic
benefits of the road projects in the Ulaanbaatar ger areas. Depending on the type and location of
the roads, the EIRRs range from 18 percent for two or three lane main roads to 36 percent for
river bank roads. Access roads yielded an EIRR of 28 percent.

For drain improvements, which also played an important role in the ger area infrastructure
improvement of the first project with a total length of 5,970 m completed, the feasibility study for
the second project calculated an EIRR of 20 percent.

In summary, all components of UBSIP yielded economic returns above the standard threshold of
12 percent, even when not taking full account of such benefits as health, security, and incremental
income increases from real estate property and rental values.




                                                - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Reconnaissance            4    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
              Mission, June                  URBAN ECONOMIST (1);
              1994                           URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1997                5    SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1)


 Supervision

              12/01/1997                3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PUBLIC UTILITY SPEC. (1)

              10/20/1998                2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          U               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

              03/10/1999                1    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)           U               S

              06/07/1999                3    SR. SANITARY ENGINEER            U               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)

              06/07/1999                2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          U               S
                                             UNIT DIRECTOR (1)

              02/23/2001                4    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);           S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECT (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1)

              06/07/2001                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (2); SOC. DEV.
                                             SPEC. (1)

              11/09/2001                5    INSTITUTIONAL SPEC (1);          S               S
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);



                                              - 25 -

                                                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                                FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1)

               04/08/2002                   1   SANITATION ENGINEER (1)               S              S

               07/31/2002                   3   LEAD MANAGEMENT SPEC.                 S              S
                                                (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                                (1); SOCIAL DEVELOP. SPEC.
                                                (1)

               04/11/2003                   1   INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)               S              S


 ICR
               November 2003               1     INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.                  S              S
                                                 (1); MUNICIPAL
                                                 ENGINEER (1);
                                                 FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                                 (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                                 (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 73.4                         415.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      13.7                           82.1
  Supervision                                89.7                         560.7
  ICR                                        12.0                           53.1
  Total                                     184.8                       1,093.2
Costs incurred up to FY99 were increased 15% to take into account the new accounting system introduced
in FY00.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report: Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project, Report No. 16379-MOG
2. Project Appraisal Document: Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project,
   Report No. 27578-MOG
3. Mongolia Review of Supervision Quality of Project Portfolio, May 2002
4. Mongolian Environmental Action Plan, February, 1995
5. Resettlement Assessment by Ecological Research Center, August 2003
5. Mongolia Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project, Technical Assistance Completion Report,
   December 2000
6. Final Feasiblity Study Report for UBSIP2, December 2003




                                                 - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Resettlement Experience in UBSIP

1.      As all land in Mongolia belonged to the State, the project appraisal did not envisage land
acquisition or resettlement as project construction was not anticipated on settled land.
Consequently, neither a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) nor a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) was prepared prior to project appraisal. However, during project implementation it was
found that migrants from the countryside had occupied land designated for the project without
permission. The municipality and project agencies were unable to stop settlement in the project
area (either in ger or in more formal housing areas). Even after redesigns of project activities to
minimize resettlement, some relocation in the project area became unavoidable in order to
construct the water supply system, roads, footpaths and drains.

2.      A Resettlement Implementation Plan (RIP) was prepared in March 2001, which after
review and clearance by the Bank, was the first resettlement instrument under a Bank-supported
project in Mongolia. The MUB General Manager issued a Decree on July 27, 2001 establishing a
Resettlement Working Group to implement the RIP. Staff at various levels working on
resettlement issues were trained on implementation of resettlement activities under a Bank Group
project.

3.      In the three years of implementation, occupants of 311 plots were either relocated or had
their plots reduced in size. A total of Tg 130 million (about US$110,000) was paid as cash
compensation. Project resettlement activities were completed in 2003. The following table
summarizes the resettlement activities carried out under the project.

                              Comparison of Resettlement with RIP

                                  Plots Affected                    Compensation Paid (Tg Million)
                       2001      2002       2003      Total       2001      2002       2003       Total
Planned                   262         49          0       311      270.7      219.4         0.0    490.1
Implemented               258         51          2       311        78.0      42.5         9.2    129.7


4.      The amount of Tg 130 million spent as cash compensation was only 27 percent of the cost
estimated in the RIP, even though the number of affected plots (311) remained the same. It
should be noted that the resettlement plans prepared for UBSIP were the first resettlement
instruments required by the Bank in Mongolia. During the RIP preparation, there was neither a
regulation nor precedent in determining replacement costs of houses and gers and therefore
estimates were necessarily rough.

5.      Resettlement Assessment. The Ecological Research Center, a domestic NGO, carried
out a resettlement assessment (RA), and found that resettlement had been carried out
satisfactorily. The RA noted that there were no complaints about the compensation paid. All
houses were compensated at replacement costs. The report states also that, overall, the livelihood
of people affected by resettlement had improved or at least did not deteriorate as a result of the
resettlement and their new houses had superior facilities and living conditions.



                                                - 30 -

6.      The RA did report some complaints, most of which were directed towards procedural or
documentary problems, such as receiving relocation notices less than one year in advance, delays
in revised relocation documentation, and delays in receiving the compensation funds. Apparently,
some households complained about the new housing conditions because they were not fully
satisfied with the offered relocation compensation. IDA has taken this issue into account when
preparing the follow-on UBSIP2 project, and will monitor this and any other potential problems
during project implementation.

7.      In summary, Bank Guidelines on resettlement were met by the project. The legal
framework for private land ownership has been further strengthened with the enactment of the
"Law on Allocation of Land to Mongolian Citizens for Ownership" in June 2002, which provides
guidance on land acquisition and resettlement. Consequently, resettlement planning and
implementation will see further improvements.




                                               - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's ICR Contribution

1.    ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE & DESIGN AND OF QUALITY AT
      ENTRY
1.1   Original Objective
      Full details are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); Report No 16379-MOG dated May
      27, 1997. The general objectives of the Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project are to: (i)
      address the inequity of services between ger and formal housing areas, thereby improving the
      quality of life of the low-income population; (ii) restore levels and quality of water supply services
      in the Municipality and make that supply accessible to the ger areas; and (iii) develop more
      efficient and autonomous, performance-oriented institutions, with a view to eventual privatization.

1.2   Revised Objective
      There have been no material changes to the main Project objectives during implementation.

1.3   Original Components
      The project was to achieve above objectives by implementing the following components:
      improvements to city and ger area water supply systems, water wastage reduction, ger area
      upgrading, emergency sewerage system repair, and institutional development.

1.4   Revised Components
      The Credit Agreement was not amended to provide for revisions to the Project's main components.
      Minor modifications in the scope of components were agreed between the Bank and the Borrower
      during missions and were incorporated into the associated Supervision mission Aide-Memoires.

      Following the first operations towards procurement of goods, namely pre-insulated polyethylene
      pipes, and with the commencement of civil works, the project came to the conclusion that unit costs
      for imported pipes and equipment were significantly underestimated and that several civil work
      procurement packages were omitted in design during Project preparation. That led to the difficulty
      to implement all project works as designed, and to the necessity to reduce the project scope and
      delay some components.

      Based on the experience of the first two years of procurement of goods, works and services, the
      Mid-term review of the Project concluded that USD30 million would be required to implement the
      Project as originally proposed. Consequently, the scope of the Project was reduced through
      elimination of some of the ger areas to be covered by water supply and ger upgrading components.

1.5   Quality at Entry
      The project was designed to meet the critical needs of the economy and urban population, and was
      consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mongolia to protect
      the poor and other groups vulnerable to the effects of country's economic transition, to improve
      economic infrastructure, and to promote commercial orientation of local public enterprises. Each
      project component was precisely studied and developed by professionals. By the time of project
      appraisal, the Bank had been assisting Mongolia with a number of projects on structural
      adjustment of banking system, rehabilitation and improvements to the transport and road sectors
      and of the Baganuur coal mining, and protection of vulnerable groups during the transition to a
      market economy system. The principal lesson learned from these operations is the lack of local
      familiarity with basic project activities like procurement and disbursement. This could have



                                                    - 32 -

impacts on significant project start-up delays and slower-than-expected progress thereafter.

During preparation and appraisal of the Project, the following major risk factors and lessons
learned from earlier projects in Mongolia were well identified, and the measures to mitigate these
risks were incorporated in the SAR and legal documents to reduce the overall project risk to the
acceptable level, even though these risks were realized during implementation.

(a)   Project Management Risk ­ As the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar had little experience and
      capacity in project management and procurement under the IDA procedures, the project
      faced the risks of implementation delay. Even though the technical assistance of the project
      preparation stage helped in developing procurement packages for the first and second years
      of the project, bidding documents for most of these packages were revised and amended.

(b)   Institutional Risks ­ The high degree of risk in this sector was given during the project
      appraisal with consideration of transition to the market economy. Sector Improvement
      Action Plan agreed at the negotiations and which defines steps aimed to eliminate this risk
      was successfully implemented.

(c)   Cost Recovery ­ At the stage of appraisal this risk was considered as dependent on the
      willingness of the MUB to make timely and adequate adjustments to the water supply tariffs
      in line with cost increases. During implementation of the Project it became apparent that not
      the willingness, but the ability of MUB to cause the Government to approve price
      adjustment, was the main factor.

      Despite restructuring and commercialization of USAG, the Government held the right to
      approve USAG's proposals on tariff adjustments and was reluctant to do so citing that this is
      a issue related to the livelihood of citizens. Although several tariff increases were introduced
      during the Project period, these adjustments have not yet brought tariffs to the level
      necessary to generate sufficient revenues to meet operating costs and the greater of
      depreciation or debt services.

(d)   Consumer Response to Block Metering ­ Initial negative reaction of residents to metering
      of apartment buildings was foreseen at the stage of appraisal. To reduce effects of this risk,
      the project implemented a comprehensive community awareness campaign on needs of
      metering and water reservations; it also repaired and replaced defective plumbing fixtures in
      apartments.

Some of the Bank's safeguard policies were applied and adequately addressed. Environment
impact assessment was carried out for water supply component, and construction of the Hailaast
reservoir was undertaken in accordance with the agreed Environment Management Plan. The
Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement was not assessed as applicable at the time of Project
Appraisal, while during the Project implementation the resettlement turned out to be a critical
issue. The Project developed a detailed Resettlement Action Plan, involving participation by
Government/MUB, contractors, community, and NGOs. The IDA Implementation Completion
Mission emphasized in its Aide Memoire that the activities specified in the Resettlement Action
Plans have been successfully completed.




                                             - 33 -

2.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
2.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective
    The Project achieved all its objectives and was implemented successfully. Construction of the
    water supply systems, which comprises of boreholes, reservoirs and pipelines, in 7 ger areas of
    Ulaanbaatar city resulted on provision of reliable and pure piped drinking water to over 140,000
    ger residents. Furthermore, development of urban services and infrastructure through building of
    roads, footpaths, bridges, drainage, and bathhouses in several ger areas significantly contributed to
    improved living conditions for the poor segment of the population.

    The Project's comprehensive actions towards rehabilitation and replacement of pipelines, valves
    and manholes, installation of telemetry system and reduction of water wastage have improved the
    operational efficiency of the city water supply system.

    The technical assistance implemented for the purposes of institutional, financial and technical
    strengthening of Water Supply and Sewerage Company (USAG) improved environment for more
    efficient and autonomous performance of the project beneficiary agency.

2.2 Output by Components
    Component 1:              Water Supply:

    Original Cost: US$ 11,995 thousand

    Actual Cost:     US$ 14,478 thousand

    The overall implementation of this component, aimed to improve quality of city and ger area water
    supply systems and reduce water losses and wastage, is assessed as satisfactory.

    Subcomponent 1 - City Water Supply System

    In response to increasing water demand by population, industrial and commercial entities of
    Ulaanbaatar city and for the purposes of provision of reliable operation of city water supply
    system, the Project constructed Southern link transmission main (7.2 km of 400 mm diameter steel
    pipe), and the link between Northeast and Tasgan reservoirs (6.3 km of 500 mm diameter. steel and
    ductile iron pipes) aimed to provide adequate distribution of flow and pressure from Upper and
    Central water sources to city and ger area systems.

    In order to improve the performance of the City water distribution network and create a reliable
    supply for the northern ger areas, the Project activated the unused Northeast and X Reservoirs,
    rehabilitated building, piping and power supply lines of these reservoirs and replaced equipment.
    The remote controlled telemetry system to measure pressure and flow at main points of city water
    supply system was installed on the basis of hydraulic modeling.

    To ensure sufficient pressure and flow at ger area water supply system, in addition to construction
    of control manholes, the flow control and pressure reducing valves have been installed at major
    junctions of pipeline. Piping at Bust nuur section of the Upper source transmission main has been
    replaced, and storm water run-off drainages were constructed at some locations.

    Subcomponent 2 ­ Ger Water Supply System ­ As indicated earlier, due to the funding
    constraints only seven ger areas were covered by water supply system under this subcomponent,


                                                - 34 -

instead of 12 ger areas as planned. A total of 75.6 km high- density polyethylene pipes fed by city
system or by independent well sources were installed in Yarmag, Nisekh, Gandan, Shar Khad,
Hailaast, Denjiin and Tolgoit ger areas, against a planned 93 km. Three reservoirs with capacity
of 500-1500 m3 each with a water heating house, were constructed in Yarmag, Hailaast, and
Sharkhad. Self-regulating heating cables were installed with the some pipes to protect the system
against freezing.

In the above named ger areas 20 new kiosks were constructed and 117 rehabilitated and all these
kiosks are connected to the network (for comparison: SAR proposed 25 new and 110 rehabilitated
kiosks in 12 ger areas).

Subcomponent 3 ­ Water Wastage Reduction Program ­ This subcomponent was successfully
implemented through installation of water meters in apartment buildings and premises of
commercial consumers, renovation of pumping equipment at water and heating distribution centers
(CTPs), replacement of plumbing fixtures and through comprehensive community awareness
program and introduction of incentive tariffs for metered consumers.

For the purposes of having accurate records and accounts of water consumed by domestic and
institutional customers and to encourage water saving policy, the project procured and installed
approximately 18,000 hot and cold water meters, and use of these meters as a billing instrument
has provided conditions for accurate recording of water sold. The metering program produced a
reduction of per capita water consumption, documented in statistics recorded by USAG and by the
Housing and Communal Services Authority (OSNAAG).

Successful implementation of works towards renovation of booster pumps and equipment and
installation of frequency modulators on 12 CTPs significantly contributed in elimination of low
water pressure experienced by residents in higher levels of apartment buildings, while installation
of automatic systems for pumping water based on demand consumption reduced both electricity
cost and water wastage by up to 35 percent. This program was greatly welcomed by apartment
residents.

In connection to works on rehabilitation of heating and water distribution centers, the project
procured 34 various items of new plumbing fixtures, including shower, kitchen and bathroom
faucets, flushing tanks for toilets, etc., and replaced leaking and defective ones in apartments
served by the rehabilitated CTPs.

Component 2: Ger areas upgrading

Original cost:           US$ 3,384 thousand

Actual cost:             US$ 3,045 thousand

The implementation of the Project component aimed to address inequity of services between the ger
and formal housing areas through development ger area infrastructure and upgrading, and thereby
improving the quality of life of the low income population and reducing the poverty is appraised as
satisfactory.

The planned and implemented ger area upgrading works were consistent with the main objectives



                                               - 35 -

of the project on poverty alleviation and infrastructure development.

The project constructed 17.8 km of paved footpath (wide 1 m) in Gandan, Denjiin and Hailaast to
ease labor of residents in fetching water, wood and coal, and to provide better access conditions.

Asphalt concrete and gravel paved roads (total length 10.8 km) and three auto bridges (18 m span)
were constructed and put into operation in Denjiin, Hailaast and Chingeltei ger areas.

About 6 km of concrete lined storm water protection drainages have been constructed in Chingeltei,
Denjiin. and Dambadarjaa ger areas. In accordance with the new norms for construction, these
drainages were supplemented by ravine water collection and flow reducing facilities. Based on
request by the community, the project installed 6 footbridges and 10 stairways for crossing over the
drainages.

The project procured and handed over to City maintenance companies of relevant districts of
Ulaanbaatar the solid waste collection vehicles with 5-18 tonne of loading or compacted capacity
and 0.02-7.5 m3 bins and containers.

A Kiosk with laundry was constructed and put into operation in Gandan ger area has been highly
appreciated by residents of this area and plays important role in improvement of hygiene and
sanitation.

In Yarmag, Denjiin, and Naran ger areas the Project constructed bathhouses, which provided with
additional services such as grocery shop, computer game rooms for children, hairdresser, beauty
salon, sauna and other facilities. These bathhouses are located nearby existing schools and have
been operated now under the management contracts.

The scope and quantities of works under the ger upgrading program were modified during the
project implementation due to the following reasons:

(a)      Ger areas have been expanded by new settlements as result of huge migration of the rural
         population to Ulaanbaatar city. Thus the project had to extend proposed length of roads,
         footpaths and drains.
(b)      Since the preparation stage, new standards were applied in construction, which required
         modifications to design and scope of the component (such as requirement to install street
         lighting along a new road).
(c)      Priorities of the community have changed from the first ger household survey in 1995, and
         the project made an effort to meet these needs, through constructing additional drains,
         roads and bridges.
(d)      Devaluation of the Australian dollar (which is the currency of the Grant Agreement),
         resulted on necessity to eliminate the scope or to drop out some works from the Project (at
         the time of Appraisal in 1997 the Grant of A$ 6.1 million was equivalent to US$ 4.9
         million, at Mid-term Review in 2000 - to US$ 3.7 million, and as of 31 December 2003 it
         amounted to US$ 3.3 million only).
(e)      Some works were removed from the scope of component with consideration of their
         efficiency and necessity, such as Gandan roadwork.

Totally above 160 thousand residents in 5 ger areas benefit from roads, footpaths, bridges,




                                             - 36 -

drainages. and bathhouses constructed under the Project.

Component 3: Emergency Sewerage System Repair

Original Cost:            US$117 thousand

Actual cost:              US$ 169 thousand

The project purchased and handed over to USAG a video inspection vehicle for sewerage
maintenance, which is equipped with computer and camera for examination of sewerage and
determination of circumstances causing pipeline blockage and other damage.

The vehicle enables detection of pipeline blockages, pipe cracks and other damage between two
control manholes of 150-1400 mm dia with use of big and small cameras on wheeled transporter
(one with rotation of 360 degrees), and provides for collecting, storing and printing pipeline
inspection data, copying data on compact and video disks. The equipment provides possibilities
for inspection and assessment of Ulaanbaatar sewerage system in whole, and supports development
and implementation of a long-term sewerage maintenance and renovation program. This
component is implemented satisfactory.

Component 4: Technical Assistance

Original cost:            US$ 2,197 thousand

Actual cost :             US$ 3,132 thousand

A.      Project Implementation and Management

This TA was planned for the first two years of Project implementation, however due to certain
circumstances the need to recruit international consultants for the period longer than expected
became apparent. Project management consultants have worked throughout the project
implementation and assisted the MUB to review detailed designs and technical specifications,
where necessary, for all project components; prepare ICB and NCB bid documents; establish
standard tendering and bid evaluation procedures in conformity with the IDA procurement
guidelines and principles. Consultants provided on-the-job training for PMU staff and significantly
contributed in introduction of new technology materials and methods of construction. Overall
performance of the Consultants under this assignment is assessed as satisfactory.

B.      USAG Institutional and Financial Strengthening

The technical assistance on financial management and institutional development of Ulaanbaatar
Water supply and sewerage company introduced a new accounting system in its financial
operation, and provided conditions for improvement of billing and collection procedures, enhanced
cash flow controlling and debt collection operation, better serving of customers.

The assistance resulted in unlimited capacity for data collection and processing. All departments
and unit of the entities have been connected to the internal data network. The performance criteria
system, which shows financial and operation indicators, was introduced and has been used for



                                           - 37 -

    annual planning and projections. A comprehensive program for training of USAG staff has been
    implemented under this technical assistance. Implementation of this technical assistance is
    assessed as highly satisfactory.

    C.       Water Network Modeling

    The Consultant under this technical assistance carried out review of the software earlier used by
    USAG, and identified, procured. and installed a new water network modeling software. They
    developed the first hydraulic modeling, created a supplementary database, and trained associated
    staff on use of the model for the further independent performance.

    The database comprises of technical characteristics, capacity, locations of all types and sizes of
    piping and reservoirs, water sources, collection and distribution pipelines, booster pumping
    stations, and valves. The main model developed on the basis of this information provides USAG
    with the possibility to control and make adjustments to existing network, to determine water supply
    requirements for new facilities and, to control pressure and flow at desired locations of the system.
    This technical assistance is rated as satisfactory.

    D.       USAG Maintenance Improvement

    The Consultants surveyed existing USAG facilities and equipment and assessed their physical
    conditions, estimated cost of maintenance and servicing, developed a database. They identified
    priority actions and assisted in preparation of an annual maintenance program.

    The Consultants appraised water supply and sewerage network and developed methods and
    procedures to prevent water losses and pipe corrosion, and for daily supervision and inspection of
    assets. This technical assistance introduced a computerized maintenance system to identify
    physical conditions and requirements for preventative measures of USAG facilities and equipment.
    This technical assistance is rated as satisfactory.

    E. An Urban Management and Ger/City Development Planning and Strategy Study

    Since 1998 the Mayor's office and City Design (Development) Institute had been developing a
    feasibility study for long-term Master Plan of Ulaanbaatar up to 2020. Actual development of the
    Master Plan was completed in 2001 and endorsed by Government of Mongolia in February 2002.
    The Master Plan fully covers ger area and infrastructure improvement planning. Therefore the
    technical assistance on study of urban management and ger/city development planning and strategy
    aimed to develop skills on physical, institutional and financial strategies and mechanisms of the UB
    municipality in planning of future developments was removed from the scope of the project. Funds
    allocated for this technical assistance were used for other works of Ger Area Upgrading
    component.

2.3 Institutional Development Impact
    The Project's institutional development impact was high. Ulaanbaatar Water Supply and
    Sewerage Company (USAG) became more commercially oriented, and although still owned by the
    government, it has achieved a high level of independence. It has established the regularly
    functioning Board of Directors, implemented financial management system with fully integrated
    computerized software package for maintaining records related to billing, accounting and



                                                - 38 -

    maintenance management operations, developed a 5-year business strategic plan.. In accordance
    with provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, USAG has introduced separate accounts for
    water and wastewater operations. Technical assistance programs on USAG maintenance
    improvement and development of hydraulic modeling were successfully completed. The Project
    also supported strengthening of the technical and administrative skills of USAG staff through
    various training programs, including post graduate and master degree programs, study tours, and
    on site training of operators and engineering, financial and accounting staff.

    The project contributed to the financial strengthening of Housing and Communal Services
    Authority (OSNAAG) through introduction of the specifically designed computerized billing
    system in its Headquarters and subordinating units (Kontors).

    The project was also beneficial for officials in Government ministries and especially for the MUB
    in acquisition of experience in project management and procurement under the Bank's procedures,
    which will certainly ensure benefits in implementing new projects in the future. This experience of
    the Municipality will provide smooth implementation of future projects to be financed by the
    World Bank and other international institutions, including the Second Ulaanbaatar Services
    Improvement Project.

2.4 Poverty Alleviation and Social Improvements
    The objectives of the project were aimed to social improvements and poverty alleviation in
    Ulaanbaatar city. Construction of the water supply systems and development of urban services and
    infrastructure in ger areas of Ulaanbaatar city significantly contributed to improved living
    conditions for poor segment of population and over 160,000 people are now benefiting from the
    project.

    The project created jobs in newly constructed bathhouses and water kiosks, and plays important
    role in protection of human lives and property from storm water. Project works supported
    improved hygiene and sanitation, thus contributed to fall of rate of infectious diseases in ger areas.
    Roads, footpath and bridges constructed under the project have improved environment and access
    to kiosk, schools and other public facilities, and made easier labor of elders, women and children in
    fetching water, wood and coal. All project activities have been highly supported and appreciated
    by ger area community.

3.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
3.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
    This is the first IDA urban project in Mongolia consisting of considerable volume of civil works.
    At the stage of Project preparation the local climate features (such as long, harsh winters) were not
    properly considered. The total project implementation period was estimated to be 4.8 years,
    however only 28 months or 2.3 years were effectively available for execution of civil works. Some
    local construction norms and rules were also not fully considered.

    During project preparation in 1995-1996, facilities to be built under the Project were planned and
    designed for location on areas free of settlement and therefore resettlement issue was not
    considered applicable for the Project. However, since 1998 people from countryside migrated into
    Ulaanbaatar and had started building houses and commercial facilities with fences occupying the
    Project designated lands illegally or with permission. As the Project implementation proceeded, the
    issue of resettlement became the Project's most critical and problematical issue. It caused delays
    in proceeding with civil works and had almost suspended progress of the Project. A considerable


                                                 - 39 -

    period of time was required to resolve resettlement cost and compensation issues, to establish a
    legal environment. and to modify designs and technical solution in order to reduce number of
    affected people.

3.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

    Fulfillment of credit effectiveness conditions one year after the Credit was approved by the Board
    of Directors of the Bank in 1997, resulted in late start-up of the Project. The main reasons for
    such delay were the frequent changes of Mongolian Government and insufficient experience by the
    Government in implementing World Bank financed projects.

    Although several tariff increases were introduced during the Project period, these adjustments have
    not yet brought tariffs to the level necessary to generate sufficient revenues to meet operating costs
    and the greater of depreciation or debt services. This is a vulnerable issue related to the livelihood
    of citizens.

    Delays in award of contracts sometimes were caused by late establishment of tender committees
    and bid evaluation groups and by lack of knowledge by these groups of World Bank procurement
    procedures. Sometimes disagreement between the Project Steering committee, Tender committee,
    and IDA over contract award decisions resulted in delays in starting the work.

3.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
    Progress of the project was behind the schedule until 2000 mainly due to the lack of experience in
    project management, implementation, procurement, disbursement and reporting under the World
    Bank procedures.

    Delays in providing counterpart funding equivalent to 10 percent of cost of civil work contracts
    were caused by difficulties of the municipal finance.

3.4 Costs and Financing
    Total project cost is US$ 21.7 million, which is about 91.6 percent of the project cost estimated at
    appraisal. Increase of costs for procurement of goods occurred due to (a) underestimated unit
    rates; (b) delays in award of contracts; (c) adding number of new contracts that were omitted
    during project design; and (d) increase in length of piping and in quantities of equipment to be used
    for construction of water supply facilities, as result of unexpected population growth.

    Delays in project implementation and lack of adequate skills by implementing agencies resulted in
    the need to extend technical assistance and thus increased cost of this component.

    The Development Credit Agreement was amended to provide for reallocation of credit and grant
    proceeds. The reallocation was made on the basis of review of the procurement activities under the
    Project during first few years of implementation. The original and revised allocations compared
    with the actual disbursement are shown in table below.




                                                 - 40 -

     Category                                         Original AllocationRevised Allocation Disbursed

     IDA Credit                                                              (in SDR `000)
(1)  Civil Works                                      6000                   3060              2562
(2)  Goods, Equipment                                 2600                   7240              7305
(3)  Consultants' services and training
         (a)   for Part D.1 of the Project            940                    1175              1338
     (b) for Part D.4 of the Project                  500                    610               604
(4)  Refunding     of   Project   Preparation   Fund150                      51.2              -
     Advance
(5)  PMU Operating Costs                              60                     164               136
(6)  Unallocated                                      2050                   -                 -
     Other                                            -                      -                 1.9
     IDA Credit Total                                 12300                  12300             11947
              Undisbursed                                                                      359.91
     AusAID Grant                                     (AS$ `000)
(1)  Consultant's Services                            463                    1088              986.9
(2)  Goods                                            1769                   950               1125.6
(3)  Works                                            3893                   4087              3555.7
     Other                                                                                     11.1
     Total AusAID Grant                               6125                   6125              5679.3
     Undisbursed                                                                               445.7

Rationale for Sustainability Rating

4.    Sustainability
4.1   Rationale for Sustainability Rating
      Activities of the project for improvement of water supply and infrastructure in number of ger
      areas, water wastage reduction program and institutional and financial strengthening have been
      highly appreciated by citizens of capital city and have produced justification of the necessity to
      continue these works in the future.

      It is important to note that based on the results of this project, the Government of Mongolia has
      initiated a Second Urban Services Improvement Project, and through support of the application and
      arrangement financing of Project preparation by the Bank, a Credit for the second project was
      approved by the Bank Executive Directors in April 2004.

4.2   Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
      Equipment supplied and facilities constructed under the project were commissioned and handed
      over to the associated beneficiaries. These facilities and equipment operate reliably. Minor
      failures at early stages of water supply system operation were resolved (remedied) in time jointly
      by relevant staff of Project Management Unit, Contractor and the beneficiary agency. Assistances
      to the beneficiary agency for strengthening of its technical and financial capability have provided
      grounds for regular and reliable operation of project activities.




                                                   - 41 -

5.   BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1  Bank
     The Bank's performance contributed to the successful completion of the project. Project progress
     and recommendations on definite steps to overcome difficulties were adequately reported in the
     Missions' Aide-Memoires, and this brought the Project from being identified as a "problem
     project" to the one with the "highly satisfactory" performance rating among projects implemented
     by the World Bank in Mongolia.

     Overall, the Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

5.2  Borrower
     Throughout the project implementation, the central and local governments have been bearing an
     obligation and been providing support in project execution issues. The Project Steering
     Committee, comprises of representatives from various related ministries and municipal agencies,
     had been administrating and coordinating all phases of project implementation and been resolving
     its critical issues.

     The Government fulfilled all Credit covenants except the one to bring tariffs to the level necessary
     for USAG to generate sufficient revenues to meet operating costs and the greater of depreciation or
     debt services. The effects of tariff increases on low-income families were not fully appreciated
     during preparation of the project. Therefore the Government could not implement timely increases
     in water supply and wastewater tariffs, which affected financial condition of USAG.

     The Borrower's performance rated as satisfactory.

6.   LESSONS LEARNED
     The Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project has been a valuable experience for all the agencies
     involved. Lessons were learned in respect of physical implementation and project management:

    · Significant capacity building in Bank procurement, contract and project management and
         financial issues have been achieved.
    · The North American Standards in designing of first water supply systems caused significant
         time and efforts to convert these to worldwide used ISO standards.
    · Incomplete design during the preparation stages resulted in a large number of contracts,
         complicating procurement and administration.
    · Natural and local construction features were not adequately considered at appraisal and resulted
         in the necessity to extend the credit closing date.
    · Although resettlement under the project was assessed as successfully implemented, this issue
         caused problems and significant delays in project progress. With ratification of Law on Land
         Privatization of Mongolia, and further growth of ger area population, resettlement under the
         Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project might be more complicated. Therefore, a
         detailed program on protection of project construction sites should be developed and
         implemented prior to start-up of physical implementation.
    · UBSIP procurement became quite complex as result of number of factors, including IDA prior
         review of all aspects of procurement from design, bidding document and to contract awards, a
         large number of small packages, and the ratification and implementation of Pubic Procurement
         Law in Mongolia from 2001, which introduced high level involvement of the Government in
         issues on even small valued contract awards.



                                                   - 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

