The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6343
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 768-YDR)
July 18, 1986
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
TO: Mr. Ivan Radan, Chief Printing Section                       DATE:  July 11, 1986
FROM:  Graham Donaldson, Divisio  v f , OEDD1
SUBJECT: Printing of PCR: PDRY Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 768-YDR)
OED accepts full responsibility for the quality of the PCR.
There are no originals because this was prepared by the
Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                       British/US System
1 millimeter (mm)                   =                 0.0394 inch
1 meter (mn)                                          3.2808 foot
1 kilometer (km)                                      0.6214 mile
1 square kilometer (kM2)            -                 0.3861 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                                        2.4711 acre
1 cubic meter (n3 )                                  35.3147 cubic foot
1 million cubic meter (Mm3)         =               810.7000 acre foot
1 kilogram (kg)                                       2.2046 pound
1 metric ton (ton)                                2,204.6000 pound
i liter per second (1/sec)          =                 0.0353 cubic foot per second
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD   - Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
DTDB    - Delta Tuban Development Board
MAAR    - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reforms
MRS     - Machinery Renting Station
NBY     - National Bank of Yemen
PDRY    - People's Democratic Republic cf Yemen
PWC     - Public Water Corporation



FOR oUiAL UN ONLY
T11* WORLD SANK
Was.on.. rC. 3033
O&e d Oci.t4v.Gwwei
OPmEmmM IVulsa*tm
July 18, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Credit 768-YDR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: People's Democratic Republic of Yemen Wadi
Tuban Agricultural D'velopment Project (Credit 768-YDR)" prepared for the
Government by the FAO-assigned Project Manager, with an overview memorandum
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project perfornance auditing, further
evaluation of this project by t,e Operations Evaluation Department has
not been made.
Attachment
This docuiment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



no CIIma W ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC UPUILIC OF YtEM
(CREDIT 768-IDI)
TABLE OF CONTINTS
Page No.
Preface eog...... * see ............... I.. ..................... ..        £
Basic Data Sheet ............. ......,,                                    it
Evaluation Suomary  ....         ............. ..                          iv
IDA Overview of the Government of PDRY ...........................    vI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Is BACKGROUND
Wadi Tuban Delta                                                     1
Country's Background ...........I                                    1
Agricultural Sector                                                  I
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Significant Post-Appraisal Changes                                   3
Retrospective Analysis                                               5
Targets and Goals  ....... ..                 . . e,                 6
Complementary Actions                                                6
Approval and Credited Agreements                                     7
The Project Location and Area, Objectives e....oe.ee.cc..            8
Project Deaign                                                       9
Organisational Framework                                            10
Cost Estimates                                                      11
Benefit                    .g     gg e e           ...e    12
III. IMPLENENTATION
Project's Start and Technical Assistance A-reement with FAOe.        12
Technical Assistance and Training            .ege.....e              13
Comments                                                             14
Procurement                                                          15
Fertilizers and Chenicals                                            17
Agricultural Extension and Training ....e19
Civil Works (Water Supply aad Feeder Roads)                          23
Water Management Study          .g*.. o. , .  ,          ,    e      24
Study on Agricultural Price, Taxation and Subsidy
Policy System  ......c25
Satellite Study ...                                                  26
Irrigation Improvement Works cffigfigoe..eoeooocggoogocoeogoo        28
Ginnery      ...             .       .      .      .     oc.         28
Revisions                                       .eo.oc               29
Implementation Schedule                                              29
Works Completed by Original Target Date                              30
Reporting                                            ..........      31
Project Costs  ..........                                           31
Financial Sources                                                    32
Performance of Consultants, Suppliers and Contractors                33
This document has a  ftuited ditibung ndW My be  d by cipbnts only in the Peo
of tei ofci duIs Its ontents MY not otemis be dicied without Wold Sank ahoriuon



PVae No.
IV. AGRICULTULAL DIPACT
Tields *O@eoeee.ee.e...oooo................................             34
Cirog       Ara ^o ^ ....................................................  35
Produbction                    ............ .. ........ ....... ...     36
Valu  of Production                      .......................        37
V.   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
VI, INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT AGRICULTURAL
um  lIOU 8LRVICE



PEOPLE DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF YEMB
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ptojct Comuletioe Report
Prefece
Attached is a Project Completion Report (PCR) together with an IDA
overview on the Vadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project in the PDRY for
which Cred.it 768-YDR was approved in February 1978 in the sum of US$5.2 mil-
lion and closed, fully disbursed, in June 1984.
This PC& was prepared for the Government by the FAO-assigned Project
Manager.  Political events  in PDRY prevented IDA from following up on the
Govermnent's  preparation of  the PCR.  While  the  PCR  is comprehensive and
detailed, it does not fully reflect the rationale for changes in design of
some project coq4nents which were made during implementation.  Also  it is
relatively weak on the analysis of economic performance, impact on farmers'
incomes, etc.  The overview has been prepared by EMENA Project  Staff,  to
discuss various matters not fully covered in the PCR, as well as to record
IDA's own observations on project implementation and its ir..pact.
This overview compares actual developments with appraisal estimates
and highlights the principal achievements, issues and lessons learned.
Following a review of the PCR by OED staff, it was decided not to
audit the project and the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comment on
April 30, 1986. No comments have been received.



- is -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DENDC1ATIC REPUBLIC Of YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(Credit 768-ThR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Item                         Appraisal               Actual or
Expectation          Current Estimate
Total Project Costs (US$ million)           12.3                     15.7
Overrun (2)                                  4.0                        28
Credit Amount (US$ aillion)                  5.2                       5.2
Disbursed (US$ million)                      5.2                       5.2
Cancelled
Repaid as of 12/31/85                                                  -
Outstanding                                  -                         5.2
Date Physical Components Completed         6/30/83                    12/86
Proportion Completed by 1984 (Z)             -                           45
Tine Overrun (I)                             -                          115
Economic Rate of Return (X)                 27                           11
Financial Performance                                             Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                                         MDdest
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual or
Item                        Original Plan      Revisions    Esttmated Actual
First Mention in Files
or Timetable                                                     10/10/74
Government's Application                                         04/26/76
Negotiations                   12/15/77                          12/15/77
Board Approval                 02/14/78                          02/14/78
Credit Agreement Date          03/22/78                          03/22/78
Effectiveness Date             07/20/78            2             04/25/79
Closing Date                   06/30/83            2             06/30/85
Borrower                    Government of PDRY
Executing Agency            Minlstry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
Fiscal Year of Borrower    January 1 - December 31
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSKENTS
FY   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983   1984    1985
Estimated                  1.6      3.4   4.2    5.2      5.2     5.2      5.2
Actual                     0.1      1.0   1.6    2.5      3.3     4.4      5.2
Estimated/Actual (%)         6       29    38     48       64      85      100



- tit -
MSSlION ImA
tlonth/  No. of Days  No. of   Man days                     ;rf.o _s  bport
It_.             jeer  1i  Field    Persos  in Field  Sncialutios! 1
Appraisal         04/77       20            3        60          AIz/0                      25/1/78
Supervision 1      12/7t       4           2          8          A/K              2/1       1/11/79
Supervision II    11/79       10           3         30          A/K/Sc           3/1       1/18/80
Supervision III   04/80        5           2         10          A/K              2/2       3/16/80
Supervision 1W    11/80        4           2          8          A/c              2/1      12/30/80
Supervision V     05/81        7           3         21          A/K/Bc           2/2      07/23/81
Supervision VI    12/81        7           2         14          A/K              2/1      01/15/82
Supervision VII   05/82        2           2          4          A/I              2/1      06/18/82
Supervision VIII 03/83        12           1         12          E                2/2      04/20/83
Supervision IX    10/83        5            1         5          E                2/2      12/09/83
Supervision X      9/84       14           2         28          A/E              2/1      10/19/84
Total                                               200
CDUWER EXOHANGE RATE
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                   Yemenini Dinar YD)
Appraisal Year (1977)                             US$1 - YD 2.90
Comletion Year (1985)                             US$1 - YD 2.90
1/ A-Agronomist, E-Engineer, Ec-Economist.



- Iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION RUPORT
PEOPLES DEOCRATIC REPUBLIC 0F YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(Credit 768-YDR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Project, which was the second IDA-supported agricultural
development project in PDRY, sought broadly to inc-ease cropping intensity
and yields.  Total costs of the four year project were estimated at appraisal
at US$12.3 million of which US$5.2 million (422) was financed by IDA, US$6.1
million by the Arab Fund for Economic -nd Social Development and some US$1.0
million equivalent by Government.  In the event, there was a 282 overrun In
project costs which was met from Government scarces (PCR, paras. 2.17, 2.18,
3.39).
Objectives
Agricultural production was to be increased through irrigation
improvement, incremental inputs, rural water supply, feeder roads and studies
related to water resources and agricultural po lcy. A modest training
program for extension staff and engineering staff was also financed.
Implementation (PCR, Section III)
There was substantial slippage in implementation due to:
- delayed effectiveness
- staff shortages
- discontinuity of expatriate staff
- labor scarcity
- engineering redesign
- shortage of local funds
- diversion of Government resources
Tlhe feeder road component had to be scaled down in order to provide funds for
carrying out repairs to flood damaged Infrastructure in the project area in
1982. For implementation convenience, the irrigation system, originally
planned to be of buried pipes, was changed to open lined canals.



Results
The impact of the project during the impleme3tation period
(1978-85) was rather modest because of: () floods In 1982 followed by three
drought years; (ii) temporarily reduced soil fertility; (lll) farmers'
reluctance to adopt long furrows and large basins; and (iv) low usage of
fertilizers. Consequently, crop yields remained very much below appraisal
estimates.
There was a considerable increase in cropped arets, though not all
of this was attributable to the project. The rate of adoption of improved
irrigation techniques was below expectations, mainly because the extension
effort was generally inadequate and insufficiently sustained. The target set
for the rural water supply was fully met. The Government PCR re-estimated
the project's ERR at 11-12%, compared to 272 at appraisal. The PCR provides
little background for such estimate and the estimate may be optimistic
because of assumptions of area expans-on and yield improvement (Overview,
para. 28).
In accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, Government
reduced, in stages, the subsidy on agricultural machinery from about 60X in
1978 to 202 in 1985.
Sustainability
Sustainability of crop production increases is questionable. the
major contributing factor is lack of maintenance of irrigation developments.
Government hopefully will address this.
Findings and Lessons (Overview, para. 45; PCR, para. 7.01)
Financing major works by Force Account should be
avoided in favor of ICB.
Effective project management should be in place before
effectiveness.
M and E capabiliLies were weak; they need to be
strengthened in any similar future projects by
increased technical assistance.
Agricultural support institutions need more
strengthening at the national level.
Rigidities in centrally-planned economies need clearer
identification at appraisal and more effective address
at negotiation.
Government needs to be more closely involved in
project design and appraisal.



- VI -
PIOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RzrUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPbENT PROJECT
(Cr*&t 768 - YDR)
IDA Overiew of the Govrment of PDRY's
Prolet Comnletio Report
1.       This is the second IDA-supported agricultural development project in
PDRY.  Its implementation, which was triginally scheduled over a four year
period, was in fact accomplished in atout seven years due to delays in a co-
financing agreement, shortage of staff, changes in design of infrastructure
and shortage of labor and funds. There vas an overrun of 281 in the project
cost.
2.       The project provided funds for irrigation improvement,  incremental
inputs, rural water supply, feeder roads and studies related to water resources
and agricultural policy.  A modest training program for extension staff and
engineering staff wyas also sponsored under the project.
3.       During implementation substantial changes in project scopti and design
were made. The feeder road component had to be scaled down in order to provide
funds for carrying out repairs to flood damaged infrastructure in the project
area in 1982. For implementation convenionce, the irrigation system, originally
planned to be of buried pipes, was changed to open lined canals. The target
set for the rural water supply was fully met.
4.       The rate of adoption of improved irrigation  techniques  was  below
expectations, mainly because the extension effort was generally inadequate and
insufficiently sustained.
5.       The increase in cost of the project due to rising costs over an
extended implementation period was fully met by Government; as a result,
Goveruwent's contribution towards the overall project coat-, originally esti-
mated at 81 rose to nearly 36S.
6.       The  agricultural  impact  of  the  project  during the implementation
period (1978-'85) was rather modest because of: (ij floods in 1982 followed by
three drought years; (ii) temporarily reduced soil fertility (para 26); (iii)
farmers' reluctance to adopt long furrows and large basins; and (iv) low usage
of fertilizers. Consequently, crop yields remained very much below appraisal
estimates.



- vii -
7.       There has been a considerable Increase in cropped ar*as,  though not
all of this can be attributed to the project. A large shift from non fodder
crops to fodders took place, reflecting the fact that prices of fodder are
free, whdreas those of other crops are generally fixed by Government and often
set at unremunerative levels.
8.       The Govermnent PCR estimates, on the basis of new production projec-
tions, the project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at 11-122, compared to 272
at appraisal. The PCR provides little background for such estimate and the
estimate may still be overly optimistic because of unrealistic assumptions of
area expansion and yield improvement.
9.       In  &ccordance  with  the  Development  Credit  Agreement,  Government
reduced, in stages, the subsidy on agricultural machinery from about 60S in
1978 to 202 in 1985.  Because of the shift towards untaxed fodder production,
and a stagnation in output of other crops, tax receipts ;rom the project area
are likely to have fallen.
10.      IDA's performance during supervision is considered by Government to
have been useful and constructive, especially regarding suggestions to modify
the scope of the project, to change the irrigation design and to improve pro-
ject  execution  (work  contracts).   IDA was  somewhat  overly optimistic  in
appraisal estimates of project implementation time and production impact.
11.      Main  lessons  learned  during  project  implementation  include  tLe
following: (i) execution of major works by force account should be avoided and
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) be encouraged; (ii) the scheduling of
consultants' manpower should not be rigid but flexible on an as-needed basis;
(Mii) an effective project management team should be in place before initiation
of project implementation; (iv) M&E capabilities of governmental agencies
should be reviewed before assigning this responsibility to them and, if
needed, technical assistance should be provided; (v) O&M and post-project
activities to ensure project sustainability should be included in the project
design;   (iv) institutions  for  agricultural  support  services  should  be
strengthened at the national level; (vii) rigidities inherent in centrally
planned economies should be identified at appraisal and addressed at negotia-
tions; and (viii) active participation by the Governrient should be sought in
finelizing the project design, at least by appraisal time, to ensure that
local conditions and availability of resources have been fully taken into
account.
ProLect as s
12.      The primary objective of the projec'. was to increase both the crop-
ping intensity in the project groundwater area as well as yields in both
groundwater and spate areas; the means were to include construction of a
buried pipe distribution system and land levelling on about 1,800 ha, as well
as financing the incremental fertilizer/plant protection requirements for
about 8,500 ha.  Additional objectives were: (i) the construction of feeder
roads;  and  (ii)  the  provision  of rural  water  supply.   The  project  also
included a water management study, as well as one on prices, subsidies and
taxation policies in the sector.



- viii -
Pro]ect IzDbautatioa
13.      The project for which the IDA rredit was signed on March 22, 1978,
was to be implemented in about four years and hence the project completion
date was set at June 30, 1982. The credit which was to become effective on
July  20,  1978,  was actually declared  effective  on April  25,  1979.  The
physical completion of the project was completed substantially in December
1985, three years behind schedule. The credit closing date had therefore to
be extended twice, from June 30, 1983 to June 30, 1985.
14.      This substantial slippage of project implementation relative to the
original appraisal schedule is attributed mainly to the following causes:
(a)   Delay in declaring the credit effective.
(b)   Shortage of qualified staff and lack of  continuity  of  expatriate
staff.
(c)   Changes in engineering design.
(d)   Shortage of local labor.
(e)   Delay in arranging local funds in excess of the appraisal estimate.
15.      Unfortunately, the PCR does not mention that the Government of PDRY
was forced to divert a large volume of its resources to carry out rehabili-
tation and reconstruction work in the aftermath of the unprecedented floods
which occurred in March 1982 in PDRY in general, and in and around the project
area in particular. Project manpower and machinery were required to carry out
flood repairs and this gave a setback to the project's implementation schedule.
Funds from the project amounting to US$240,000 from Category 1 (Agricultural
Equipment and Machinery) and US$100,000 (para 21) from Category 4 (feeder
roads and water supply) were also allocated for the imediately needed
rehabilitation work in the project area.
16.      The declaration of effectiveness of the credit was delayed by about 9
months as a result of delays in signing the co-financing agreement with the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD). Under this agreement
AFESD was to finance US$6.1 million or nearly 50X of the project cost,
including that of Lhe irrigation component.  In the event, the agreement with
AFESD was sined in February 1980.
17.      The implementation of the project reneived a further set-back due to
the lazk of continuity of the expatriate staff assigned by FAO. The appoint-
mnt of a regular project manager was made only in July 1981, i.e. more than 2
years after the credit had been declared effective. In the intervening period,
various specialist expatriate staff acted as project manager, but generally
failed to establish the necessary leadership within the project, or the
required coordination with other agencies.  Lack of suitable housing in the
project area in particular and difficult living/working conditions in general
made it difficult to attract and retain high caliber national and expatriate
staff.
18.      At appraisal, the irrigation distribution system was planned to be a
buried pipe one which was changed in December 1979 to an open lined canal
system, because of the inability of PWC to provide assistance in the pipeline
design and construction due to its involvement in domestic water supply
schemes. Also, by using locally produced materials, the project was able to
carry out open canal construction better than the more sophisticated and



- ix -
efficient buried pipelines.  The subsequent change in design contributed  to
delay in overall project implementation.
19.      A general shortage of labor developed in the project area, as it did
in the entire PDRY; an a consequence, wages nearly trebled.  This adversely
affected the execution of civil works and on-far. development. These factors
not only caused delays in mobilization of the work force but also raised the
cost of all project components which were labor intensive.
20.      The increase in the cost of implementing the project resulting from
inflation during the extended implementation period, as well as from the high
labor wage rates, put a heavy strain on Government's financial resources. The
local cost component, which at appraisal was proposed to be financed by Govern-
mnt, was originally only US$1.0 million or 8% of project costs.  Because of
the cost overrun, the Government, towards completion of the project, had to
provide about US$4.5 million or 36% of the total project cost from its own
resources. These unplanned allocations which the Government thus had to make
for the project took more time for processing and hence added further to the
delay in project implementation.
21.      The  accomplishment  of  the  project  compared  to  the goals  set  at
appraisal for the implementation of civil works are as follows:
Appraisal           Actual
1.  Construction of feeder roads (km)               22                  10
2.  Water supply (population served)            6,000                7,000
3.  irrigation improvement (ha) 1/               1,755               1,500
22.      The construction of feeder roads had Li be scaled down considerably.
In view of the importance of the villages to be served, the Government of PDRY
wanted to construct black-top (bituminous) roads instead of the remaining 12km
of cobbled roads provided for under the project.  The construction of such
roads was included in the Highway Authority's national program for road con-
struction. The funds thus saved from the feeder roads component were diverted
to carry out urgently needed repairs to the irrigation infrastructure 4n the
project areas to make up for the damage caused by floods of March 1982
(para 15).
1/ Expected to be completed by end 1986.



23.      Irrigation  improvement works,  financed by AFESD come_nced only in
1982, about 2 years behind schedule, due to delays in credit effectiveness
(para 15) and appointment of the full complement of project experts. There-
after, beqause of inefficient construction procedures adopted initially, pro-
gress slipped further by another 2 years.  Towards the end of the project,
1984/85, the project management succeeded in awarding labor contracts for the
construction of on-farm works  as  reco_mended earlier by IDA.  Since then
progress  accelerated markedly.  The  irrigation works  are  expected  to  be
completed by the end of 1986.
Production
24.      The project's primary production objective was to increase produc-
tivity of existing crops, mainly through improved irrigation, and to a lesser
extent through improved mechanization, fertilizer use and pest control, all in
conjunction with a strengthened extension service.
25.      The agricultural  impact  of  the project  during  the  implementation
period (1978-'85) was rather insignificant because of: (i) temporarily reduced
soil fertility following land levelling 1/; (ii) floods in 1982 followed by
three drought years; (iii) reluctance of farmers to adopt long furrows and
large basin irrigation; and (iv) low usage of fertilizers. The reluctance of
most farmers to adopt the new irrigation techniques is, in all probability,
a temporary problem; once the extension service is strengthened, as is
presently being done 2/, the rate of adoption can be expected to accelerate.
The same paucity of extension services is likely to have been an important
factor why crop yields did not increase more than they did.  Similarly, the
lack of any meaningful collaboration between the project extension service and
the agricultural research station at El Kod greatly constrained the diffusion
of new production techniques and fertilizer use.
Yields. The SAR base yields, as well as the projected and actual yield levels
are tabulated below:
Selected Crop Yields Projected and Actual
(tons/ha) 3/
Appraisal       Actual         PCR
Without Proiect    With Prolect   (1978-'84)   Proiection
Tomatoes                    12.0               27.0          9.8           15.0
Vegetables                  12.0               27.0          6.2           15.0
Melon/Watermelon            15.0               27.0           7.3          15.0
Forage                      35.0               80.0         12.3           20.0
Maise                        1.5                3.5           1.4           1.5
1/ Actual earth moving needed was about twice as much as originally anti-
cipated.
2/ Under the recently approved Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Cr. 1557-YDR).
3/ On state farm.



- xi -
26.      From  the above, it is evident that the appraisal yield projections,
i.e. *ore than doubling of the yields of all main crops, were overly
optimistic.  Also, the appraisal  "without-project" data are' likely  to have
been erroneous when compared with actual 1978-'84 yields. The PCR projections
are expected to be attaind about 7 years after project completion, that is by
the time the original soil fertility, reduced by land levelling, is expected
to be restored.
CMed arm
27.      There has been a considerable increase in cropped area (about 352),
though not all of this can be attributed to the project.  Expectations  are
that by the time the project is fully on stream, the cropped area would have
been increased by about 402.  The actual areas planted to such high value
crops as fruits and vegetables remained substantially below appraisal
estimates, those of fodder (comprising nearly 752 of the total cropped area)
exceeded  the  appraisal  estimate.  These area allocations  to crops  reflect
various key elements of PDRY agrarian policy, namely crop area quotas for
state farms and cooperatives, strict control over producer and consumer prices
of most agricultural commodities though not of fodder, and centralized state
marketing of a large part of fruit and vegetable output.
Overal Economics
28.      During  the  period  1977/78-1983/84,  agricultural  production  in  the
Wadi  Tuban area  was  subject  tr  very  large  variations.   In  the  1981/82
agricultural year, because of abnormally large floods on which irrigation
depended, the cropped area was nearly twice that of the preceding year and the
value of output about 40% higher.  Both 1982/83 and  1983/4 were years of
drought; the average value of crop production for each of these two years was
less than that for the first year of the project.  Such series makes it very
hazardous to re-estimate the project's rate of return.  Government's draft PCR
attempts to make a new estimate of the ERR, based on the following
assumptions: (i) over a period of about 10 years yields would increase to
about 802 of those presently obtained in the local research station; and (ii)
the  cropped  area  would  have  expanded  by  about  401.   Based  on  these
assumptions, the draft PCR estimate of the ERR is 11-12S 1/, excluding all
investment items not directly productive, such as studies and the rural water
supply. As the draft PCR does not make explicit the technology packages for
the various crops, nor its costs,  it iv r,ot possible  to verify the yield
assumptions, though these appear overly optimistic.  As the area will remain
dependent, to a considerable extent, on highly variable spate flows, the area
expansion assumption may also be well on the high side. Finally, as in PDRY
the crop mix is largely determined by instructions from the authori:ies, which
do not necessarily reflect relative profitability, any projection of a future
crop mix must be conjectural in a high degree.
Subsides
29.      At the  time of appraisal,  most cash  inputs  into agriculture were
heavily subsidized; machinery rental rates (nearly 502), irrigation equipment
and fertilizers (varying rates).
1/ Appraisal estimate is 27S.
I S45c



- xii -
30.      The Development Credit Agreement stipulated that no fertiliser and
plant protection materials supplied to project beneficiaries were to be
subsidized.   Also,  it was agreed that the Machinery Renting Station  (MRS)
would increase its rental and maintenance rates to levels corresponding to the
actual operation and mintenance of agricultural equipment (tractors and
pumps).   In the event,  the MRS did increase tractor  renting  rates,  as  a
consequence of which the subsidy for these services fell from 602 to about
201. These rates not only cover 06M costs, but part of the capital cost as
well and hence go beyond the retiuirements of the Credit Agreement at this
stage. Furthermore, the Government is committed to recover from the state
farms over a period of twenty years from the completion of the project, the
full actual construction and installation costs, as well as 52 interest
thereon, of  irrigation facilities provided.  This should help Government to
partly defray costs of establishment of an O&M service in the project area.
The Government's PCR mentions that the charge for maintenance of pumps and
motors is still considerably subsidized; an estimate of its magnitude is not
available.   Fertilizers  and  plant  protection  chemicals  provided under the
project were sold at cost.  However, since cheaper, subsidized agro-chemicals
were available to project farmers from other sources, the off-take of these
materials supplied under the project fell far short of appraisal estimates.
Taxes
31.      During the course of the project, there was a 52 tax on the gross
value of vegetable proAnctieon, a 151 tax on that of most other crops (cotton,
cereals, etc.), while fodder productior. remaieed untaxed.  The SAR projected
more than doubling of tax receipts during the course of the project. However,
because of the general shift away from the taxed crops towards untaxed
fodders, total tax receipts must actually have declined in real terms.
32.      In the course of project  implementation  it was observed  that  the
system of levying a direct tax on marketed agricultural products and
collecting it through the cooperatives has various negative aspects: (i) in
that it is a tax on output, not on profit or gross margin, it tends to
discourage input use; (ii) it discriminates against farmers who produce goods
for sale through the official channels and encourages production of other
untaxed  crops,  e.g.  fodder,  which  may  not  be desirable from an economic
perspective; and (iii) tax collection is burdensome and adds to the disharmony
between cooperatives and their members.
Beeiciaries and Ilcomes
33.      The appraisal estimate of the project's principal beneficiaries was
about 36,000 persons (those in the production cooperatives), and average farm
incomes were expected to increase by about 501 in real terms during the course
of the project. At this stage, as no significant increase in value of output
can be attributed to the project (para 24), the above estimates can only be
revised once the project works, especially the irrigation components, start to
have an significant impact on production performance.



- xiii -
34.      At appraisal it vas estimated that of the total IDA credit of US$S.2
million, about US$1.9 million (36S) would be on-lent by the Nationa la  nk of
Temn  (NbY) as short-and medium-ters  loans to cooperatives, state farm  and
the WKS, in order to purchase equipmet and recurrent Inputs.  In the event,
farmers took up little of the project's non-subuidised fertilizer supplies as
subsidized ones were readily available and the total allocation for on-lending
was therefore reduced to US$1.6 million. Most of this was on-lent under an
agrement between the Ministry of Finance and the NBY. The NDY shoved consi-
derable reluctance to enter into a similar agreement with the MRS on account
of its doubtful creditworthiness; these problems were ultimately solved
through the intervention of the Ministry of Finance.
PedIOmAe of CO
35.      Under a Trust Fusid agreement,  No. UTFN/PDY/005/PDY,  FAO provided
expatriate experts (a Project Manager, an Irrigation Agronomist, an Extension
Specialist, a Farm Management Specialist and a Farm Machinery Expert) to
assist the Government in the implementation of the project.   Unfortunately,
the regular project manager could not be appointed before July 1981, more than
three  years  after  project  commencement.   The  subsequent  appointments  of
project   managers  were  satisfactory  and  helped  in  improving  project
implementation. Recruitment of the other experts was, however, largely in
line with  the original  implementation  schedule.  As  that schedule became
rapidly obsolete, the timing of arrival of experts should have been made
consistent with the revised implementation schedule.
36.      Consultants were engaged by Governmnt in 1980 to prepire the study
on agricultural prices, subsidies and taxes.  IDA assisted in the preparation
of the terms of reference for the study and reviewed the draft interim report
in 1982. At that occasioa, IDA expressed serious doubts regard!ng the quality
nd utility of the study as prepared and proposed ways to have it improved.
IDA reviewed thereafter the final report and considered the report to bq still
an inadequate basis to engage in a policy dialogue with Government. Instead,
IDA introduced some policy changes in a subsequent lending operation (Wadi
Iadramawt II Project) and started policy discussions on the basis of a sector
memorandum (1982/83).
Otlw Stouds
37.      Both the water management study, and the study on satellite analysis
for hydrogeological interpretation were successfully completed. A consultant
was also engaged by the Government with IDA assistance to propose a flood
control scheme of imediately-needed measures for Wadis Tuban and Beihan in
particular and other vadi# in general. The consultant's recommendations were
mostly accepted and are being imp'lemented progressively.



- xiv -
IDA  e n
38.      Nine supervision mission& lasting 4-12 days each in the field at an
average rate of about 2 per year vero laumched by IDA during imploeentation of
the project.  Two of those  issions were combined with appraisals of other
projects in the agriculture sector. Govern.ent feels that the field supervi-
sion by the msLsions was generally efficient, comprehensive and effective,
especially regarding suggestions about changing the scope of the projects,
modifying design elements and organising construction. IDA responded promptly
and effectively to the Government's request for assistance to carry out a
rehabilitation survey after the flood d,mages of 1982 and to prepare a flood
control plan. Governmnt is of the opinion 1/ that "the appraisal estimates
of yields for various crops in state farm and cooperatives both for "without
project" and "with project" situation were 70-80 percent higher than the
maximum yields which could be accomplished in the experimental plots of the
El-Kod Research Center". This point is, by and large, valid. It would appear
that IDA projected too rapid a rate of adoption of new production technology
considering: (i) the rigidities commonly associated with centrally planned
economies; and (ii) that no extension service had previously been working in
the area. Government also states 2/ that "spate improvement works in five of
the state fares (1,245 ha) were not identified and provided for in the
appraisal's cost estimates.  These works were necessary because those farm
required supplemental irrigation water from spate to meet crop water require-
ments".  The project evolved from a consulting firm's study of the area, and
was further defined  during two FAO/CP missions before appraisal took place.
The project scope was defined to improve the conveyance and distribution of
existing pumping units in the state farm which provide an assured supply of
water. The system could not be designed for combined use with spates, as this
would have  created  operational  problems.   Spate areas  had  to be  treated
separately and operated within the existing system as such.  In any case, the
Government's Directorate for Irrigation had ample opportunity to study the
engineering proposals and propose spate rehabilitation works. Too much blame
for this omission cannot therefore be attributed to IDA.
Govemnment's Performance
39.      Although  constraints  in  the  system  limit  the  choices  available,
Government agencies in general took a pragmatic view of IDA's suggestions on
project implementation and accepted these to the extent possible. Rigidities
inherent in PDRY agrarian policies (e.g. fixed prices, acreage controls,
centralized production planning) are to a considerable extent the cause of the
project's modest performance to date. There were some delays in compliance
by Government with various credit covenants, particularly relating to loc.t
staff and audit reports and on-lending by NIY to MRS.
1/ From Para 11.03 of the PCR.
2/ From Para 11.04 of the PCI.



- xv -
40.      The project was considerably delayed because of expatriate staffing
problems, especially regarding the project manager.  The shortage of local
staff on the project was due to the dearth of trained and experienced staff in
the country. During the course of the project, Government alleviated this
somewhat by recruiting such staff from other countries in the region.
41.      Governmnt was required to arrange local funds for project implementa-
tion, considerably in excess of those planned at appraisal, thus raising its
contribution from 8S to 362   These unforeseen requirements were eventually
met by Government, though inevitably involving delays in nkcing the necessary
budget allocations and thus, in turn, causing delays in project execution.
42.      Initially, project implementation was the responsibility of the Delta
Tuban Development Board (DTDB), the successor of the Lahej Agricultural
Development Board. Later, by amendment of che DCA made at the request of
Goveranent, the DTDB was replaced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform (MAAR) and a coordination committee was established to assist in pro-
ject implementation. This transition was effected smoothly; MAAR, however,
did not have sufficient staff to carry out vital tasks, particularly
monitoring and evaluation for which DTDB was originally responsible.
43.      MAAR has no regular irrigation operation and maintenance (O&M) unit,
at the national leveI or at project levels. The PCR contends that, if this
unsatisfactory state of affairs were to continue, the useful life of most
irrigation works established under the project would be six or seven years,
instead of a normAl life of 30 years. A proposal for an operation and main-
tenance unit for the project area is given as an annex to the PCR.  It would
appear, however, that the matter of O&M of irrigation schemes in PDRY is
better addressed at the national level.  However, at the project level, the
Goveronent should train the farm managers on O&M procedures laid down by the
project management and provide necessary funds for O&M out of taxation on the
state farms (para 30).
44.      In more general terms, due to shortage of local staff and resources,
the project has not helped much in the establishment of institutions to
sustain project benefits and provide agricultural support services on a
regular  basis.   The  need  for  creation  of  effective  institutions  at  the
national level was felt all along the project implementation stage. The O&M,
M6E and extension services should have been organized at the national level to
oversee and coordinate provision of such services in different projects in the
sector.
Lessos learned
45.      The major lessons which IDA learned during the implementation of this
second agricultural project in PDRY are as follows:
(a) due to shortage of local labor and weak local contracting
agencies, execution of major works by force account should have
been avoided. Instead, ICB should have been encouraged;
(b) the scheduling of consultant manpower should not have been rigid
as  planned  in  the original project design.   The timing should



- xvi -
have been reviewed and revised as project implementation
progressed.   The  appointment  of  consultants  (subject  matter
specialists) shou!d have been on an as-needed basis and therefore
should have been intermittent rather than continuous;
(c) All efforts should have been made to ensure establishment of an
effective project management team well in advance of commencing
project implementation activities;
(d) the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capabilities of the Govern-
ment's agencies should have been reviewed in detail before
assigning this vital  task to any one of  them.  Where  needed,
specific technical assistance should have been provided to ensure
effective M&E;
(e) the arrangements for O&M of infrastructure constructed under the
project should have been included in the project design and funds
for post-project activities should have been agreed upon with the
Government during negotiations;
(f) it is important that institutions which provide agricultural
support services (e.g. extension, O&M and credit) should have been
strengthened at the national level, as is being done now, in part,
under  the  Research   and   Extension   project,   so   that   the
project-provided services could have been sustained;
(g)  the rigidities inherent tn the centrally planned economies which
are likely to have an   iverse effect on project  implementation
should  have  been  ider ified  and  addressed  at  appraisal  and
negotiations; and
(h)  active participation by the* Government should have been sought in
finalizing the project design at appraisal to ensure that local
conditions and availability of resources had been properly taken
into account.



P5FIZ' Dm4:JA.CL.IC SM13.1iC; OF f - 0't
Ministry of Agricultur. and Aarian Refori
and
Food and Agriculture Cranization" of th1.
Unit4d Jat tous
d.ADI  33BAN  AGRICUL".';U;L  D-lMOR!    Xj.^Z;T
IDA Credit     -     768-ruR
Arab hnd Bef -       53/80
FAO ref        -     ITT/FDY/C05/PDY
, ;X~~J
A                                ADEN, Decenber 1985



?MCFUE'S =EIC.;tATIIC R.EF.ML: W *:7 r,l
''.II LZ' 0  DG*!0CW=T:c  i~'it: Z.S^: C
'.Ij~.Z! T  A; ?.:L-'tt:?AL D.V-C. c    :zT P CT
DRAFT COEFILELCMN R PCP.T
I.  BAC0.ITRCT  IM
'.dadi T.ban De.ta:
1.0  ':iadi T%bar. De.ta, Iccated in the Second Governorste, is fl.Jced
by 'Wadi Kaoir and its tribuitcr, 'ad4 Sagh;z.  These '.'adis dra±n
a catChment area of about 5,60C e2C  7C1 of wr.ich is the mounta-
neous resior. of Jemen irab .b.i:.  Soils in t:he nrcrthern parts
of the delta are silty (Ieposited 'Wy flood water ovser thG centuries)*
The southern part of delta has sand and _ravely a:vial deposits.
Generally soil type in state  sar=s is meadium.  In the swrface layers
it is low in nitrogen (0.0212), aedium in available phosphorus
(20.4 kg/ha) with a .-2! of 3.3, infiltrate rate of 1.a to 2.5 c,m/
3
hour and bul:; detsity of 1.2 gram/cm .  TA.e 3oil depth is about
10 meters. Climate is typically of arid zone, average rainfall
CO = to 150 mm, average temperitures 24GJ 43 ifinter (NoCvemNber to
:.rch) and 330C to 430C in su=mer (Axril to 0ctcer), witi. average
humidity 06f..
Country' s 3ackzrcu.nd:
c1.    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PMM) 'ras a poruition. of
2,055 million (CSO I9a3 estirate),  :hic  _.ncreazes ar an arr-nul
rate of 2.6i.  Tt has very few knowr. natural resources.  Zut of
its total area of 338,1CO 3n  (w hich is  mivided i.no 3   ;cvern-
orates) th.e arabli  land i3 or.lr _^ ,^CO 'ha.  A'c,xt 2c,OCC :h.a are
irrigated from wells, and 40,ZCC :  ?7C,VCC rha rely on unroeliable
seasonal floods (spate).
Arricultural Sector:
*   i.¢   Domestic ;;crk  Iorce is about 1+?G,OCC of .t.ich 2C0,^O (s5J) is
in agriculture.  :Harsh climate and scarnty rn limit thn    e ag"' a
potential.  .:e co';A.tr'- ^a5s to sr,nrd h:eraly z  i=orting       o  grails, abou
70,  of  t        O ,1    oils,     3        z e        o.  t s,ei dt-.



*.-  , the food .1-orts alone were about 4C  of ODP. EOwet,wl, qfG %th
Oo-.erOz.nt of 0DR! is ;&7in; prat *  hasis to
agricultural deveapmeont. Currently three major agricultural
development prc4ects (:.'adis Tub-a, Hadhrmlaut and Beihan)
costirg about ?SO 7C million are being inpleu*nted. Total
investment in the agricultural sector over the 1973-80 period
amounted to tjSO 230 millior. (35 of development budget), and
in the s.ecr.d five year plan 1cl-8' was a7bot :.S3  176 million.
1.0 Government policy i3 to operato a centrally pl.nned systep.=
Crops caler.der irA areas cf -ross to be ;anted are officially
predeter"4ned, and ;ricas of inputs and outputs are mostly
controlled.  Crops plans awe prepared centrally, discuased
and modified at local level and if necessary 3wbsequentiy
=ended in considera.tions of the various interests, both
.within ezd outaide the sector.
I;J Frolects in the Sector:
1.04  IDA has financed six projects in the ar4iculture and fisheries
sectors, three for fisheries  .e*veloI=ent ar.d tIese for agi-
cultural development.    iadi   ban Agricultural rDevelopment
Project 768 Yr;R for  '5% 5.2 millior., with U3S  6.1 millior.
co-financed by the Aria %f;nd for Economic and Social Develo-
ment); Wadi He.hramaut (CWHPI) (Cr.615-LM>R for US$ 7.C million);
and Wadi Beiha  (c:,.lJ45-'.rD  for US$ 8.C  _i.l on co-firanced
by IFAD. Also financed earlier were hydrogeological ar.d
feasibility studies of Wadi HadhrazaAt through .^nds included
in the credit for first Fi3±hrits Prcs,,:ct (Sr.37C-M-Ri a-ZC    L
credit advance of r,., 0.5 milllorn !- l5CC-Y-'.v).
II   Prolect id.er.tificaticn, Pret3ration snd irsra^isai:
2.01  Orizin:
Being close to the capital of the country, Ader.,   rltura1
development of 'Jadi  A'r.an was gi   ;ricrit to incr%ase ':e
production of tegstables and fr 4ts to  c   meet  .-.e rt-'ire-
ments cf second Goverr.crRte and partly for  caden.    ae Ps.oject



oriinated from I TAO/'t.P Project sut-cortracted s3740
to Ti.ACCU.ZL, Roer, on "Sail and Water Conseratior and
'Jtilization in the .Zadi Tuban Watershed ira."  Te Prodact
was planned with the assistance of FACO/Z3RD Cooperative
Pogroa (CP) mission in :May 1976.
FREPARATIOtJ:
2.02 ,nother CP =ission visited PDRY irn December 1976.   he Project
was prepared by this :ission. Ministry of Agriculture and
Ap arian Reform azd its Directorate of Planr.ing and the
Department of Irrigation and 'echaarical _,4in.*6rir.g, and
t .e Ministry of Planaing provided necessarr assistance, data
nd inforr.ation to the CP missior. for te* preyaration of the
Project.
AwDraisal:
2.33  An IDA Mission visited PMRY in Apri4May 1977 for the appraisl
of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project.
2.04  Significant Post A;,rRi3al Charaes:
(i)  In. the pro,eect appraisal irrigation water distribution
system was planned as "burried Pipe Systeom". The pipes
were not nanufactared locally. Prices of i=pcrted pite3
-ncreased intz.rratiornal'  .oe !r :..       Ity thor vire ^
startini imip1merstation of irnriaticn i=mcrovement werks
(February 1962). Moveov,r, since the ;ipe distribut:or.
nstwork was suz-ozed to be gravity l1ow system, it was
essential to coaztruct large res+r?rc=   :t .ithe: ;ci:w
and pipe lines jcinninf iels vC t.ose.  :.eSe CostS were
not included ii: the ippraisal costing.  For that reason
cpen lined canals system was adopted.
(ii) Another change was inclusion of  .zyro1*me*nt of spate
canals and related structures ir. fiv  of th.e state fer-s,
totallinr  1,225 ha.  !his work was eissntial o*bCase
"thnese state farms carnnot neet :.eir full water require-
ments from the pumped groundwater,  n-Ad h:^e to de-end on
20 to 3%  of suppiefert s3ate w3,r".



(1ii)    rrar.aforirg con.straction of 2'.5 kilometers of f..dar
roads from  the project, beCtoase the 3A  alocati$on
't7SO.I  i  I-o n for this wcrk ias n.ot adar.uate.  That
work was entr:sted by the G3ovre:rrrtat to the Public
Works Ntartmer.t.
(iv)    Construction Schedule had tc be revised because the
actual construction of irrigation  mtroaeer.t works
could not ccmmence before  ethruary, 1982 (originally
sch.duled October 1979). Conseq>or.ttly pro4ects compl.ticr.
taret had te be 3etback fror J0r.e l983 to fecw.ber 19316.
(v)     Ur.precederted heavy flocd (acocrt.r.e to som-e e3ti.=aCs
more than 200 years storm frooxe:nc:) came i.n '!arch 1962
in PMY.  Like many other '..adis of the country, delta
ZIban weS also ser±0u31y aff§cted.  Diversior weirs ar.d
caral intake structurex or. both Wadi Kabir and Wadi
Saghir, and some of the spate canals and bridges were
totally damaged.  At many locations Wdadis banks eroded
to the extent of 4C to 5C meters. Projects two of th.
statO farm. were adver3ely afTected. In :Hussaini fa ,
some of the fruit trees (mango) were uprooted because
of Wadi Saghir's bank erosion.  ir. Mor.asrah state farn
the head reach of main spate car.cl and its diversion
weir ard canal intakce structuro on .;'ad4 Saghir .were washed
out.  The nec-essary reconstrAction ind haa. repairs of
flood damage works were beyond the project's Scope of
-mrk.  These works were supposed to te imrlanented :r.dr
a setarati pro4 ct, but 'r.fortun.arely could r.ct be
carried out yet.  eiorst hit wAs te :or.asrah farm  which
could not receive any apate since March 19E2.  .4orasrach's
derender.cy to meet irrigatior. .water requiremen ts by saste
is about 35%.  However, ZA' re-allocated the zon&.' prcvid ad
for the constriction of feea;er roas-A (` :0 .; misr.. c
the repair of soam  of the flccd dwnsae worlxz (rrcc-="-
.er.t of zzavzor,s)



RetrgQ9mctive Analvis:
2.0%    The project was prepared expeditioisly and adequately detailed
except the spate inprovoemet and feeder road works were under-
5stimated.  No provi3ion was -ade ir. the loan agreements of
IDA and iJTSD for making up the coat overr:: due to delay in
starting construction and setting back proejct complotion by
a few years.  3ecause of the h n.clu3ion of spaty improvemet
works and about 3j years inf.ationary effects of delay i;
constructior, the project cost -as overrun by about U!S3.75
million.  But no additional funds were =ada availicle by m.;
or AFMD, although ZDA concurred in October l983 that tht
cost overrir. wan a ^bvlt       n -llior
2.06   Burried pipe water distribution systeM 3s provided in th2
appraisal was a superior technical solution in vi*w of its
high water sfficie::cy, optimal operatiornal stardards,
expeditious construction and minianal maintenance cost.
This necessitated a pipe manufacturing factory in the
country, which still is a necessitY for the future agri-
cilturkl development projects in the country.
2.07   Forecasts made in the project design were realistic.
About 20 to 2%  arable land was wasted in =aking in-
numerable bunds and ditches for C;e traditionrl basi.
method of irrigation (basins as Tsall as 1C M : 1C -.!
T$is land could be cultivated _ecause the -roject ha.d
reshapid-rand enlarged the fiel4s (0.5 ha to 2.0 ha).
Since land levelliar  'had _eer.      t therefore, ::ere
would be nrc troblem to irrigate  i.2e large fields.  T.arp
fields would also encourage farm mechani3ation.  -This alone
will help increase the cropping intensity by about 2C to
29%.  Other 15 to 20% increase cat be accomplished by
making water available to crop more area. Saving in water
was possible because seepage losses were eliminated by
lining Ahe canals; and better sater zira -4ert through:
gated control and distribut ion s:r:ct ues.  The Project
and its tiMing was an appropriate step in fsrthering the
plan of Agricultural Sector.



-6
Tuggets and Goels:
2.08   The main development goal was to ircrease the gross value of
annual agricultural production by 107?5, by ir.creasing cropping
intensity from 105 to 1450, use of additional ±nputs rnd  n;pror3d
qpicultural practices facilitated by construction of irrigatiot
iaprovement works. Anticipated productior. increases in tV.he state
farms were: Sorghum (forage) 127%; tomato ar.d vegetables 325k.;
melons 8C%; and forage loegmes 47?.  in the ccopaertives ar.ti-
cipated production i.ncreases were: Cotton 72?; Cereals 4C*;
melons 9; and sesame 75%. The target for having thes* increases
was at the full development of thie pyroject in 1.984, which wc.;U
be setback to 1987. Reiated institutions to  aeLp accomplish
this goal included: Agrlultural Zxtersion Servlces, Pt:clic
Corporation for Agricultural Service (ABC), Machines Rental
Station (MRS), State FYrms, Cooperatives,  -.ruits and Veretable
Marketing Cor;oration (MTMC).
2.09  Cther significant goal was to provide em-loyr.ent to the loc.al
workers about 200,CO0 days of ,dork annually tL:rinz the ccnstruction
period, and 326,000 days per anr.um on farms folloiirng co--letion
of the project. Also about 7000 families in 7 oooperatives of
the project -dere aimed to be benefitted by i±ncre3irg averrge
family income about 63S. ',adi Tuban Agricultural Develop0- =s..-t
Project was quite important ir. t.he sector. It involved
development of about one-r.inth of the ccuntry's total ara'oLe
land.  Its iaportance became more 3ignificant _;e  o it3
location and proximity to Jden, oapita. :  the  otry.
Com;lementaryr Actions:
2,10 The important action complementary to the ;rojscts  was Proper
Operation and .laintenance (0 1X %) of the completed work.s.  Ablso
importa&nt was continued and timely supply cf ferti1izers and
plant protection chemicals t.=r:ughout t-e life of th-he -roject,
and annual distribution of t}iese to far=era in tle ,r2jecC    5
in an  mournt equivs er.lt to at  eazt thhose ievels at    cl; ich   Z
inputs were a&plied in the last year of rroject iLmzlanentatior.
All agricultural mach-nery procured by zhe project wou1d bi



. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~7
maintained by OS. * P   sets are operated by state fams, but
maintzined by 1438. Irrigation dstribution system constructed
under the project on state farms would be operated and maintained
by state far-3.  Irrigation atructures in the spate irrigated
areas would be =aintain*d by M.hI (later changed to Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian eform (Hi).
Z2j,  A^vrcv.-l and Credited Agreeeonts:
For   imlentation and 'fioncing the project, negotiatiorn. took
place between the Gover=rnt and =A in *!arch, 197a, o:d  ith
the Co-financer AFD in February 19eO.  Development credit
agreement (DC^')  etween the Ministry of Planning ard IDA was
sianed on 22.3.1978 for ';S %5.2  million (IZA credit 768-YDR).
Credit ageement botweon the Miristry of Plsnnirg and J3D
was signed on 4.2.'980 for Kuwait Diners l,900,CCC ('.ZS, 6..
million), credit 1io.53/80. Gover=ent s  =cntinuaticr. fta rn
local fund of the project was 4gzeed to be o*ui*falent to
US%L.0 million.
2.19   Assurances given by the Goverrmert to IDA as conditions cf
effectiveness included the followirg:-
(a)  Appointment of Project Manager and his two counterparts.
(b)  Appointment of four other expatriate specialists assisted
by at least one qualified agricultural Ya eni Zraduat.
In addition to a counterpart, Zxtersion Specialist ass3stC4
by not less than 21 extension agents.
(c)  DTDB (MAAR) to arrange construction of feeder rcs -d
rural water supply schme tFrZh FW  .d P.IC. ^'so to
replace the ex*ing wells d±ese. erngin3s by electric m¶otcrs.
(d)  Additional requirements of fertilizers and Plant protactior
chemicals ir excess of those provided under the project tc
be procured and  distributed b- t.: 3cver-.--an.t ':hrcuc.; its
own resources.
(e)  .5 $1.9 : i.lion of the FroJec:. Fumdz to be. channealed :-.4  h
National Bsrn. of iemen for on-lar_ig as short-ter?  a
medium term loans.



a-8
V644 Pr*64.ect:
2.13  Locatior. and Area:   1"he proJect is located in the cutakirts ot
Lahoj, capital of Second Governorate, about 39 km north of A^.;e
(7isure 1).  It covers about 10,OCO ha :*ricle land of Delta  u.iban.
It includes 12 state farns (2,105 ha) and 7 coo-eratives (7,577 ha).
°ut only 10 state farms totalling 1,755 '-a wero devez;ped under th..
project and included: Wadi KThair (14C h&i); Shogirat (130 ha); Mu"cah'e
(425 h^.a); :onaarah (3C0 ha); Hussaini (2CC ha); Jarrad (70 ha);
Jawala (200 ha); Shocirat East (14o h.a); and Fi*ysh/V..4adi %Nbarn Firms
(100 ha).  In the original plan (appraisal) sixth sessi'on state
farm (240 ha) was included but later that .J^s dtferred becvaa of
salinity problem and substituted by Shogirat _ast and riyuah/'adi
Tuban farns.  Coperatives as contemtlated in the appra3ial -ere
3evenO but later thcac woro  erped   and rernamed as: 13th August
CJooperative (El Sofla _1  .abir) 1,323 ha; lith Octoter (Ul Scofa
El Soghfr) 2,016 ha; 14th October (El Olia -1 Saghir) 1,3"C ha;
5th November (El Olia El Kabir); 1l 'Wiousta Cooperative 1,050 '-a.
After the marger, the total area of project's cooperatives reduCed
to 7,338. Shogirat Last, which was a cooperative was cor.verted to
a state farm.(140 ha).
2.14   Objectives:   The main objective of t pe project was to increase
agriculture production aocut 10%  in t;he perennialy  r-rigated
areas by groundwater (state farms); and about 70C  in the spate
irrigated areas (cooperatives). This object-ve was to be achiev.d
by i ncreasing water use efficiancy 'cy linin.g of car.ais ar.d ccrruOr
of Feted control and iistributint atrjctures, crcr, rotatior., '4s-
of fortiLlizers and pesticides, aricultsrsl  .nd L-rigatior. =           ..
feeder and cn-ferm roads for efficiant =obi-lizatiol for o-farMi
and narrketing the produce, improved agricultural practices and
technology through extersion service and project manaien,:-nt, durinr.
the project's implementation period.       -.ecer object ves were
to provide drirnkr.g w,ater to six villaxes;   X-. t:      1 t.e  3se of
available  water by cor.ductiZ a water m.agna5.ent stu_.; rO



-9-
recarend alterr.at"rs ;0.icy intrst..r.ts c-               ;var pr;ctiv;:',
resource bc;_ization and incom# distributie  by condftcting a
3tudy of aiulturl ;price, ta.xati;n ?nd sUb3idies; 3ad to
construct a now cotton ginner:; factoryb an  21.5 kir. of feeder roas.
2.15  Prol'ct Doscriptiao:   To increase the water u$se efficiecy
irrigation irreove*ent works wert ;rovided as a .cir con;oner.;
of the ;ro4tct for 10 state Far-M  co:ri:3       1 ,7vc  ha.   rrig&aic
improv*ment works cor.rised of                  4 rlargi4nq fitlds to
facili-ate                 '-and as; iC;   .i _ev ..li   ..75-  a to traztico
improve9  methods :f  4-rigtior. (Iong fu:r.:s. 'order str. s,
large level basir.s otc.).  To :%inimiza se4.g   .osse.z r,ing of
carals (52 ks, now lined car.als, repair 23 km existinr lir.ed
canals); for better water  .-a.ugr.ent =nzruc:ior. of about `,20C
new strulctures (gated ch*Aks, turnouts, c:,.rts,  :opa etc.);
rehab 1itation cf 26 &  unat-i c&r.als ands 3r.ares; coonstruct6cr.
of 93 km farm ditches and 110 kn access and on-farm roads; and
to limit sand movement, plantirg of sbQut LO,CCC seediiz.5   orc
windbreasks .
Other components of th. ;roiect ineluded:-
- Procursment of ajcult.ural mschir.7r-;, equiyrer.t
ead impl*ments for the 'iae Of state far.s *r.4
cooperatives through 'Y.Lchi.4.nery R*zal Statiorn
(YM).  It was intended to h*lz mach.aniz3ticn
of farming operatiors ar.d lc.!sr ::.s --st of
, production.
- Procuramtnt ar4d di  rri'i:-ior, cf      e         r s-
;ant yrot-ction chtmicas.
- Tachica. assistance (l2C zno' to prcvide si.ca i-Ze_
services of *xzatriate excert3 _r. the f-iads of
narlagsment; irrig3tion; civl and    r.ni   :n*r.eorin-;
grronomy and  x:ct-rsior. s.rv c-acr        OnX r.t t. or. o'
prolect works *a-d im;urtinr -               .r- rinin, tC
iccal ^cun.tertartWt .
-  7eFlows:-W5s and trazrin    _rg  ;4  *ct.-r: 
( i2, .



-i c
Stwer..-:;sez:i.r :Z ex;:eui:'- .r7ice 'aNdr :raia4 o.f
oxm.sior. aCtnts to ad'iis. state Urms and cooperative
by de$omstrat:icr. of improved agricsl%ural yractices ani
trir.ini   of t.e ;r^cessive farmers ty audio-visual -:'ccda
and frequent periodic field visits,
-  Oivil Works to provide basic faci.it*.,s zo ;se ichabit a..
of th, -polect ina liice :ctaCle .:attr to asx villagis,
feeder roads (22 *c) to connect nine ril.qs with Ade=-
.Siz main road; and gatior.3 t5 rs,   zzne *.f ti.r.t. wor'z
langod by  ::fl .}2 flcod.
' water man ,ement study t:    ca- ed out by a f!x?
of consultartA3 to determine potential of availahl* surfaco
and grourdwater in Wadi 161ban orta, and to produce  long
torm water mar.a  etnt p'ar ff  isr Opti         -, us. for se-i-
culture ieve lopment, dceestt'c and ir4ustri*l U.se.
A countrywide study on agricultural price, taxation ard
subsidy polic; S-stams to be   o-ui4 cut by cornltantse
1he Objective of the 36tudy WaS t.o propose recmc.ernda:icn3
outlinirng altirrati e pr)licy 'natz,er.ts that could tb
adopted snd their projected effect on productirity,
resourfes mobilisatiot and !r:    o  .ostributic.
= atellite study to provide map for Delta :;ba  arnd its
an*7ixrcs P.d veegt47.a i     er.rn :oVer of i
-    n new cotton ginnery to pr: cess mediu3   s- I  ra-d :ottron
by automatic gin macn-ines.
^rrnizati:r.a. Trszework:
2.16  Pro!ect 4ilementaticr4 was agreed to be the rosmonsibility of t:h
Delta T:zban Bevelcoment Bce:d (=2B), t:he successor Qf the Lz;ej
Agr±cunlturl De `vormerz 3card.  Z'i3 .+a.3 dirtetly rs3pr.sible to
the X4iri3ter of Agzr.cultur  and   r--mrian ?efor- (Xr..'R) *'L'
permAnent secre:ary of  "   was eai3ar cf t;;e ioat.   :d_
control of t-   ,   was in rh* hanr3 1-rf -  !.-.irs  !:L '.r a;:.-
by the 3card.   The *%.zeraz ':a:i£r wa3  esS:d bY t.;a -*a! c'
five sectonos, rjzely A.- ic-;_re, Crtton rin:ery, tCccountirE,
?MS and the Zecret3riat.  Th.e prei*ct was ^     d b'y an ,:xctriat4



projcot ma-vior, s oaticna. c:v-unaor ac . ntc.r.i:sl cctr;wt.
.te project ws  simal    c be assiettd  y fIve oxyatriate Spocl.  ts:
an irrigatioi  agroumistst, a  Lrijnc-.n .rgirmor, sr. oxter3ior.
sp*cial±st, a far   ach±i,ry specialist, and a fare -a .--
$P*cial3at, all wit. lualificatiow, ex;eri.nca, tCr:s and
conditions of vrployr.er.t satisfactory tc  -irn_o.  Ca:.lo;r.t
ASoeC.ator. (=Ai'.  3_c. sprc ;a.±is -.ra to C          - e.r l P;i -.:
leter than31  A-gu st '^-, C7 c: suct l:&r date  as ;e .             :ent
a.-1n  ;DA M;ight. *gr    6 .:*3# J:4.L"3t  w  ere t-':   L-33_at"*4',
at 'east er.. IuUil"-*1 local agriculturist em..lay!od _n
tion with the As.4ccittion.  Later sy i:. s-er4-,r.r*t  ;
by the  ovsr=r.*n  anr. IDA reviioin to D*velopr.*nt Crodit ;-t          -
areet.emnt -as made.  A.'  re-ferences  r. t-d agroozer. to
were r.;laced by  Tt..  The project  nan.g,r das to ri°rt direct'lr
to the Deputy7 4Rinitv:r, '        or i:: t-.e aen3c9 ZC t:-e  irectcr
of Zeyartmentr of  -rrigat ion and X.vs-ar.aical  nginete:ing (4:r-'L).
Cost Eatimets:
2.17 3ased on =id-1977 prices the to:a2tl pri:`tt :o3T Wts
milli^ot (3,211;,90C MDr) , o' lf  h  wX -i2-.icr. ;n         ,;X\;
was fror IDA, USA6.! millior. (2,392,3C    ` .) .f ce  A?=D  ard 3bcuw
U$1l.O millior. (343,Co  nh) aover=,&r.t PD:Ri ,crtribution.
2.18  About USX1.9  :illoan (631,7CC YD) frc.  -=;A credit or 16. :f
total project cest was agre:i tc be                    Natic . 0: 1 _r.k
of 7c0:n  (N13Y), vs 3hort-t.&rn arnd nedii.-ter? -lcar.s to St ts
fams, cooperatives agd  '.S.  Short-tarn lcLn.s  7., 'a ,zC:
were to be exter.Mid to 3sat&4      - f.:sa sr, :::..-s  ::r
fertilizer3 3rd za.".nt zrob*c:ior. cl-.aw.i_n13Z, mc tly in kr.  :-. s
an annuial interest rate of i.  :(du.-ter.  5 ta 7 years; ;c-
(D  4L6,7CC) wert to ba   va   %  te . :t-i. ar.d state rffars Sat
5n% interest rate per unnu: f4wr air i... - i' 4



-t2_
Z.49     t full devtlopment, th. project was expected to^ 'er#es3  ;:sOz
value of av2ic4lturl pro&ctior. oy atout iC7?.  Me, no*t value
added  'as *aticated 218s.  The r.ut arnxal sa^vni  in for.i;r.
exchange would be a;proxiastely '4             i llincr..  Antici4e ted
increase in sublic rover-es was t34,' .rc-. the arsa.
Princi  l bmefiar`. :as   -..rere the res3er.ts -f second  overr.-
orate (L-6,XCC persons) wdhich include 7CCe a           ff.ar _i   '  ,^i;
:ersar.a3  of state aroe.   *.siaer.S3 o ':    worz ilso to b-, Cenefi-
ted ty* *'puly of vegetables  :.4i:  tr_.a  t.rvl.zut u    h.e year. 
wLtir supply was to iumprove tne hs.lth of 6CCO tSrsors.  AWc.t
2CC,ICCOdays .was to te created t  constructicn during the trojict
and ar. increse of 326,GCjds per ar.nYr. or. 'ar.s followdIn  e^--i_ei.
of thi priject.
Az ser a;yrais2l astimates t'i: _ccncric Rate of aeturr. (;) of the
project as a  fhole was 246. or 27, o:ccludir.g t:c; infrast,rUctura
(roads aad"datbr s-ipply) ar,dt.e datir and    ricultural  clicy S
The "v2R for s' l'e irriated c roa aior.  W-3  C   and '.rat fo r
>n1i1l:1 irrigatad area 2;  .  .-or the or:h.ard .e .§otmen.t alcr.e M
was ac       xc. !cludir4 the infrT  *str ct.Lr* _r.d r--dLcir  th.e b,n_Tir;'t
strear by 20  ar  sia.n3iu re-,nisly iLr.reasin; th:. cc_t st:i-,-  ,i '`
estim.ated R was 232.
^ol-'ect's Start v..d Technica. Assister., Airre -een.t wit,' FkC:
d'O3.&.   lr .   Iro ict !e-;Pr:r- :r._ :   :_ ,    *.:. ;. .e n..r...          .
werne -nt !r    -'chr.4c.. ^3SS 3;3ni.C  Wi.:;h .CC:  and  gr cu re
Crsznizaticn, (7'J;C' was aicn;.-d 4-n ^tr__ le-t ar. 3 q..6i:.LOn.a._
we s apoiinted.  Trri;icr.                                 a-r D..r- * ; r ct L.
N;cvember 1978.  About first t.r     ar. ?. :1  y_-rara proj`ectt of'ficu
was partly ir. Tarf, irt. ite  prs9.sis of '          *      EC9:' ad  - :::
4x - .ir.63t:Y r    ri:,-r    A-.r..  ..or.:  ; :f.3tr..cti.r. ;        _t
r. i twa :t i  ir. n " c tc:-r.r !t*<, :...---S.
t.e :ro'eot office wa; s=;                   *          *r,  .ir3
f"-st Years  :r so c-ecause Cf diaYs i :' -,;-t_              t oz :A  -: --.r



-13-
ranamilsi.'y *      :uatf.ed o.ocal staof, late arr*va  of machinor:'
and equipye,nt, sbtting u; of prIC3st ccc.crete 'eactorJ fer ca.sa
el&r*.ets an-I  o12..', 1-ocks, tra-.r.3 :C seretors, sur3vycrs ?._
local tenchnicians.  Acruil constructizra of irrigrtior, i-rcev:er.t
.iorks cculd not :ommtar.co ;rior to 7eruar' 1382.  The project sti"ezC
to gair. momentu= ty c*;     -'.  x,:cn8ior. of the cc nti*r  late t'
31.12.198E was idetn'                   tocesvr, d*  : slow star.nt.  ,'r*ir   i
fcr IMA cr*dit 7:E-TZP. was extrnded to                 ad tr.7 tzt f:r
;%ra  ;    cr.d    aU.   53/1-C to ,1f.:,    -.a.       z<rther extanz.on:r
for Arab ?:r._ criJt t4i1  3XE.li :.,  ^e;: r;iuczstOd ty t
Govern.ment.
technical ;,ssiatar.c-  r.d a inind:
2.21  A total of 270 .es-montr. (mr.) of tcnica .-:.zctanCa and  -3 r :n
trair.ing ccr .cr.cnrt :_j 2.15 milli:n) wcw ;rov*ded in thgs aprai_al
t1ndr IDA Credit 760-IDR.  During the project  r.pl'nettation  Aan-
mcnths and allocetior. for ,rh.s co.oner.t wari r:rised as de: e
below:-
tescrittior.                 Avcraisal                          al
=- -oSt(7z,CC)                 m  Cost (UZ^Cg,C
A. Technical
AUsistance:
Wiater M:anaEe-
.ent Sthd:j         70       53'-6,               *           . ^-
Agri -Po1ici^ s
Stud;-              2:       ' 5G                  c        , ~
Zcu iment and
Cdrwativa Zost    -          5'-.CO               -       5_ 2.22
S.;'3                ^ -:1at    ._ 2;721ri.^
" '; 5 ^4£4tge r.'.. -rf_JL_ uri,,



.ma CCJ:. (7-t4ef.1)               .-Coat(" .401:cc
|   $2Sg4 ^.4..S:44.
19 Ixt.ra.on
C*- cera                 63             .596   _e 
28d Cour.ter;%rts ,C.CQ                                      a'%57      jo  Ia
- ~~~W-.
3Sub-Total       123      ' 56.CO                    25
Total (.-+.B)
*   Ct,t: 1-^^lude  _  .c for     ,.  fc^'e   ;r ;sr_>s.A^
abroad d4rir.   ?E E/S?.
ar; dd itx    103 = till ed of Dece:obr :?95 of  *chnical Assia3tan.:,
.as Provided w0ich. was f.4edoFd.rom   :"arA  ,or;cn*n.  f car 3
expatriate ccr3;.ractci_o 4r.3ii**rs ;'-rod uy ;te Gcvoer.ent or.z
*  lateral agreements).
:-t   rr n.,ect nsn..er cu uld nc*  b.4   :            r n*b,  '
-Vce -.f  :  :.r-c  -r-^e^: meinrta,r, is;..sr irz-.rta .;:. -
a;;ointed offi,^r-in-charit fr-.o          tc tto:i   cz-o4ld not
effectively because a sense Cf divided r%sP crsib-lity trevm. - ;
A key position Iike th.at 3f a  r;-^    aar.                          :
filled f - -             A . ^    friv;l of        sh s>.ould nave ^e&r.
-elaYed till th.- reTuire  fac"i::.s *dere 3x;ailable   r z        --r
*entatinC of the relevLant :ecipl:ia o: *ach- s3toi-.list.  Arr"  _
Cf zaci±ner:I exrert  oul2i '.. Ielaqt d  il  arrival c: =achlr:
and sqiitme:rt,  wi: ,ws .     i3 all   =tg. time cc gC.-         -u' :;
trar.3-sh;-.* -.n    .^t      4-leqq.2>,..  ::   r.*e#     -5 
JP§i93- a:. _       io t+  _      s= ;o.^    ;A<  -ave -een :2E   i t ;  .
propeict   st s     ti- wfl 3.- c: t'e             '- . :^       e.t '.r:s
in a fews sta:e fa'.s wer*i c              Itt. :, coud1 D. mor  effctt-v*



and beneficial if tkh sta-  of  ach, x-ert at the projoct had bor.
consistent wit, :h.t revised imple.ntaticr. aC'r           .    'e    ' Irrigazion.
ic.-rtrn  -.%r43.-s        5i't S*M  $;.';    O,'; txt-rt3 h.aJ be^. mcra-
or less as indicated in  the a;praisal report tia  ta:Ca  was tbsel
or. gecject ccp...etion iy s.id-l73.
'.;  rin,ing com;per*rt was inre^rased by niar-:r :31C -- ^f t-an          ;lr -_s ssk:
e6t2iabtO.  _Ut :;: O felOW3, whm  were sent f6r  ozto--?ad;.sta  st  .is
leading to :!.Sc or Ph..   ';L4 r.ct ort                  c.  .e prc;.ct.
49r.erally t-':.9  cu:!4  n.ot c..rsv-^  r3''.sX with    th.es:;:-
time  due to I&n.part grcbims or s-:* o:hr reason  =1tr             ,
.eriodm  had to 'e extend.d.  They arriiel  r. c,.*!ihen wrer           trk F ect
was nearirg cor.letior  and hnad to Ice  zosed  sam.wnere  elsd.    :
their se_d- .ou2l  benef; t.b-e ',7.r;'rw  bur t it 1   s ';3S  r.^r   *  ._ ':r
th.e tro4ect.  Sinca Wa1di '_r   rojacn  rs.rct     zri arily       r ctycn
or_ :;  -and not research oriented, training courses o3edt.0'    U Ie
been limited  :o m.±:.rnum 12 month dration, and arrar;ed ir. th-e
beginr.nri  of the troject.  Tht w*ay the trairi ng  cod col d,;a-t
he* project  :tsz.liZ.  On construction .ro - ets LiX- Wadi 2ban !-.r
enphas3s shruld  ne cr. pract:i-.l traizi., .;-  short lratior. rathier
than long duration post-graluste studies,  T:e Goe                 t           n r tl
.Aacided to limit  erqnrall t.e  ' r'ti-:r.t         each  rr  .i,i  :.
loar. mor.e  tC  '  :1:'xS  .
Pr ,) nz-   .e nt:
.-',  .,awrl earth  zcvzim   mackr.naryt aggricu.l;ral iylverts;    -iE   ,ri
a.nd rc3d constr-'cticm ecan.&; ^ . e1es                   r !.:;
-a=ufactu.ring pla.nt; zirn.ery   &ip-P; .;    s  r.d r.cors ; and
tran,ort.atico  vehicles; ccrs;'Sar.s for .a:ear :ar.anaxem r;t
and agricultural tclicies stu4dy were proc-..red u-nder TC_ *   :ur   D
ar.d twc z6 bulldozers, ferti-izars and :heicalzs -ur:hased !r:.
Agricul.t ral Service C,rtora t4z. anr  only r-5 -areant Ii3l.rzse -.r.t
nade 3rLnCe considerd -as :33  vca`._lY  -r:c';td.   ¢;r.f  
roads, and water eupr ;! scnn.se f:r 3i' v;s   *C r:   t'
to ?S .       R!C. Serv    e : : :i:i-2.W    ,)si:.r:; .x-*rs wor':
werranged by a^ agrie=tr.  with .t     .   I:: vPn*rtri the procure*ntt
of machinery, equitiment and s;ar    rrsL z3 har.d    .-.c  -.Dr* t:;-



-16-
c^n.r4r-.'4 t:. e8ti-atod,iz appraisal. hisa was pertly tue to
poor response zo bids, trams-hipment involved in many o0.os,
Procedurml fcrmalitits of tval:atioc comitt#e/tor4qr board,  rnd
approval of ftunding aqacies, partic,aw17 rly, h              tvulk.aLtion
ccmr.i.ttei sleote*l a 'siddtr other than the  wo.es:.  Some  of t.oe
equi;rzent trocured took .ort thar. a rE9ar I-= bl.d"I%i to *ri±Vi.
of eTui;zment to proac't.
3i.4b  ~.>.i.  §croc,                              4 izmett under B `  z;ocian  prcble!   roused.
r.ne oi :-.* s--:r rlier3. i;C. f_r.al:; xr;-:Lidd+*.- .  wcrrt;:
=10357,533,  &3 reluctart  *C ,xp.y *qUiip.r^.t, b,'aus3* :i. <Lot.
-rices 'iero in r.ur.d Ster! in.g ;.ih dvrslued  rors4teracl;  (cr
2,''3 fror.. :t"'  ti.-.  of s±53'n' the contract (_ I   * !41.'2t,,O  t-SZl*'
Yi:c rous,  .cnsister.t ard  ersist.ernt  urzua;:Jicn oe pro5,ct :ar..ae-
oer.t through various channels Including d±plcmatic circles and
Purdr4yng     ncr.es he*lxby wa- of cauticr.ing th^ au;plier of bad
ratguion  aor.ost the .zmter countries ce  kt r .a
Ar.other problem. faced was irn the ji=enry  B.i;      e.t * y Zista?e
the  aranufacturers shi-ppd o.e defective 'lAC FF motor a*d .r.on;'I
3 other motors (not :orfcrrirg to s;ecificwations  a o r.e .e;l-c-
zent).  Also zor.e tarts af tre priss were nc:  wI.it,d  W.hich de'aye
comr.isslionig.  Lator s=;ylierls trecticn s-;erriscr departoed on
31.'tr9;- r. t-;  rotex-t o-'   enr.-i-.  zsmni*  r.^  .:~e
ccuntzs'es -or t   to  .;r@e weeks.  ;-'e ^IVe £ .              aertas.c
*        to the :.in±stry to rtturr. to ;   fit± withir t .roe  weeks to  nonI*te
; the cownissiririg and zra..r._n  o! :;ke t          ocai o-erato.rs.  _t ti'
,,  rot-.3rnd t;   .!



,c)                                                   A
I PER
:Y.    gi    in                          0      0                                                      :,r  orj
tv     C)a   tD     et    e                            n                                        41.   i-L    o       e-    0      go                       In   Its                            ae.
AI   I"r                                              p      0      0      .4    01      a      cr    Cob    vt    4+    ::r        Cs       Vr    to    :3
n        13                   r-     o      ID    $1.                                              tj                                         A    CD       D...     P.
ei    -t     0                                         tlt    C+    et                          0      0      $,.A
I..          1-4,  (A                           ct    :r    ::r   14-            a"      O'  04    ad         1-    0            6.-.
A      et            C)                                                                                                                         ort
OD    4rt                                                                                                                     ti              go
et                         &P    (a      nr    4:             cr                                       0                                        4r.    I                        et   (A
(AD    0                          -      I+    0       -b   4LPI    e.    so    II    to        P-                   rt                         fo     cj   4b                               0      C"
61           ti                   to            6-    too    n                           0             1-i                        0             0                             W                      is
a     a-    (b      vor           ct   C_..                         ct
ts    11    1-1                          :.                 ip    (P      ta    lb    .1 s'                        C,    0       : I                             ft    t4b
:1   orl    Vr             0      Ca,    1-i   ct    I -_  40    4t.   O'cl    cl    0          *1   -0       ON    0      o      $-J   rl    Ir.-   C)    w         I                        0      C3
&L   ItJ    40             n             f3    0       -I    0             ICJ    Vr    C+    &.1   el               CA     C'#    4            0      0             I..      Si.
1-1   41    et    I.:             4            10    F-I   I:S    1-1    n                      OF)                               S                                                                 &--
%,.I   PA.                                      ct    S.'.   "S    Di    P.   &D    La                                     1r           :3            th    A.I              L-11    AV!            a
It,          I.     O      a-    to                                                      ct                         el
A&                                ct    .       ct      A                                                           Et    :k-                                                   11             v
V).   a      14     fL    116    O.-   Sc    (a        VI           15.                                                    F-J   Odt   I-S   LO11   Vt    DID          lb      'C's
t..                        I )    a.            to    tit                        *Cs    PL             II    co-   to                    CD    I..             -. I      -I
1:1I    W    (D.   ct    El'   so        .1           *C)    .1    Ca    cr    4               0             ol-   to      n-   C&    co-             F..           10       i-;.      A.    I-A
ct                         (a                  Ol-   IL             0             .:            :S       tj       .1    D-
Et    d-                                              -31    ft-    o                        et
P.  .        10                                 P-       to              :1
ct    0      0      0      0      alr           CO'   tit           DX            et            is,   0      M.   0        to                                     0      o      fir   gii       4+
ft    : V    I'l    6 I    0 1    1 ,    u-&          :3,                                                                                      P,
14.    et        -    ab    cl                 01   It.:   I;j    tio                                                     CL   act    :J                                                    40
A                                                           19                                43     U      Is            ct    44'   0       "      0      *-'   :v    .3b                 0      4'b   lb      ct    CT        0
S).   IF-    lb                  Iti           (D    la    IF'-   D,-   CA.   0          60     0     4b   .0                                a             0        91
ft    ti                         4.,:    V-   lbo            a.    &I                          4",          Du      co    I--`           I..   SX     61            S.'                                   kod   ct
0     41;    0             (ft    di    Cy,                                                                  1-1-   3k:    et    at    4;_    0       0
.1.    0           C.                                 rA    I.1   to              a-    W%    1-1   el       el
cb     cr    .0                          C t                          4    ti.    o            4_4    Do                                 d.                             pi
el    Ill    co    el    P%              et    ts    W                     4      :...   : I    D&.                        b      It      ;,   g'                              "      4111   1 a   to
I     A      r.     o    IL     : i;'  .4#    C,                         0      to.   (d                          V-   0         O'k  .11   Id;                       94            0      0
A.    11-    o    ICI             4:1.   II.    of I'l a,    n      I.-   to    1-              el.                        VP    IX    4011            DI-  '..   .6,                               0      to    in        TS
-v    0       ,%    co,                                      R             et                  la
Yj    citi          I                                                             .                                        to                                            ct
ti    irt                                t,    tl-   Cs   "         .11    6+                         81                   01            9;    co.                                                  0                      n
I.:   cd      A.   4-0   'I       D`    41      ct                  0             D:    9)    0       I-    as             is    1-                                                   .1    ft    0         d`_:
V-          Itt    a.                    ),.   D       F"    DI-   I lp   :1             "      Ck    0      0      40            ID            V,   to                                     di      : r    a.%
.11          rv    is    el              1.1   C.A.          ct    "       0,            I-J    ao    et    0                                         o      cb                 C)
tu                                                            0
ct    a             I's   01                                                                                                                                                                          PL
ru    m-                          IA    4+    ct    0                      er.   lb                                 t-    P.   ct   tpl    Ca
-     -                                  s      ti    to    t..            -.1           0      et    0                           4-   `(S             0                                     4to              so
40     C)                  :4    (I                                 ct    tit    4b            .11    up    P       1--i                               t'.   t,   .                                60    Its       Xo
J..A   6            C*    el.                         4`11   24    -S    A        o--   'n    rA             w                    .1    A      tI                              $A.   0       n      -3       C
01%                                      6.1   C.    o              t    'ri-   is                   0      :1                   43    46,           C-:               # D   O       a      0      0        is.
rts   O      cr    tb             1.4           :Ir   ll    Do    0        --                   :1,   ct    0-10   ti.    -J   el    0          :1   scs    V.                        4+    O-      P      rs
$1.                -cf    91-                          rr    F-    ri       v     0                          ItA-   A's    ct        -1                          P             to    ct
41,    13                  14    C),   to                            J
Ut           SP    (11,          4b    I'S    :3    "_              CF1   0       a?   '.1   444                    I:L               06                                   :S
P.                  4L            -rt    Q::   to    ip    IS    w         0      C*    Cs    il.  U         4       -t    4+    of            di    (S                        so
41)                              .41.   to    lb      0      I'm    d.    D'.   (a    0         14.
F"    : V    CD    r.1      F     (I    ei                                IF.                                       C)                         at                       0      Cb    0
ft    41    Di                                 ID     .-I    C)            61-   (I                                               et                  C)
v                                                                  D                                                                 I
r-    I..                                                                                tj,                                                                                                                            CL
A                                                                                     $L    it-                          ro
ct        C:    q.    1-8                                   ;Ir,
iLq    uo                                                                                    4p



.^t9  t;   ace of f#rti1liers  emd chocicaLs hal -.ct ,@           muipszcvnt'
Also the rates of &app'cittio  of 'n.t  wr# lesls Vs.. thc:.
rseo=:.>.^*4fr. :.c- r%i4&l :r-. C&;w voar lzic. levZel of
fortiizrs -;s   r. the state f.rms :f -se zrc4acz .'as loss b;
21                 tha^:,  $;;.t wt.i0mbin    for 3tat-4 6'a.s ar.i ccop*:trati
less by 45 ;ercer.t of the *;raiais l        :is ati   -;:r :'.e :h:%
7arw  of  t,  -                        -            -r:  ct.  t*>  t  -!:a
farmer: .iere no      l tflv;  utilizod as s:swr. sei:
i-" C    r   v             .1*n - t-;4   Ters
Year 2   Y ew          Year 4  TY e5         re  ar
19, /9C 1         Alc /C:  V2./ ., ,3                           L
TJr ca
D' 3tribu-
ted(Ton.s)      6k         :5           ?2       1, '          185       ' -
)
U<sd(Toa)       49         lCl           '7                    13'Z         -
41ess Used                  L-5          3_
TAri;1.
Super-
Phoairhat e
:-4stribu-
t;d(tozr.)      26          4i15                 -Cu;                     ^
Used(T,ons)                 13          72 72
;% Lass Used   36            2          25:
.'  ; ~.is&;* cf fort:- iw': s a.d chwn:ica:.3  u`E  X-a. _;_.- a:s
at. tLes wiltn theo I- ort arice 4i-r.-es   s--,l.j*d3a 
Cotton accuzcut for the bu.k e.f ftrtilizer            .   .     l-isur
aimcunts a;-liad to       atCeJs  ;eta:os,   r.aras crts  ;ot
:.  r;n-r.s w9sri vjst'antris:tt-3'_.   :..-s_C  :rc-.:  r
7'Y:.65/ .*.0   fcr a fr  trsc:cr i.c'.r. .   v     jers a      e
:x¢1t dezv#rb_a:izr.: cr. '?  1.,:/.cir for                -= ractcr,



.fl  ;C, tb  ratewere in:reu5x  Ct   *  :.7;n'dr            :   Y:
rsap*ctively.  .v@n so far. tractor was s;bso4i:ed t  t* . CZ*   .
of Y!' :.5CO/hcQrs.  ; n S^,   rr  tcr:trza rate was rai ed to
M-2.2 .5/huWr .  it W3 til  SCM                           th'_   c-.  n .S.^:>;  .t t-;v.  $: S3
in 136v   ~oweJver, ^-  t-s         w   :S  * -.L    !: -.'
-,;  t.  -cr    e, sr.;.-.:.;,;.
3.12.      t sausdized no .in,2 .. tr  ;3.e  ,.-a          t;f YI. .:a/f±dar.  sa
b* vi       A'or Iat* irril:pion in t.:-^ t.r..... :n., tr.£. t;a: a
cZr.s3.ieroatie s_WIcxi     was giv r. tc 6----' r3 .:r re*;:Lr3 and
nLi±nteria&rct of' ,-_,,         crz.a -., by :.-:. 7     .ir  ;. i;:
for ;c:  vrk had 'Cren ic';,,,         t..l  :OSms,  rov±ii ar.0    3 !Cr:
C.' xabsidy to w.11 ownrzs,    &cdever, MAS  .ad nct bte.   Z.n
copt with the demadr for rtpair ar.d taintna&nce *ork, and tho
macrity of the far-,ers rad   "C.i1'    for thk  ropair3 of -f:i.
-act.nes.  Im;ort of ferti1l-.ars, chtmicals, =*t*ria1as, #,Ta:45es.'
and seed when sanctioned by 14A'    was free of dt7.  lc'e;ti?. :.'
±zmmort dUty Was a sort of  ;si:s4#dy.
I.3     AaicultUral Mttssicr. a-
Agricultural Exte:sion w*rvIc* in Lahi:   vrIor&. eaJ3 Caa
1lsh*d in 2.980.  This servict is a tranch of th* D,*^:tmamt of
Researrch. and Zxt.3icn, weich wr__a s of! cSel: ..tA- I. 'ece- -.r
1,7G.  D.rin; tie firs: two Y*-ar. ts.:r- -r:t  z'.:rtagi  ,'3
and  aciliti..s.                                   -stri,
trO4~ scv i =CAtr4 .ate 6 .t=3  r 3-V.C  .'-' a!s;' 'Cr s- ^_:&f         -
and with. T     rri:al a c1 *e: r   i       ;   f 's :rr. -v .:!: .; z
'awnr en.d -r:      !   v1..W;^!,:.  ,.,r; N...     r..r..^s
..I.ir section.s wre cQn.st*-tmti   r.:.;;           rit.     ^-_6    -
Infoo-..ation.   , )  raii .^*Sr  siv` El lar.:  rct*ctia.4.;   7- ASt
sectio-ns w4re  .an.ed by t.-o   rad*uate ;ir.c;r37 grad!u.-ts
counter;art3, and 23 tschnical assis3ants.  T:e   irctor :f
Zxter3si-.n a:d t;e h4.3s od   ::f  r s :tioncs *.e:er  a  ti:niw .:
La:e9  fir.  eC:r._o  3sistar.c3 -.ot'';_;ty el.



t     op
WI        I       b               C.3
.4 1     OR                                                                                      try    .0                                                              t
A
-N       0)                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'Li
5.0    'n                                                             -14      C)                                           4i
it       0       4!q    -1         -t      41                                   114               I:     0        4p                           tep     hi                                                 t       14
9:                       9:                                                                             -.4    rq        4.30                         5.4                                                        -.                                           A .       1.)      )     el
(                                                                                       On                       $is      lei                         -.1      4?                       41       is                       9b
4L      4i      A                                    0    -.041                                                           ISO   -.41       (J                         .41       L!       ei      la      lu       $4      S
46-4    %4       N4                                                                      P       I                                                                                       tit
II       to      I                                                                        .1                                                          4p
Ir't    r4                            5.4              0       C)
.63,
ad                                                                                     4.v                          0               4-1                                                 C)
4        U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,                                S#
5,                                                                                      do                                           if
r-4      4p                                                                     tis                                                            v!
.1                                          If)
(J                                                                  14                         41                                                                                                                 PA,    t'                                            '. :
a.               in                                        VI                                                                                                                                                              lip
.. I     s .              i. .
J.:     54       S                tv      I                                                                               to                                                                     tit    I, :      i )      S :
to      43                                                                     tI                                            10     -,4       49      I'
rl  S  o
14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VI                                                                     VI
0               .'L:    -1                         :-      C?       I ,                                         -.                                                                                                                                     (I
$)a    0                                                                                        q!)               it              6-4                                           41      fn                                I:tl    I I                                    jv
Me              4.j                                                                                                                                                                      ti                                                                                              .31
U,      -11                               ;I                                  -4        $4               0$
'e:1     q '              lip      (I#                                         -dt      4LI      cd      .. I                                                                                                                          -to
I!              4V       0       it-    -:I                                    %S    I.-O       E       0                                                                                                                             ; '.                                      bi
ci
tji    'Is       0                                                   41                                                                                                                                           Lit                                                                               P
fdl
t       "J       to      s                                                      N        V                                                    ut               In                                                                                              &J                 j
C                C)                                          to f                               S:                           C#                       to                                                                                                                13
at      In       $4               -P        0               41                                                                             411                 tit    4-1                                                                                               to               It                        t !
Is     -0-1                .     or         h              $J                                                                                                                                                     C4                                                    1:                                         43
-1    " a                                                                              sit.                                                                                                     S.
4-0                                                         OIL                                                                                                                                                                                                 41
46    V                 41   C)    I
P                                                             :1                                  14N   A                                                                       Ci    X   X   1:                             0
4p   43.  40                     -I                                                             C)                        d                                    4)                                                           0                          42
J,.   as   5.                      49    to   4--                                                "                61    I                                       C,                                                          Q
V       4-JI                               41      Lo                                                                                                 oru               r4      -V1    'ti       4.0      C)      ill      I :      4)         1:1              X       4        1-1               I"
(I .      fjs     I        g,       41                                IL      v)                          4.
49      L:      CD                                            C;                                           Cy%      so    --1    - 1                                                                ri
on                                                                                                      r-I
S:      IF1                                          4-P     *1       $J                                            el       fr.     of                        I                4;                                             I      I
91    'fl                   .1,    es.4              fl
dt      to              -11                                 0                                                                                                 43       4-1    f-I       N        t -     b.,               v         .'. :    0
9                                                0       -14      tAl                -rf      4,J                      '-4                                    11)                                       M        ; :     (I                 4;               -I
to                                       .11                                   :-       M                        fzl                 .10    -re       ttl    'If       14                                 cl      L :                 oz:      it      C-1
.10     Ici              el      ts       la                                           -14      at    %IN       -14                  in       S.      to       o       -u       9       9)               t                            C       I-$                       .11
I :     ,                        .                            41       -_I
o    to  -P  5;                              Mo  to   0                                                     0   $4                            -,   k
-1                       it)
rf      el    0%         90               01    41        -.4                  in                                                                    --I       10      4-2                                t t                                                                    It
tg      4.1    'O       UN       'ti               tv                                   I       to      .0               (V                   0                0                                 0        S a    --I        2     C.)         4.v                       11
-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C07      .4
#9      4-P       to      40                               'ti      d.       I P                                                                                41              v4                ts      C)
.4   40    $4   W    S.'                                   Cd                                                                                                  L;                                 J.                P              U    IU                      Po               0       0
-o               .4:    -.4      #4        la                                                    kV       fill                                        4P
C.P.              I      fjo                       41      it:    Al        V)       4)                                                            -ri         I':                       0      4i        C)                       is.              -W-1                                                           54
o"      0        40      0        0      In       r`l                               91         VI       41    -el    -VI         0                 NJ        -rt               ri               L)       14     .64       43                                  1.9                                       ot-1
41   0                    o    a                   At-*                              -"          S .  "    r.   9:  IQ                                          11   N    V.   to   el                            Si  ao,  C)                       "                   54               to   'd   C)   54
-v4              0       v                          fe     -PI      p                 -ri    -to        -L!    -.4         0                          -'4     -r4     -I                .1.1            .,I      4.3    4M                            "          I.              .11    -.I               4)
Sp                                4p      n       -0                           of                               :11:                                  $4       04               0                        0                                     41    4-1        1      .':       I ,     .0      42
1P4                                                                                                              C-4                                                                                                                                             (J
40              14                                                                                                                                    do    '14         0)
(1)   J    43                                                          43
44   o    1!   v    in   54   ti.  VI    o4                                                                                        t4'  ;5                                    4-'              -4



0
Z     Its      O        f'Lo
I
:5                                           0        too
0    to   !ID  I-    0    oil   of   0    I.J.   I    a    0                                             0        c-t                                                .0    n    o              11  Sri   Si.  :1    1
:1               411     0                1-       I..    1:.                                           Id        et      0                         ct,    )-A               to       co       40      SI                        I.-    tv           I I
t"      C*       cl-    .15       A               ON        D, :    Id.                                 (A               Is       0       k-A              tL       !I               as               4 16                              n
t"                                                 C)   f).  0    0                  11,   I'                             ti
11  5
ti.
1-1     0        C)      p        I-J     Gi.      C'N     61.                       Li      id          ar                        Di    kit    0                                              11,     GP       so      ei               et                                   CL
Ill     0        1.1     Io-   1.1        0        to      foe      Is                  g                                          p       I's      fL                       1,16     co               irt                 :5       4rt     &L
Ilm     .                                                                                                                          1-4       .
H                                 Cs  (be  Is                       d.  0                                         0    w                   Li               0                 411                               :x.  ji    $1.  0    e    0
CL  V   ct                                                                              0
(14   ta   :1                     (A                                            to                        ti  ad    a    0                           it                                et   0.                                                        '.6
0                                                  (D    $1.  'b                                         0                                  Cy   ;C                           IS,                                                                            4b
q..                                                                                                              el                                lj.
ILL
(I                     ri      Sol      0                           40       CD      Cb tl  .10    Iti  tj  -1                  ti.      et        I              No-              :11
cir                      et               n    :r   "                       do.;                                                   0                ct
to      --       I-      H,    &          it                        a t     in               #to                          41.      4 1                     'P.
Cs      C+       0       to                           ct      II.      0       C)       I:      I ..    co,    g 1,    el.         Co                                t)                  :S               1.1
(01                      -                                                                                                .4       lrl                                                        et                             G.    &.6
4's     "       .1       Os    id         cl                           a       St       kj      GP       a                                          I'-              a J,
v      .11    til    1-1    M            rk               n,      ba       Svo      alb                clo      U.    di         old                       ct      di       go                       CD                eV
C)    otj       -ft               .'t      0                  I I      1--    in       - -      '.'%'            I..              s-1.             I
t     01       io      it:      t-l-             0          Su      C4                        lb                Cx      u        to.    0         :1                                                            &P       :S      0
it.     (is       11      I       do      0        cir     .(I         ct                       G)       4                                 ct                                                                              6.).    t)       a.
PI              X        I !      It              4       lit         a.      0                 0                                                                   .1;                                          to               .0.
O    ti.                 0    ct   -tt                                         QL   x                    ut                                                                  et               n                e. -                to   IL   140   0
PCs                       ti-    J.-                        1-1   I' .1                  old              et      #-J                                                 0I      ".'    J         to       Cs'    U.             D       I               61i
P     C)       ID      5.).             ".    C J         (I      V,       "                   U.               di      cl       : v              :1      ILI      so                P      t J      "                .0                                   ts       to     ate
to      'I       w        I        I                  0               IC$      :.I      th                       (06      I-               Di       ij.    c)                DI                                                    so
ll      :                            ct                                                         a.                          P.    [A-
%PI      0       L"                                                  . I      :%;                                IC)
W                0                                                  (d    0    SI               -f                 l.  %`A #  0.                    ct
s I     .10'             .1       it:             I'l               9       0.    62                     :1      I's                -               of      17L              its      co                                                    SL    Iti        !01    411       co
tu               1.1     F.-                I      it                                           et              1c.1      :1       ct      p        as      lp                                                                              1, A    so       :%-
(A      0.1      -1      ti.    o         w        II-      m                                   1.1      4'I     0        0                0        1-1                                       N...
01                                                                                                                                                                           N.P.
:40                                                                                                              b,                JA.                                       I.-
co      In       te.                                          0        ell                I     0        (,J              to.    Co        to-      11                 03                                 40
.     j
11                                                                    I       off                                is,              ri
'P      el               c I               L)               u       1-
I do                     9 4i    Us       Ii.                                    V      ..I     f        1      :3       41%     et        I    GP.         J
4,    C a              W        so.              f.)             CA                   U-       0.    :1                 (a      tl       I-               It'    to,       41      IC)      :1       -S-                                                   a
Z::     gip                                        .1         co                                                 w        O                S-      co        ..     6 4,                                          et      ;I.
DI                                                                                                -
G                                                  0        J.                          II      0                                          : I              : I     t,
VP      et                                         I do    :1       :A                  0       cl                                I .-                                                                                                              IL       !.J
c                                 et               to      ct                           !V'                                                                         rb                                                                              .6
p.                          W       off      (v       ta      co      A.-
(t.     01               .1
co              41.                                                   D)       el               -71    id       '.:1     El       ta               ti.    :1                 be      I'S      t--                         J.-L     :9
I-11    Fs                        ci                                                          'J'    c t      40       %4 -                                 Li
t o                      0 .
c                                                  C*      I P      t                        is-
v.                                                                                                       I -   0          C)    I    ti   1-    - I   Co   et   Ik #J
J!?               --                                          US,              44.    k;                                                                                                                 0
i"
rA                               C.                                         U.
1                 In   tA                           a's   (A    CL  .11
co              ct       ti-                                                :, :                el      a
1)      to         41.               4        -J    It        el                                        C                        -el       0
-'s             vt       I:L                                                                                     i)       #A      f..      it      in                                            SI
ji.                                                                                                                                                                 C&.    0           v      W.      ci                                                                     $16
0.2     :S       fi-     I.-    &         Ij      %SI                                                   9.4
j'      J.-   IAi         :I-    .0       tD.                                                                                                                                                            to
de                                                                             C#       co      Co
1 S                                                                    t                                                                                                                                 rt



- j-
3. 2    Yields:
impresasvs :i.i*id r*s'.;a r:r4            . ':z * .str;i.w
inacluded :O*r   .£:.* :nz.-.*insru<:ru.   ck:. 7.'&'-
tcr*e.^;tomato43 19 t*.r.3/n^.: -*-Sr*r i-:rs:-;rr.u-
(-.odd*r) !''.Vtcr./:-, scrg:c.r. (;s   .! .,ocr./h.ag tu.i:a
'     tcuJ/ha; -.i&tir -.h.':  olzn_wt.3  r   .  t'6fi
*r.d ;ctatois 9.52 tcr/!:s.
>he %.5t4 -' "!:4s  -I - :;at -.r :-;  _ .t-.:er; -  '- . rr.--ra.
demonst.r.tio. . -;*t; surv4wr          e 4-.    ,ot..
cocperat i9Jes an d           3 ..3     . s... *.. *.cr.& .rAl c s .n*'td
with  tr  in3titut-Lo..3 3..C. ".c  :a   :  A.      on tr.c.l...       7 Il
'fod  ?Research. Cortra andtli i:9 ia  iional P.<   Protecticr.t-oot
Survey of pest devoel-ot;.ent i.    :.,  I t       a  ca-iea   oui  .ut;it
th.e Natioul Crc- Prodtcticr.    -r.                Thr.3r .c'   C'O
covered inclcd6d cctton, :cr.         s 3     Xlr :ci-r'S.
3 22      Asoro:=.ic Acz4irt -t_s:
nwumber of fi#ld de6=oa3trution:s   . :er.^onactep dzr i -e
effici2r.t ;se of ir;i,atio:: w.;atir. : :';3r . s   of
a.d  v...t ^  :ra'                                : n "omic act-J'.'t
cr.d _oP-.-.W_W7    ...e z., :. :n.    zu.l
-  ceo.;cticr. af  i:"   '    a.a,  C-.-i.wv .,c cr:.
factors, ar c:--t ^. o.' :_:   ar r-i.ts
-  dov.lotenv of irri.a:i:r  s-. a'as  4i.^.ati.z the r.c'. r
of irrisat-Lc.r,  m_rntere-;                 . rjQ j-t-v  ts.e
'7aluof -..watar to Ce    X:i.i iXU S r           .rc
- Trrig-atior. r; .;-irsr.sr~-5 .* 43lz': 3a.-   r    rd:
:.¢C-.-.w,'_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '*. .-r   -.,r  - -:   ; "sair
*r. * .e  .:.  .::     ...



0  i               I d6:  ors       0    (hO         0  t  010        Cl         tr               P-*    co   C.a.o*                                                  a.   ei    p.o0
'1  0.7       C11(  ai   p .      1          9 ct                         . 4.,   Ls   Cl             eet   C.-C    ;I    ~ 0                  0              p.  C.   4    co          -4 
ct   g. *"1      ) .            5 *z   (    r           a           S    IA      -'              '         I    I' 4I              Ca   I.-           t       et   to   P. 41;                 C    i
-.    i    .                 D.. :    l c    :r -             ito.e-           0                 <11.5a            C          to-'  eV         0 (a            -'  (a_-' aEr   I 
C*   *IC         ct-   o    v-t  :11  fi   1u '               : 1   0                     0 .e    p.   g~-  I.-,                ,'-.'           ) C                            0    *.0    is be
(41  (ft    0 (A   I-`_  1. -4   O                  ct                    .    QD   -'J  a'   Z4         *.        '<  ~i-   et-  (.          :7   S.;   i.  Id    .       0 a. c%
o' 0 0    ai          o    *".  co,  Ca,  ct 'El     al- I--C    Id   I-"                                  0      :1   6,. -       t*-   -               -,  :1   :  '. ~I   ge.
ri   ;~~~  ,-*- .~ :v  oD   at.  :'   cl          a                           0Cl     f~G              .1   (a   I-'        0    1o
i.   .!  q ~~~~~~~~r            a:.  *"~~~~of    01.-a    :r      6 -,  aa    1.         co                                                      et-.es o da   - j   c o-ss :  .  
it r. A.   13 ct    iS.:  '1                            C.   a    to    c-  .4   a'   ct   to               cIt   -:               ri        0          :     c-t-  ci         s    -
a-t  eV  .3                                             rs -    :'-   I-'    4:    O    ci   a,  cr   1.-  t.    )   Ail  IF..        419.  f).  d-           If.        *-!.6P
4)    iIT;r  R. *' o                   a- '                              CD.;   LL   C).        D$   -       4    a-'  Di    .    It   ci-       '-                                  D (    0
~~ ~~: ~~~i ~~~       *!   *.   c. ~~~~~~~~~-1   0~   *V   a--  Ci-  (A             (a          ..                      0   .   0    I'           E      : 4        ic
1.0 ~~~j   ~~  g,~~       g..J  g~~~.  ,-., ~1..    - 3*                0     t 0   3 4                                     '          i .' I-
*  ~~    g,~~  g'.  0-I ~~~o ~   I'   i~~~.  g~. ~~  C-.'.  5-'  1.~~*  r'*4            tj                                                la. 1 C.it  e
*    ci         a:.  so   :r   d    Cl              ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                         ~        ~ tv*   *.0   1.0.  Int   stA:
:'   i-.'  (I.  1.)  ~  Cl   3)  p.   ii   (8    0    Cl         fo    0    4    (Cl       1          0    I~         0  'I          ti   C)      t   Itg  s- 
a:-  s              :  ~--    v  ~    ~:   '               -~         Ia    r   r.ac  D.0.J-  us C                                               s g*c) a                          ) (
set of %g    :v  'LI          gI   at           I- 'U       .r   ci-   ep  a           Cl          :    s-a    a)   es   :I   g* a           '             :    '        s                 
ts  9 to                                                                                    0                               &a i                  P t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)*-i-~
I    g    II       :I               IC-        0      p. C.                                               .        4                                            .    .
IL 0                     1'                            C&
c,.  ~~~~'.  4.~e  r) s           fi Cla s                                 .'         pLe.   4-IC                                                 .1    0.
De    . I    log         I    t      14         C)   et                     at g0   '  -                       4.                                                                IiC
~~~i ~~~~~  ge                      1)~~'A I- o    I)   O    a 4.:    S          146   et         IL           &D                                                     de 0 
o    : S   I .   : I  me   ct   Lo  0- Is                                                    ciii   0 
-.  '-    g    -ge*    i..?    ::  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  *-   C    5-a  CA.~~~f  e    C.e  t3 *        -                                     b D   C    I i
*.  ~~~~~   %J    a          ...         -                              A                                                                                                            ti   sL  . :    3  o  I
L                                      5,   Ct   0    :'~~1  S    is-  is   0b             *.    5           50 (.                                      -
(3   4)                Ia    ci   41   I'   C%        ~~~~-.   U    *%                  1   Q   ~~~o. 0v-31 aD),
'C c'      o' ~      %      03.                       i's   C I                           b.                       -    s   zw p                                        ofis
*1   .~   ~    ~.  ii   o,   I.-   4    :*   Or.    ~ S  q    a.            a'                 '~2  (4  ~a.  ci   go                      C5S of                       C 
*1   Ei   -* C.   o.                *-          n               Is-  Grp 0 e    )1 'la.                   C          et :s   I'  a-
B..     0.  *      0    id   Cl   ..  co        et         I-    U     a    rt   *.:   N                       'is 5.             V             0   ci.
I,   16S  ii       'C         S.     ,    *.   . 4           Ct :2 3,  Cr)Stu
I;g    go.~~~ ls   -                                           .
ci ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                -
*:  .                                        S..1 
al  LO                         I    C*8"p.   r   Ie,016$.



-24w
tcul; 37 ;r-.*-- .f :t ':* t::t :a.!*r  ('3;2,324) was
rai!bursed  ;cy ZDA,          ei'f -a.tor va-ly sch .me
w*A e.ead of  sc        *.   -ar                `.--ficlaties tm .ftid
froM tf.s sct3  r.*. 9-11 the  :er .:  ,?m !y z:r" ;rs, red.cas
,orJsidiracby _r .  t: 2s.1's     S
2.5     fi*der Readst
At RariI'3      ;     C3Z.:  W: a*s wes s3_.    at '.'S235, 3 Z        C
of wih_icOh    W .. a3 to   _.Lzc  :a c-,'C C     (YM34,,:4 ),  Z^ 1.- t.
of feeder roa"s i: cor..ect nr._an* 7_4:a,s ;c   Ie=-Toaz :             ma.: d ,
4e *stiMateI c-:s3t. bIsCd ." HiI:.a Ai::r aty D sign (l98-2) wa
WhiCo u .4*3 inI.^-ied 4      ,. ..:e   Zn .. .,-'*:' .     A'.or.6y
3overym,Lt's furia rei...: tz fir.nnci the balan.ce c   _D^'z
sh.ar  for this com;lntnt ^^s 17,30'^,^C (C.tz?6                        u *r-
Tision rissicr. d%rirg th4ir v. 3:t to .-'Y (27 Xxch to i :-;
1982) recommended th.at if th.e               -mrds f';n4   .er?e not ava,_k
the  Gvor.r-ent ahould farmally ;pro-ozi a red-o.d road com.pcn.::t,
for whi.c  it W.'c.I2d to a_e to        ot.% t:                          La:trd  f.ds.  r,
it was ageed t, constct c:A3r,.ct   .       r-.
Dayen) which was located outside tz i6:;  area er.d thus r
no costly strmctures.  This fteder rsad  ais cor.;loted !.t tre
Scver,mer.t's expense .  Als  co..-iat *i  :as3 Al-'laht feeder rod.4
(L.t! '.''  wr.'s5 U!mo.*y for trhz3 :cn;:-o.at ':S,1C2CC) waI
r*-<1^eted t. ri-pair sczr-   r  ^er:  dt_r.+,g;d i:t              153;-J2
fl.ocd.  Ap.-.raisal    I  .-  '                 .'or a;z,cut 22  . -f f.e4*r
roads was not r,i1_1s143tic  ia r'-;%.i:e8.
Wa;tebr  trz.s.   ~
To  exz'cre t.e-
t'Z.  s   c-- use&o f'iQL S    t..  :c  Li
a water  .anagm- e.t zt,_-; w.a3 cC:.tctea  ; '             .iare    ::.;._tLr.S
(1.) tof C;.-bridge, _T.glanr.   r:,; :: c                 r. :.-...
5,doty     ".were; -



(a.*  To p°     ae la ng-tearm  ..ttr c.agecont y.n !or ta.
Wadi a Tlbar. DwIts with. ;rcpazals fcr s..tir.  tht irr.-
gation re.utre-*r.ta  -n ij r.r*asei -.v?.wr a s4;.; ne*d3
of thf ncn-ap?iC2t't;i  setctr;    ssibi irr.v:.'vir. r-,
C-.11:1=4 s*wago af 1&1.'*.-.tt ,r  w;S*rtr;:ater 'roc.
'he '.Wadi Bana :r a-y *th*r               341rCi.: s
(WI  T:3 dimr.rstrrr,* V:'t  te:o.o       n d. i^convnc-   ftasibi4lit
of: -
(1)  tV3 new watu  su,r   .:    so;rce  wr frn    -a i
ps propcsed unrzr 'r).
.*^  '.3 -..k e.X  S.:  C:  4-7z  : --.   ..;t'^.;'   Z;  a
Tutar., i  ';t.d fwatar.^  m' ...             nzits  *ar - i nr
_1 sr            ' ':£   e   .     ig 4i           fcr
(iii.)  the *.z  of 3OWIa* *water fr i.-rigatic-. =rUO3C3*
(c)  Update cnd refin.3 the .                   ac-ifsr  '.od*;  3
in the Wadi  t'&n study, Us-rj  !h  lsteSt .sti.atior.
of field rarsetdrs.
This study was ir.itia.toi _r. mid-l97f  end comp1lttd
by mid-101.  Tht final report was submitted oy the Consaut3nts
in July 1981.  .'ho ccat in6urred was :^,07°2,407,  ully  d1sbursed
by IDA.
Study  Fn Ar' ;i:a'              -c
and SUsid:; Pol:Cy 3. ti=3:
3.27         t ^or.tact  -.ts            :'i;r -.rc---   .:
ri.-ftod, *'r.+:t.r. Y' .^..4  '^r cs:ry4;.  out 
ccuntrywide sud:;y cn zrica    .    rico, ta-z.ttion ..rd 5AiJ :d.y
policy systeWs in .D-,.   .-.i  s          W3 c x&  ^oncart.ad w.4xl, &A-riz-
tarod -xicqs,  .rx-otectior., sul-cad.,   X.etvs  ^CSo
any other as;e:t3 c-f                          a;ornrv-r.*    idn.inistrat.sr.
*dhich affect LA, i:A ;turm a      .riurii -   inccr.: or t
-raducticr. cs0;-.  V  i-. r._%_  3-*.Ct_-fir,:3 .; C'.S63 
set of r,co: ,r.4;:t     :;'r  - ,r,K  ntt  zci S rst?u1.er.t3
of th±s :aypea  ta :.&;i i cc: c  unt  :1  .ir i*  -t c   ,ronaZ ctIOn



.
626-
or. te *ccr.ocy an  :  iz:me  isatr"icui:z.  rhe sr4dy was
completed toward3 ti. anrd of 1961 arnd t.* fiua! r;eprt was
subeitted by tk# ccr.=.41r.ts to the :4r±_try C.  4riCultc1 re
in Jan=ar'y i92.  Finbr.Cld by           - ..-i3 VtiY 003tet   .
project ;S%aO,<.
0.23     Satoil4te  0tdy:
ne, project   r.nar.ci (5,Z20,ZdC '.dr  Z.;/  lrAd cowr/l.ai
use associSticr. (DS )  s'.;.3-iy by                 of 1*c;s
5Sas of Teror, t. ide.r.O u            de t djS 75g:,ou atf*r ;oteTntiL
for  ^t-re acricultiral  &avio;-.:. *   ::         . t  w as crwx4'
out under t -.e i_.-nCO Of th.e PKInn._r.9 : 3Q;r       Th '.it of t6.e
WSorld BarkIs .;-ie^:rs nrd .n:rt-' ;iviic;...rt ''e;.zrtin*.et.
3.29     irrilation         ve-er.t iorks:
7C? irz;rcvitI  wator -a efficie,.c:, ir.nd '-"; -Icrease cror;in;
iztensit7 !;rrigW.oz im prov,es z -.;rkas f,r '' state fnrs
(figiure ') er.coM;Z3sin  1,755 '-a wore               i 'n %he pro4ct.
TI*34 wowrks :onstitutad a major ccmpor.n.et of Arab NrA Crodit
53/80 with allocatior. of USA3.8 m41.ior. (YI.1.3 miUlion)
apyrox.r.atel,   The a;pra3sal rrovid*d a turried Pi;*° diztrti-
Ution systeM, which was cha.gsd durir; ;ro4*ct im;emertgtio
to c;.!  l.ined -crzi s:stve.       3'/3t*= stlect.§  rarnt,+e"
reasor.able standars of water ^cr; e;ar.n 8ffi:  ?.c     d *wedlad
be easy -o rapair irAd =aintai:'.  :',, a,4                for settir.
up prefaoriceted -.'art for cana!  w.r tf  .s 5             d
,,as ;rod;cti.; f ^:.r.l 'i  r.ir.; -4i.r- -a  ont'"o.y  lcal'; .
Tb.. ;Iant             .old 3ern .;::=. ':r., r i     after corvltti-:r  of
;                irriEgtior. wcrks f:r 1,75, .r 5; t. 'e pr;r4tct,  'Unit r.rc
' or cansl l.i.nri WCs considaribii, Zo--r than f;r the sy3tce
=ccstructid from  impcrted sAb 3Zs-c;;-bnt pi)3es
3,.t Cfi_   :,-Atur.  . e.; r./Z;, :.:.- :r.l- lL*^ 5;r  .;r.!.. ;.  :. _-_
%d stat-L fax:ns  f--~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.- ;nn-  



basins as u2as 1  =ZC-.C: a:d Iand  .'c.loir; a4in-  oft
1 new Itted oarAls arA repa±r e! 12' c; old existing Lined
carals; C:nstrlatioa of about .,2.'C new Sgttd :rntrel and diaetributic
stractures, 9?  ks !3rm iitc;Pes, sr4 i;; k<  acc4ss and cn-fr-r. roads;
and ±m;rovov*.t of ecout 2  W. s;a-, :-.alls.
V thois of acgouticr. of  axten '.;c':3:
3.31  In order to Ir.lop £ satisfactor:' :et..o: ftr e.ecstiort of
irrigation works sveral meetings iro srar.ged in 19e  ;y the
project manageme"t  i;h tVe Dir9corit* of Flaning arnd Ir=i(#tio.
Depext:..nt of K*:R  znd tt* fol2.cwdi&g arn.es were consido'2od
and 3C-t'i.niz:%:
U)  :xec~tior. o.;*5'h*;. _r.,*:rw*,na1  ^o.     tor or.n unit its*!
bid ;rics.
$_I  t'hrough fortign cor.tractor, cortrct-&d fcr ' arvcr vtd
t-tchbnicl saff onl7.
iii)  Through tntirely locally organize'± grcvms (tt32, f;r:s
cvucept), since no local conr.octor3 wers ava±lein
the project area for irrigation construction work3.
Alternativo (iii) wa  speed upon ancd aort.A for execvtorn
of the Lrigatiou  4orks.
3.32   DA had been emphasizing to tntra3t constructaion of irriatj:r.
.icrks to local contractors.  'Vi;h grest die.r.}3t   n   cni
centruct  could be signed stith a local contractor for .:n*
-crstruction of atout ;3 c  c' r.onw lined  ar.ais and appurt*r."r.e
structures for '.onasrah state *r,-.  Anocti.r cor.aruct W,oS
negotiated *with ztate far- ..an:.!-r cf ::      .i .-  reir c'
about .0. 1  of *:Isting lined ctnals.  :c boocsz -  t.   raz;,
of ;rogress the project evolv,d a  .t:-cd of Pi;tY ltcur
contracts wcith the project '*Abour.  ro.^r 4ac-. category :f work
" lcd  ev7*11in, corstruc'.ion of new lined carnals, s:r-crures
etc.1t :iXV  wore determined  .tich the le.bour cr.n a:c^-.? z!h
*dCit   h#in.  3rnne nt w,stpes. aatz t wre ,;orz. ^ c;;t for esc:
item of' work at ;hich the labour C.c-ps ;eri ai_ :0'cr  r.
additiorj2. -=attite is coa;p2.te#  c by zxn for jifwr.r. n t-
his reallyJ Ia4pe  to incr.ase tv.. rate of proErisz trs-.ncualy



A x=:!:C:;f rut*s  0           tt  'cur :;.rra ta 1- C':t 'it
3,*33   P=rors  :rri         r     _-- -ers
Ov*r%II  XcS3 rc;1 Z       r.c i-'Od
Reezai 4    sor.s sco.ed:id -T;r _,s,. :-,:,
The deta±l3 of zro 3   are s:o    i _ a^_e   . ini:B owr. :w '
crcress accor.ii>.h: s.c a 'r art:c f~.s '3   S  C            .as  c1.:-
A. 'tate hrl-s  oomtl'z't   tLe a. ..         5:
Frt                   Area        t^.-_-.or. Dste:
(ha
.adi l(air                 o.0              O.to'cr 193
ShojiarRt                                    Kay,  ,
:-* jakid                  425              Dez. 1383
9^onasra<                  3CC               >,ec.  e';,5
Jrrad                       70                1c     S *i5
.I:sXa3&.-i                2CC               De^. 19-5
Total:   1,315 ha
3. State F        Sc!heduled 6f.r Z:.-icn ii           < !E:
Shogirat (rast)            140 ha            jur.e, 1i36
Jawala                      200 ha            C .t.  1,-86
Fiyus;h Ou !I-&di '6,'-a. an1    ICO hP af    ',C'!.  I5w
Total:      440 i 3
T otal 'X-36. acout 25C r. tr.g   *- :'r. c__i^
detv*lon,ed -;rdar th;e trC,iec  5C-A   ^   ;. iwc         of
-4 rnerr:
3 .3-   :^.e ccntrast  .          -'--ery !  rziis:_j  r                  sree.r
buil_iinx, sutc..atic sir.. nac;hiaes,  :3.1£;r,^.-l_    .-
ard training of 'oAcal cvratcr..) wa;a           u.n er  0-' to t.'
lcowest biider, 'urra. - Carver :r.c.               :as f.,  o:Crs f "'r   S , .
(fundedw   Arl., 7mndci) ir. Febr-uary 1933  .. serar-- ctr.-act
for t, :t:- .s;.  tc         :    a'aions .;a r.- et     i *.;it:. ;c_l
cuilders (_,A,, nrstz;Cticr. Zit-.-^._ r.  :  -- :._.5' o.:     clr.
'%O=i3.405in;:>i-  r^ x-;e tIB6nt  CA_IC^^4'"t.-'2wW^.r_r,
This tarSet cc;d n. t t. -            :aM.2.  1       ;e -ir:' r_r.-t-
one 2oC :-,-   e     c  ._t.^r './:itZ           r  c::r; -.- S  crs



-29-
n.*411' r.eplacrn.ent.  4-0sc nael'td d*-.  3Cre: :;ncr tarts ^f :;i
press wAtc. woC* ':.st ;r                and', and two  ±sS3ir.g pael 4scrs.
Supplier's arectior.n -     rvsr    zartea F': ;r I   1              t    :er.d
cthnor business.  -nre s_;       r :ioi zeern no:ifl.d to Zeplaco   ..tl:
tno 9 =otors ar.d arrane shipmer.t of -rsting                ItS,    ; qr.d  1u-4
erectIcr. au.ervrscr :-  v3rz    to :c:= 5te ;::e-- rt..r.ir.. wc-:r   r.:d
fulfill his ccntr&ct;a.     --cc ticr, -! fin,. Co .*Sicr.32-  ar.nd
traianng of local ;ersorn.l.
3.35     P.ovia'ons:
'hanvss made in. tr*ect Iesign and ri-scr.S t:orecf serg dixv--33t
aL.oady in r.ara 2.        H v.  -    these   an;,s i_d not effect t.e
;rigiral objecti7es of :.  ;,re:.   r  on t.i,  project ccztc;.o0t
-f.ever roads ,21.5  :.-.  :.  t^ be omit--d Wca._e  f* inad'2-.u:t
*-nds provided in the ar,priisa.2o es_:.;:e.  Te. t of f0 edor
:,:ads wgs -;nder-esti-.ated in t; e                 Rut6:a:.  ter chan'r.  -Za;,o.-
p;;raiaal estimat.s ) loca. Hiiis.way _-r t:n .nt1'3 *sti=ate for t'.43
..r' was 'SZ,913,CCO as 4isc,ssed alredy irn pars 3.2.  Th-e reas n
for under-estimatior. =i7r-t be oarr3s:. at the  i             fe Cf ;rO iCt
preparation.
3.36     Imlementation Schedule:
Major factor contributint o aboit 3! years -delay i.' the co1'io
target of th.e pro4ect  as ,zver 3 yers 1              stA- Rt  of irr--sticr.
.mpro',eemnt works, which. was -rinarily d e to  :!.rne  _  dS -r.
fron ..urried pipe distrilb  or" S, Ston    :o o,,-, t        ^      3
Other si;rificant rea30n for d-la;  in -re.c* -               .t.|i n
r4cr.-av ilability of a sUi t.e:S r.   ..  - :.-. .                 ;;.
r. -:relar zroect mna;er.  :,at -ositi   :c .'. rn.t  i  ._:i ;
before  wih-l9el, whereas t!:e troject v:a=-Ad  nr              l- r 7
Ir. fact this k.ey ;cstiCr. rr;    i           fl :;  :: st on  :i.
300s   after the start o.f the project.  Ctr-er !ce.-tor.i w  ich 
the impliorentetior. .nclade                        of .t  OZ l
fcr irrigation  .iore;s; 'a^i;       sk ira.no, :;ur.~  :     .
account sys:t-; liri:_ti s.f  xt ,r ..:  ; z          .i;   .-
consuming -roce3s, rf :r.ts-o.i-.-r.:                              --;ori^i;..;



'300
and s:cat -:at  aAd ;reeodura.  or.uli:i±.  of eustom clearaz-a;
shortage of tranhort; delay ir. ;revig facilities to staff
lice h.cusing due to shortage of residenti  acce=odation availablt
in the project area; and  =-availsbilit7. of aerial photo  and
topo-mays of the stata farms and :coperatives in the project urea.
3.37   YMajor components of the rrc4#cAo ^ar:l*t*d by t':* crrginal t2et
date .w%.e 30, 1983 were as follow:-
a)  '.ks :
Overall comr,ietor. of xr.iatn imovent wcrks by J.-ra
1983 wu 1?.7<,', Wth t1re fllow'.n; breAcdown:
-  Lined canals and atructlres                       1207eh
-  Land levelling                                   21 .;
coos and on-farm roads                        1C.
tg:lnery
Water supply to six villages                    1CC
-  WJater zanage.ent studyr                         1ON,
Study Agricultural policies etc.                10%
-  Satelliite study 
b)  Procuremgnt:
-   .Lchinery and Equipment                         75.
-  Fertilizers and Chemicals                         51.
-  Consultan.ts                                      99.-
a)  techicalAaisance:
Specialists and consultants mar.-r-onths             79.61
Followship/training (overseas)                      28.5f
d) Lngstitutior.a1:
Vtterzion servic.! in Lr.eJ was aL.c3t %^1Jy  e*tup.l   _ut
operation and mainteunce orgmrnt±;aicc fcr upke¢  of tre
completed works wdas not setup.  aes .ot.siilities of >Zlta
Tuban Developmert Board  fD) for tit, project imploen*.ttSti=o
and monitoring were shifted :_ te :i. :..Jstry of AEriC-i-?r
ard Agrarian Raform (;AAz).



-31-
*) Financil^:
v.rali .x;rrdicure by t.he orii4iJ1 tarzrt cepltt@n
date wgas 67.a percent, with breakdown as follows:-
Allocatiorn     Dupndi-        Componet
Agency:       (t8 s         t -r 15c Pentaded
-                    t'.(S A)
IDA          5.2 million   i.9      illirion   7.C-
AFESD        6.1 zillior.  2.97 millir         48o?
Local
OAppraisl.)l.O: mllian)
Local
(Additional)               3.80 million     85.41
3.43 m.illion)
ReQortizlg:
3.38   Periodic progress reporting was quite satisfactory from te.*
begnning of the project todate. Cuarterly and amal progesa
reports were submittea  al.cIbt rarlarly and as scheduled to  .ll
concerned agencies (IDA, ArzD, FAC, IAR). Su;#rvsry agoerciest
operations and technical diviaion,s at .AC Headquartops by rbsne
reports were fully abreast of progresa of various rzciect activ.'-
ties and well informed of bottlenecks/restraints and te* sclatior.s
proposed by the projeCt managerent to resolv;e the probloas.  .i3
helped them to devernine fr#e  ency and tiriai  of tcatopping
visits.  These also helped funding agencies to ha7 knowledge
of any serious problem, aatus of prccur!eno:t and disbrswent,
which were good i.ndcatcra to ascer:a'. .c,: ti-.a ;rcject was
progressing and areas where their advice needed tc exzeditk
matters.
Project Costs:
3J9   Ap;raiaal total project cost was "412.3 5i.l1ioa  or 1i.219 million
(IDA US05.2 mil.0io-n: AFSD US"6.1 million; and Local U41.O    lon,.
Due to inflatiorery effect (about  ji rear3 delay  Qn ov*rall
completion) the total cost of tite ;ro3ect increeaed to US*1l.75
illio0n (!D5.402 mi3lior.O   2h: cost ovnrru: was totall7  et tY
the goverrm*nt.  'io increase in foretgn curr,rncy 9p;FO%c:;t ws  -o:it i



-32-
bec.seso both t'-.t furndin  agoncioa (A and A.-;"3D) did not W.gt.
to maks# additiotal allocatior. !or the pro40ct.   For the recianf
of not overburdening the ',*ov9r=*rt, it .vas desirabl  that about
"SO3.0 mi'lior, of the coat over-rar. should have beer. met by addi.-
tional -.ontribution from. the funding aiencies.
.3,    Finwncial Sources:
M.4 Cr..dit 76E-Yt'R for          il5.2 -.1lcr. (Y.Dl.?'78   li'"cn)  r.cluded
follo.ins cateror4&a
CZttegory:         zeaorLpticn.               Allocation (W3  M.ilIi±.r2
1   Agricult-Ura. machinery and
eqjuipment                              1.3             i.334
(Actual foreigh. exchang cost
of imported goods, or 8%
cost of locally pr'ecured)
2   Fertilizdr and chemi±cal                  0.6            0.292
(the actual foreign exchange
-coat of imported goods)
3   Project :t!ansgement                      S.6            2.3e9
(Actual f*re ign exchar.ge cost
plus 20,C of locally incurred
coats)
4   Civil Work.s (w^ater supply and fae,lor
Roads)                                   0.2             C.,9
(37% of total exterdituri)
c5...... '.d'ater :.a:Lge srLt st;udy        .).9            C.7C2
( la0X o f total exernditiurt)
6   Agricultural policies 3tudy               0.2            C.25C
(10CX of total expenditure)
-   mr.-0lloog1icatea                           L
7   Sate2.ite S tidy                           _             C.;2C
oC tAl:                              C .2   '.20G



a',,-~~~~~~~~~~~~ctt|,
B. AFY   cU:: 53,'eo
Irr!gatior. ±prov". ent works                 3.9           5.311
(including oQuipmont and
*ngineers saary
(lCE6 Of total *Xp*rditurl@)
G' r.ery                                      C,'1           . 
(lC04 of tctal x:cpe,niz:ur;)
' -aLcaut ad                                 1.5             -'
:Otal:            97             ._ ;C
C. L"cal %.-nd:
Salaries c-nt*r;arts
and supporting staff,                         1.0
and operational expenses                                    __
Total:            1.0            4.450
3rand total(^+B+C)          12.3          15.750
Performance of Consultants, Suppliers and Contractors:
.oe4 1, P.ole of corsul.tants orn the Yro.Jct was 'iitted to carrying ^ut
three studies: i, .ter 'Mcnagement Study; ji) A4ricultural. F:icies
Study; and iii) SatellIs Study. These studies were conrdcted
satisfactorily except Agriculturel Policies Study for which zuality
of service was sonewhat below expectation.  Iai.ning of loc.l sta:z
by the conultants was  ini.zal.
3.:q2  cSupplier of ginnery eoquirment was not careftal -ut aking shipment:
and testing the ;roducts before shippirc.  e.*c  .nal doers  of
prefabricated steel l;ildin; az:d sc.-.e zats of press were -izs:n.:.
one 1CC :i.P. mc:or not, chacked and fourd. to te defactive; 8   c
motors wronglY 3riiped because those did no- meet the  specific.ti;n._.
This caused considera'cbe de.ly in complotaion of "h. ginnory s-nd itz
final cornmisuicnirg, w-ich could not be dcr.e t     writing of t* is
draft PCR. Sutzliar sh-o wing reluct.ncs to send ',is erecticn s.er-
visor to Co&-;rl*te t;he job as required  y7 contractual Obli;vtion.
Another s-i-lier &;layad shi:tme.nt It:erterty e    *r .ui.eret uiorset
3'SA357,338 becau3e cf not. msA.ir.g =ch -pro fis de to devaluatio.
of the currency agreed 'ipor. in the contract.  .ut finally he sup.-ied
all the equipment.



-34-
3*43   Local contractors, for the couatruction of canals and structur
in Mon5wah state far  and bundtlons for ginner7 were six to ain
mont.hs lato in completion of the *orks contracted to them.
IV. AQ2ICUiL=^tL IXrACT
G0neral:
4.01   Agricultual impact of the project during the  =pl*merntstion
period (1978 tUrough l895) was not significant because of the
fol   win  factors:  di4tw>&rSc  of sail's f*rtilit:r durin the lad
floIodi    oprrtc or13; 8a2)  r ohr7 
flood Ma^re. 1982) and subsequent three years drought (1982/83
through l584/85); late wrival ofp Ipicultural machinery; delay
in starti:g of irrigatiorn iprovemar.t ..orks; minimal use of
fertilizers and ch4micals (4C. to 50 r.rctnt 1038 than those
recome*nded by Alkod .osewcI'ft 'w.ter); traditional methods of
basin irrigatIon and etort furrois still beirg practiced by
Most of the farmers.  It is oxeOcttd tV.nt the 30,1 fertility
may be recouped ir. th4 n;xt: 5 to 7 yaro, and because of "he
propo3ad follow-up ' ' .:; Proj.jct (ra.n=*d to be implemew.ted
between 1987 throtigh 1?89) and e:'o=nsive fivtd 4-.donstrations
the farmers will adopt im.-rovd sCrivultural practices, and
use adcquato qu4a.titias of inpAts. Thcrefors, from thie year
1965-A6 onwards, tV:s:r% wil)l ^- :radual  'risse _r.5 the yields,
area croipped, agriculturr.1 yroduction and' '  cost o' ;roduction.
Yied:
4.02    Appraisal est4iates fcr yi*la3 for octh. :-;.  coanitions: i) with-
out project, and ii) with ;ro4.ct we?  too  ^ic.h -as .ay be sesn
by cooparisor. with the actuSal yilds tabulated in Table .8.
*owevcr, the actual yidlds w.ro as y;r official statistical
.data ':i.ich t rnded to defi:ta  xlal yiolds because those were
based on t - markatinx fler.'s 1;3*d for aassssing farm- income,
cooperstivos share and cron tux.



-3S-
4.03    According to appraisal yljld i=crDus the "with project
condition" for the state farm in ton.s/ha wares for tomatoes
and vegetables frca 12 to 27; melons fros 1S to 27; some
from o.a to 0.7 and fodder fro' 35 to SZ.  or th  cooporativos
yield ir.creases were: fcr cot':or. rom. 0.7 to 1.2; red and white
sorghum from 1.0 t- 1.8 and C0.6 to 1.2 respotively; T310m '
from 10 to 19 and sesame from 0.4 to 0.7.
4.04.   Actual yio1ds based or. ts.a averages of ycars 1978/79 through
1983/84 and those adop ed for the :Ri for 'Iwith ;roject"
are as follows:
Yl1ads (:o/h)
Crop         SI.ate  far?rs                Caoo;ratives
AveraT fAv       l Acvraie           Ara± -  sal .v..ra..  rPRs
Cotton     0.91        -      :.2       0.97      1.2       1.2
Tomatoes   9.80      27.0    15.0      10.30       -       18.0
Vegetables 6.2Z      27.0    15.0       5.47     19.0      12.0
water :.elon7.35     27.0    15.0      l4.40     19.0    i2.0
SwGet Kelon3.53      27.0    ".1        3.32     19.0      10.0
Sorghum
(grain) 1.05     1.C      1.2       C.72       1.0      1.0
Maize      1.39      1.5     1.5        1.39      1.5       1.5
Sesaec     0.,7      C. 0.7             0.L3      0.7      0.7
Fodder    12.22    55.C    20.,          .^'       -      18.0
Banana    24.L'3   15.      25.          -         -        -
Ot.her
rul S      .52       - t 
PC ;rields are .<:.ct:ed to be atanei ed    :r s .a1 ye.rly increases
in about seven years at x :t;1  i.-    ntaticn of theo ;rojict
in 1986.
Cronvd Areas
4.05       h.e a;raisaxl eEti:.^:e of incr-use in t;; cropped crea for
state far=s -.*is acctt 37', fr:r: 2,105 ha to 2,890 ha.  Fcr
the cooperativcs, art,aisa' . _ r.ot essu;. :Zny ir.criase in
the plan.ted are ..    d or. t.; avo r, es 1978/79 to 1983/84
increase i. tho crc.pcd er'a of 3t-.te fars *Was about 31W,
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



~36-
fron 2,105 to 2,754 ha; and that for the cooperstives was about
36*, from 6,924 ha to 9,421 ha. The ircrease in planted area
of cooperatives was partly due to the project and partly due to
lc.nd levelling under the Soviet-Yameni Project. It is expected
that after atout seven years of its cor.-letion wren the project
will be fully effactive, the area cropped will increase :bout
38  for the state fvrms and about 44<; for the cooper-t±ves.
Details of the cropped erea fcr vnrious yea3s re giver. .n Table c.
4.06    During the implement: tion there were 3cme chncres in tha cropping
pattern and percentages of croppod area of v.rious crops.  Accord.ig
to the appraisal cotton ares wCs to be dro-ped in th-e state farms
but it was still covering about 76 of the total arxa.  Cther
changes in the state farms included iitrcduction of other fruits
(papaya, guava and custard flruit) in a.bout 3  (60 ha) of the &rea.
Tomatoes cultivation was reduced froo 5C% to about 1C%, but the
fodder area increased from 253  to 6a%.  in tlhe ccopera.tives as
per ap;raisal vegetables and fodder were not supposed to be
planted, but actually those were growr. ir. eabout 505 of th.c arG.
Tomatoes were introduced ir. the cooperatives boc-use of setting
up a tomataco paste factory in the project area. .Cotton cultivated
crea reduced fro. 6E05 to about 2.5, because of drought, unattractivo
sale price tnd heavy crop tax.
PRODUCTICN7:
4.07     3ecause of lower yields average over2'. troductior. (state farma
plus cooperatives) durirn  t^.e rroject i.vlernontation teriod was
about 2T'S less thar. that conte-.13ated in the a-rraizal (with project).
However, it is expected t4sat wqit'.:in thoe next 6 tc 7 years the
situation will imrrove, hctinr  th-at the soi"s fertility may be
regained and the ftrs.rs will adc't i...roved azricultural practices
and ma;e adacuate -.nd -ro-&r use o  inrpts.  C&er:all production
will then be abohut 23,' mcre thanr. thi a:.rai3sa`&.  Fodder will increase
by 65%.  Productior. of cotton, legetabl.s and frits -.ill be al:ncst
the saa'.e as of appra-s3al.  u.b  th.- production of other crops as
compared to the appraisal will be lesser: tomatoes l52', -elor.s 455
sorgham (grair.) 24. and -aize 4LS".  Details of the rroduction



du;ring tho ;rojeot implementation period are  riven in 'able 10. A
brief comparison of overall production (statt farms plu3 cooperatives)
is s.hown, bolow and its detais are given in Table  1.
Froduction Comrairson - with :ro4eft ;Ce.4ticm
(:4stric Tons)
Av@rI-s      --,-cted by    .Anti-        Percretage
c. 19::/79    1992/95          cipated    Difference
Cr. r           throu4h 53/84                      in          (21 - (3)
(1)         ~~~(2)        -r*l
(3)          (4)
Cotton                ',671           3,6C0            3,600       Same
ToMrtOes              6,70          15,6C0           17,550    (-1J.)
Vegetables            3,159          10, 80C          1 C,eOC       Same
.later               2 3:o.  203-)    4,O50)          11, Cc)   (-4i')
Sweet  lo               A             2,20          )               -
Sorghum (Qrain)       '.LI428         1,36C            2,460    (-2:)
:iaize                1,053           1 350             2,275    (-41')
Sesame                  155             '75               175      SaLe
Todler              54,348           81,0co           49,o10C    (.6=e)
Tobacco                  63.             40               -
Banana                  782)          2,250)              -  )
Other 7ruits            73c)            7503           3.11      (-5:)
otal:           72,992         123,675           ic0, 615
1.     Value of rzouction:
4.^    Stare ?.s:    .bWCUt 7 ,eaS  aft3  the ;u>:           .ti:   of thi'r
troiect (1986), the ecor.cmic value (1977) of rroduction :fr :`.e
state farms :!Ai11 rincrease from YM28.8,548 in ;.7/?'. to =5' 91,10
in lc!'j'3 (about 209C,' ir.crease).   '.. i,.creasc ir. fin.ncinl rirces
during th.e T.eriod     'ce about 2&3,-', fron Y`U 25 0350 in 1977/78 to
Y1,070.C  r. 19cc,  ...
4. 9   Coccer a ves:  h!:lue of                - du*tion fcr cc  eritivs (t 19'7)
econromic ;rica)   11 increase fror i1.306.107 in '77/7; to
Y.D1,705,17C in 1992/92 (sbout ,7.' increase).         f-a ir.ncialg  alu&e
of  roduc';ion  .:ill inr.-aea  ;oe'o Y.D40,5CO in 1577/73 to Y.D1,"45,625
in ;992/93 tirn.ease o  e.'ou: 51:f).



-38-
4.10    Wadi Tuban (tat   as + Oooprativs):
Value of productiorn (1977 cezomia price) will increa"s from
Y.D1,3?4,665 in 1977,78 to Y.D2,596,280 in 19W2/,s3 (about 8$9
increase). rTh4 f'in.ial value of rroduction will increase
fbom Y.D1t,2205M5  i.. '97?/72 to Y.D2,016,125 in l^92/93 (about
1045 incr"sa!.



zCC;~:.z St ATE c;R=:
3.01    It is unfortunate that there was no monitoring unit xith the projoet
to follow up tho project i!plementation and to koop records of the
agricultural impact of the project.  Vicrefore, the data available
for evaluation are those peparod by the Deartment of Placing and
Statistics of tho Ministry of AWiculture and Agrarian Rtform.
Such data or. Wgricultural production for '"adi T?b&a during the
period from 1977/78 to 1383/84 (the poriod for ohick data is
available) s!how tremcrdous f2ouctuations and distortions which
make them unuitahl  directly for estimating the rate of roturu.
Many factors are responsible for this.  The ,roject implementation
was delayed.  The beginning of ths impleentation of agricultural
activities (procuremant of chemical fortilizer3 mainly for tho
spate area,) was in 1979/80 and its distributior. was in 1980/dl.
The beginning of irrigation i:provr.imnt wiorke (mpLi.?y for state
farms) was in 1982.  The 1981/82 aricultural year was an abnormal
s seasor. because of the very high floods, .7hich increesed the cropped
area from 11,000 he., in 1980/81 to 21,CCO h,3 in l961/82, as shown
in the following table. This wias fol1ow-.d by years of drought
and the consequent decline in tho cropped ore.  Similar pattern
was indicated for yield per hectare.
3.02   Cropped Area in 'Wadi TubJln:
Year        Cooper-ctives     3t;tc ?rms            -7a t a I
1977/78       692L4              937                 -06
1978/79       7211              Z'4                   -24
1979/80        7132              2221
1980/81       8701               c0::
1981/82      18044              31 1 _' .
1982/83      12736              2713
1983/84      10287              2376               L2'63
j.03    Accordingly the comr;-.-i3cr. of dst:* fer 1977/78 -r.d 1i83/'4 for
evaluating the agricultural impact of th. r.rcj1ct will be inayprz;-
riate and misleading.  7.he agricuiutural produetlon ;vies fluctuating
and so had been the valua of production- (rt the 1977 ccr.strant
economic pricos for aLicultural pro&tet3) as t -uTl!td below:-



.4C-
5.04    alue of  cpetraifoe:ction ir. ';aii %b=.
at 1977 Econotic Frices
(YtDC0O)
Year            Coo:er2tiv6s       Statt  r-trna                Titl
1977/78            1C86.1            288.5                      1374.6
1978/79              956.4           213,                       1' 74.7
1979/80              53L       2     203.7                      1227.9
l9Gc/al              337.8           23C0.2                     iC68.o
1981/22            1097.L            312.a                      141C.2
1982/83            1094.8            347,0 .'422.7
19E3/!4              814.2           232.0                      1046.2
5.C5   Alternrtive assumptions wersr made to Makce 3cr.e estizzates for the
rate of return for the project.  ';ithin ter. years fror now, after
land recovery from levelling operations, and beyond these abnormal
years of exc;as  floods end droughts, an.d if the govar=ent of
P.D.R.Y. ircreases the package sf inputs -n-d trpcticis racorimended
by Al-Kod Research Contar, the crptred area is e:xtect6d to increase
by about 43' and yield per hectart would in.crease upto about 80K
of that of Al Kod for the various cror,s.
3ased on t:.esa assuz:ptior.s, and using the 1977 ccr.star.t ecconoic
.rzd financial prices, with t.h  period 1977/78 - 193/3/4 &3 e base,
the rates of return w.uld be:-
Zconomic Rate of Retur
ir.ar.cia-l R:t of Rit-urn
:f 1977/78-1980/81 period was used as a SCse, t.:* rates ,tould be:
Sconomic Rate of Rteturn'
Financial Rate cf .t!;rn.       21
If the original investmer.t costa wr.ich hvi nr,c direct effect to
increisin. agriciatural producticr., ii%* wat-;,r    -',t ';;atLr
mna;gez.ent, study, a-ricultu-ral pG  iciz.3tu9,  :. eind   s33'.1lte
study are excluded fron tht czlcul-.ticns of thecononic rate cf
return, it would amount to l1-leZ; which s.' ircr ,s  furthur
if the investments of the prcpcstd follow-u; -rrJect (Z'p:rstion
and M4aintenrance during the years 1967 thrcugh 1? 9)  e. xcluded.



-41-
VI    INSTITTIONAL PEa7R0ENM?CZ A^!D DEVELOPW.-rT:
AEsicultuzal Extensior Service,  ahe.l.
6.01   Extension service in tahoj was officially set up in 1980 under
the Research and Exten3403 Department whiih was created within
?4A in 1979.  During the first two years the service wcs short.
of staff and facilities. The project was instrumented to strengthen
and upgrate the Extonsion Service. With the arrival of Project's
extension experts in N1ovember 1979 and February 1982, addition of
9 local agriculture E'radua. s in 1981, and 23 technical asistants
the extension service became quite effective. Extension equipment
and materiae  includi:: aur.io-visual equipment procured under the
project helped to train local extension agents and farmers. Four
new sections were set up namely: i) crop production; ii) Information;
iii) Training, and i9r) :leaft Protection. Within the new frame of
extension set up it wa  possible to fuliill project's obligation
in backstopping the extension service and transfer of technology
to farmers. But after rhe departure of the last extension expert
in June 1983, and tran fer of trained extension agents to other
places the offectiven'ss of the ExteaAi n service at Lvl'oj was
affected. Research irried out at Al-Kod Research C#ntar could
not be transferred a -field level in the project area.  Again
there is a need to a- er.gthen the Lahej Extension Service for
extensive demonstra:0on of 4-proved agricultural practices and
training of the fa- ers to i?plement new techniques of irrigation.
DTDB and Coordina : -^ ne:
6.02   Initially projec: :.e?..ntation was the respor.sbility of Delta
Tuban Developmen: Boazi (DTDE), the successor of Lahej Agric-
cultural Develozmen: :card.  Later by an amendenet made by the
Government in t:se ;ee0opment Credit Asreement DTrJ3 was replaced
by MAAR, and to mon±:cr project implementation a coordiration
committee was formed. This committee comprises of senior officia'.
of MMAR (Deputy Minister as Its chairman), retresentatives of
Lahej Government, some party members and project management.
The committee had beer hunctioning quite effectively by re5ular
periodic review meetings held bi-monthly or quarterly. Such
comittee will be for any future project in the region.



'42.
6.03    Other institution generated by the project is operation ad
maintenaceo proposed to be set up within DflE with branches
in state forms and cooperativ*s.
Inter-Asencies Coordination:
6.04    An intended in the appraisal certain activities which required
Eoordination with other agencies wore carried out smoothly and
satisfactorily with full cooperation of the conecrned agencies.
These includod PWD for feeder roads, PWC for domostic water
supply for six villages, N1CHT and PASC for procuroment of
equipment and inputs, MRS for renting of agriultbral equipment,
Al-Kod Research Conter for participation in field demonstrations
and experimental programmes.
6.O5    Concerned authorities of central government  aSP and ministry
of plaining gave active and full support to the project, as
evidbnced by financing of cost overrun of the order of T1S%3.45
million Y.Dl.l8 million).
6.06    The consulting firms: Ground 'later Corsultnats satisfactorily
completed the -ater management study; and ULG carried out the
agricultural prices study. The Satellite study was implemented
under the gutd.nce of the planning resource unit of the World
Bas.  These firms cocrdirated woll with the project.
VII.    LESSONS LER:
7.01    The lessons learned 9re as foU.cws:-
1.  There were rome wet'.3esses  rn prciect preparation,
which were compounded during troject imrlesentation
by the probleas crrising :ro= t he shortage of trained
counterparts, de;ia's in the srriv,l of machinery srd
equipment, difficulties in rocruiting and fielding of
project uniager and some ex,erts, shortage of con:ractcrs
in project are     dnfiociircies in infra-strcte.re.



43-               a
2.   Major design changes, which say setback the
completion target of t he project, should bo
avoided.
3.   For the best ut±iatci  of all the necessary
facili;ios like housing, trars.porstion, furnished
office accor=odation, wgter sup;ly, electricity
and telepyhen   Ic., shculd be arranged b#fore
the arriva: of  xpertr.  Prolimisry civil works
like project office, shed, workshoe, stores,
access road, off'±co  quiptert and supplies etc.
should also be coepleted beforehand..
4.   Project Manager (74) cr Chief TeEhnical Adviser.
(TA) should be scheduled to arrive at the project
first of all. Preferably MP may be called about
6 months earlier thnn tht other ox;erts to set up
the office, procuL-e necessary transport, office
equipment and supplies.
5.   Tc determine the type, capacity and suitability
of the equipment to suit the local conditions
and to prp;are the bid documents, the services
of a consaultant for short duration (2 m.onths or so) may
be provided in the budget. After calling ICB,
bids further procurem*ent formalities m.ay be taken
care of by the F..  Arrival of  Zachinery  xpert
should bc scheduled wher. the shipm.ent is ex-ected
to arrive at the roject.
6.    In case of any un-anticipated change in project,
implementation of the schedule for arrival of
export3 should be r?difijd accordi.ngly.



.444.
7.   Stay of the oxperts ct the prcject may be spread to
suit the impleuentcticn time of the respective descipline.
If only short dur&tion intermitteat presence of the
expert needed then pref*rc-bly provision for a consultant
may be made.
8.   Appraisal list of equit;nent may be regarded just as a
piide for costing this comVonent. The actual type,
capacity, 'crard t.:c. to suit  he Local condition may
be determined by the ;roject   management and discussed
with all the concarred agencies perticulerly XRS9 before
procurement.
9g    After arrival of the project manager ar. inception report
slhould be ;retared within three  otnths and d_3cugUbed
with &ll the concerned agerciea.  if any delay in
implementation or extension of completion time is
anticipated, tho zrcject cost astimates must be modified
and additional frnds if needed should be committed by
the funding agencie3.
10.   Provision fcr a. consultant shOuld be made for periodic
monitorin; crd evaluation of the project implementation
and to daterminr  the trends of vzricaltural and
institutiona- im- L-'Ct s
11.   Any resiurch o  erried out at Al-Kod Research Centre
should be d-.¶tns:ratad at field lerel with farmers
partici -2t_5r.
12.   More emphasis should be given to the in-service training
of ciunter-erts, and local oersonrel.  The duration o---__
overdeas trainin- shouild be limited to 12 months for
tbe construction orien.ted vroJects.
13.  If implemer.tatior. teriod is anticipated to be  .ore
than four or five years the =roect should be -hased out.
14.  Aerial ;hotos,A  --rgp.hic ar.d soil survey maps of the
project area should be Vrepared nuch earlier than
commencement of the project.



.4g.
VIIl.   SPCIA  ISS
8.01    Duri:ng the projc; implomentation it was found that there were
certain constraints ;rn±h inhibit the impact of projoct iavest-
monts not or.y of  Ta;4  *ban but other similar projects a  woll,
and these nood to bo resolvod at rational lovel,. Theso relate
to production planning, prcduceor prices, inputs supply, sub-
sidies, taxation, marketing policies and incentivso to farmers.
To rosolve some off "0s3 recommendations of tL5 Consultants
(as contained in Ag-icultu,ral Policies Study carried out under
the project; and Y:oposals of World  eank's Agriculturul Policy
Memorandum - Report '!o.4CC6-YDR of September 1982) were under
consideration of the Sovernment.
On-Lending Aemontsa:
8.02  Short and medium term loan agreements between NEY and MIS
Cooporatives, and stato farms wero still swaitcd;    Sd far
RS had signed loan agree-=rt with NBY for the equipment costing
UJ0241,134 (UD82,709); and another asro*eent was expected $oar.
IX.  Asssment o FPrclct
9.01  Main objective of the project (increase in production of
vegotablest fruits, cere,*s, cotton, fodder .and tebacco) was
only partly acconplished by the completion of infra-structure
and irrigation works.  n11 benefits will be dorived when the
faromers will adopt the i=prov9d agricultural yrectices; and
are train*ed  o moaie efffcient use of water an.d use adequite
quantities of inputs; ard the fortility of the soil (which
was disturbed due to l&nd levelling oporttions) is regainec.
by cultivation and spite; and plant diseases are controlled.
Farmers e**= receytive to the improved irrigation methods
(long furrows. r-m-a  e.rips).  Sut it will b* a long way
when they w4ll roal-ly cdoptt tho new ttchniqu:s.  'heey still
practice old  sraditiocnl methods (small b3sns gnd short
furrows wh'ch weoto 20 to 254  of arable land in making
Od



.46.
numorous bunds and ditches. Zxtensive training and active
prticipation of fsrzera in the fiold demonstration programos
for two to three years is nadod. dertility of soil is
expected to be r,couped in about 6 to 7 years of cultivation
and use of additional fortilizers.
9.02    Cr,eration and MIaintanrace (0& ") at presaet is nor-existent
at central and farm levels and %hare is no budget provision
for it.  Without proper   s ", thk  compl-teddworks may
4etoriorate in 5 to 6 y-ars rathar than 3  years ls conteplated
:a appraisal.  'hero is an urgent ne*d to sat up 2n C 5 M
orgacisation.
9-03    ;f burind pipe distribution system could be adopted, as ariginall7
planned for the project, it tould have saved cnagls construction
time by about two years.
X.  FOLLOW-UP  P,J- -CTS:
10.01     The experience of the 'Iadi 'Nban Arricultural Devolopment Froject
shows that after hugo investment in roshaping and enlarging
plots, land levelling and irrigation improvement works, still
labour intensive and inefficient agricultural practices persist.
Haphazard operation and lack of maintenance (as evidenced in
the completed state farms which were handed over one or two years
ago) will result in rapid dtterioration ef the completed works
(useful life may reduco rom 35 to 5 or 6 years). To overcome
thia, a countrywide effort is required to deovloy r±delinas &nd
assist farcers and fsrm maasers in the introduction operation
and maintenance procedures of thu farm irrigation systams. Such
effort should be cut under the guidance of the Irrigation
Department which, wdith the establishment of an Operatzion and
Maintenance Section, would provide cintinuing support to farmars.
0 & H will be a continuing process but its iriticl ;h&3 is prop&Bad
to be three years fcr axt*asivt domcnstratiors and trnin±ng.  it
is estimated to C03t US% 1.3 millior.. Details of the proposed
0 & M are di3cUssed in Ann*x 4.



.47-
Strentheninc Irrication t:arent
10.02  Tho major need of the country is to obtain sef'-sufficiency in
fruits, vegetables and cersals; and to increase agricultusal
exports (cotton and tobacco). Investment priorities are irripction
schemes, farm mechanization, and a;plied resterch for improved
agricultural practices.   In the revised second five yewr plan
l9g1-85) the r-DMY Gove*nm=nt allocated as much as 7C), of the total
development budget in the agricultural sGctor. Cn-going projects
and new programme. have greatly ir.tensified the need for strengthening
the Irrigation Deprtment to do overall pianning;coordin3te diffor.nt
activities; monitcr and backatopping the impl4mentation of various
projects. Present staff, equipment and facilities available are
insufficient to fulfill the i-creased obligations of the &e;e.z'tm*zt.
Experienced oxperts are needed for extensive training of tho local
personnel in tho fields of irrigation planning; ddsign, water
resources, hydrology/meteorology, data processing/analysis and
computtr programming, and to set up an 0 G   1.1 Sectior in tho
Irrigatioh Department. Details of proposed strengthening are
discussed in Annex 4. Four oxyorts will be needed for 2 to 3
years. Estimated eost for foreign component is VS$1.4 million.
Wadi Khair Mcten3ion and Al-Tha'al:.b Cooterative:
10.03  Proposed extension of'4i Khair sevd Troductcn. state farm
(not area 69.4 ha); and trovision oI a ;roundwiazr distribution
system and roads for a coonaratie in Al-Th:'  A. (net arza aocut
250 ha) as discussed ir "';adi -ubar. aer :anr.ent  3tu4r .
July 1981, conducted by the G;ound ':atar  onzsul:snts" should be
seriously considered.  T-.e study jhows that groundwater is
availablo to develop thess ?.reas totJall:r3g about 320 ha.
A consultart needs to bo hired for acut three months to prepare
the detailed proposel.



-48-
X1.  BANK MQP3M4ACE:
11.01. IDA supervision missions pericdic visits, discussions an various
aspoets, technical sugpstions and monitoring of proress had been
very helpful and effective. It contributed substantially to the
satisfactory implementation of the project. Concerned agicultural
and disburseoent divisions at Lnks headquarter always took prompt
actions on related matters, which intensified project's effectiveness.
11.02   Banks suggestion and epkhasis to entrust construction of civil works
to local cortractors was cuite useful. It hel;ed to boost-up the
progess of irriS*-.tion 4--rovemnt -works.
11.03,  Appraisal estiMat93 of yields for various crops for stata farms
and cooperatives bott for "without project" and "with project"
conditions were 70 to 80 percent higher than than the maximum
yielda which could be accomplished in the experimental plots of
Al-Kod Reaearch Center.  Compared toerarge actual yields appraizel
eatimates were 3 to 4 times hi$her for tomatoes, vegetables ard
melons as shown in Table 8 (Arnex 1). Also appraisal's estimate
of dist': bance of soil's fertility due to the Land levelling
operations.
U1.04    Spate improvement works needed in fivo of the state farms
(1245 ha) were not identified and provided in appraisal's cost
estimates. These works were necessary becauso those farms need
supplemental irrigation water from spat. to meet crop water
requirements.  T:o4u- dependancy on spate varies from 20 to 36
pereant. To corplete these works satisfactorily about US0l.0
millicn was needed which could be obtained from IDA or AF:-SD.



- 49 -
W.lZI Tw3BA   AGAICULT"     DMVUOEM-:1T FS.'JECT
ANNEX I - TABLES
TABLE  CF  CCUMTEMS
Tb.bl  1:   Wadi TI'uban Agricultural Developrcent Projsct
Su=ary Zmplementrtions (included ir. main report
at tho end of su=ary)
T:.ble 2:   List of :'.ach4r.ry and Equipment
Table 3:   Ferti).izers/Chem,icals-Distributicr. 1979-198L4
Table 4:   rzttension Servi^e - s:-ort Training courses ar.d seminars
Table 5:   Total 'dater Requirements of th.e crops grown or car. be
grown4 in the Project ,re.
Table 6:   Rates Pett,, contract3 Withv rroj,ect's labour groups
Table 7:   Constructior. of :rriptior .,F rka - P-gress as of
Dececber !S85.
Table 8:   Crops yields - state far=s and Cooteratives
Table 9:   Cropped hrea - state farms and cocyeratives
(1977/78 to 1983/84).
Table 10:  Cropped Area - State Farms and C-uneratives
(i977/78 to 1983/84).
Table 11:  Production - State Farms and Cooperatives (1?77/78
to 1983/84)



Tablo 2:        , *                            List of abtchinery end IEuiient
Sbhet 2 of 9j
Itm                         gatiated Apprainal             Actual CIF Aden Cost       m a_erTed/0old to:
-41)                      Cost (US$ Ilssand)                (U   TbUsWA-)
(2)                          (3)
unit    Total          W/A           Unit Total                    cost 
Cost    Cout           Appl.11D.     Cost Coat                     7bnugD  _
I. IDA Credit 786-YD
A.1rrigation D.WvsloIent:
*Iamps v:rticol             10   6.090  60.900
Wotors - 30 lI'             16   I.710  27.800
- (k Is'              8   2.610  20.900
b.suml Wll Turbine pmpu                               NAA(73)   10      j   55,530 st
Stat-D.I to SLrt.r                                NAak(?3)   1O      FA 1FIw   tt
star-D,: Lum Start*:a 3 10 
shegirt 2   11.10
3kuAbid  4   22.2)2
N1_.sm    3   16AW
b iai 1    5.55
Trtawofrm:rz;              24    3.710  90.500
Niectricul *'ittingr                    10lO.kJ0 
mobil: tiorkahop                                      NAAR(27)   1  31.103  31.703  1M        1    n.17. 
1)iA uith Tilt Dozer                                  HAAR(55)   2  65.933 129.866
DB-lulleiozeru                                        .AR(75)   I  32 .6P0 L30.680
Uorlhkublh &quipmnt                                   1AAR(76) 1 set 11.3-85 11.385
Gab iusu;                                             HAAR(65)               68.0o2 V.?ieng P.    68.OW
30% 500                            ^27.21fi              M:26 
11. ArriZ.alslral DN.-:doism mat:
th*ul fructara (V&) lii') 11    10.005  40.20         HAAR(4,')  20   '/.900 158.000  MA    16  326.A
*siYX  imArt; Riomanin                                                                ast.Dept. I    7.9OD
Trac toris                                1(58)                   2.321 Pltj.rot.
NAAR(59)               25.207  Wojent 1    7.900
WitevI Trwcor"(60-70 in.)                            NHM(72)  10   9.3!? 93-YO               10    ".D
Wnisa Tractor witL  cont
1ksaur (7o4b  UP)                               NAM(72)   2   31ftd5 27670
"b.:1 Trractor (go0-no U,)                            UMB72)   2  19..56  39.122 S31b_        1   I9-6i



Table 2:  *                              List of iqdhinery and Euiuwment
shoot 3of 9
(1)     (2)                                'NJ                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(10
Tine Tillers                                              mAAIR(72)  10  o.963   9.630   mmS   10  9.630
Seeder Attachments                    n                              2n  1.204  24.080   MRs   20 24.060
Post Hole Digger                                                      2  1.552   3.104    Ms    2  3.101
Utility bilade                                                        5  1.241    6.205   MRS    5  6.205
Tool Bar (Border Di&gc)                                               3  1.213   3.639   MM        3  3.639
Sub-Soile r                                                           2  0.J55   0.910   MRs    2  0.910
lool lar (Inter Row Culti-
vator)                                                2  2.9-43   5.886   ms    2  5.886
Tool Currier (Bud ShIaper)                                            1  3.456   3.456   hiS       1  3.056
Pla1nter                                                              2  1.605   3.210    MRS   2  3.210
AdjutLmeunt                                                                        1.21i   mRS         1.218
KAiA(72)              351.345
Lurd Planner              10  4.210   42.100              MAAR(29)    3  4-379  13.137   Honaorwb 1 4.379
Lund Leveller                                             14hAR(29)   3 14.950  14.850   W.khlir  1 4.379
PM:[O-      9.900
W.lhoir 1 4.950
Hydraulic Scruipr                                         HA*R(29)   2  4.855   9.710
Ditchuu                    6  2.033   12.200              MAAR(29)   2  1.300   2.600   ftt.Dqpt.2 2.6W2
40.29
Moldboard Eougish
(2 Furrows)        30  1.013   30.400              HAAR(32)  13  1.019   13.24?  NMM         2 122.22
Ut.Dept.l 1.309
(3 Fbrrows)                                        MAAR(32)   6  1.44?   8.682    U:B,    21 1 :
(Reversible)                                       HAAR(32)   2  3.076   6.152   Nis         2 6.I52
Tippiw6 Traileru          10  2.030   209,300             MAAR(32)  13  1.936  25.i68   M           9 17 93
Mujahed 1 1.9%6



Table 2:                                  List of t!ehiheVy and FAwiuwnt
sheut l of 9
(1)                             (2)                      (3)                                    (4)
rbrage Hlarvestor         6    3.617    21.700        MAAR(32) 2:.    ".652    5.304    hujabod    1    2.652
Forage Wagon              6    2.317    13.900 0                2      6.377   12.754    Hujahed    1    6.37?
Thresher                                                of      2       7.723   15.446    w.Uaeir    1    7.723
Gyro Spinners Broadcaster 6    1.16?      .000n                 6      0.340    2.040    MRS.        5    1.700
Gyro Field Sprayers      60    1./4o0  1041.4o00               10       1.019   10.190    Htdhraut  3    3.057
Nonaah   1    1.019
Plant Prd.
Project    5    5.095
Ext.Dept.  1    1.019
Fionna Seed Drill                                               2      2.143   4.286    HkS          1   2.143
_Morarah   1    2.143
103.269
Ditc Plough - 2 Disc      6    2.467   14.800        MAAR(38)  10      0.975   9.750      MRS        9    8.775    @
Ext.Dept. 1    0.'7I5
Disc J'louigia - 3 Di:;c                                        6       1.225   7/.350  HltS         2    2.450
Mujahed    1    1.225
Ext .Dept. 1    1.225
Cultivator (Tyne)        eo    o.87o   i?.4os                  10     o0.763    .630      NM        10   17?6"
Chisel Ploughl           10    1.160   11.600                  12      1.324  15.88       MRS       10   13.20
Ext.Dept. 1    1.324
Offset Disc ltarrow                                             6      2.435  14.610      "u         6   IA.610
Ridgeru                    6    1.017    6.100                   7      3.095  21.65$5    MRS         2    6.190
Seed Drill                6    4.o66   24.4oo          s        2      6.447  12.894      Aonasrah   1    6.44?
MRS        1    6.447



Table 2:      'M''C'" '                                                                                     of
Ii)              (2)                                (3)                         (4)
Planterd         6    4.783     28.700        MAR(38)   3   2.004    6.0o2       kxtt.Dept.  1      2004
W.Khair     1      2.00*
MRS         1      2.(04
Cotton stalk Puller                                      I1  9.652     9.652      Ext.Dept.  1      9.652
Maize Shieller                                            1  1.358      1.358    Hujahed      1     1.38
I3aler (Pickup)  3    5.400      16.200
Stalk slaredder   6   2.467      14.80o
Mower/Conditioner6    4.785      28.700
SpLare Parts                    163.000      HAAR(44)         1.768
Sub-Total.                In? - (m.o                             /89.006
Contingencies             . ft 7.3
Total ( "bi"' IDA)       10,O?6.600                             789.oo6                                    b
C. Project Hanagoment:
Trunuportayion
vuhicle; (4 WD):MAB
4  10.150    I.u6(XJ     HAAR(20)   2    8.993   17.956
(if W):
SWB   4  6.3715     25.500         t        5    6.93    34.650
52.636
Pick-up truck                                t         1   5.206      5.206
Motor Cycleis   21  0.8/1       18.300        "(37)   21   o.847    17.787
Spare Parts                     16.800       of                       4.900
22.687



?uble 2t                                                                                   b *  "'s6t 9 f
(1)                ~~~~~(2)                      (3)                       (
&arvq Squidmeut:
_To                                          N(9)                5733
*- Iqipnt                                    118)               11.3O1
Uxtnaion 3qijmnt                       7.200      OA 26)             67.1511      ht.Dept.
*ppUlies and Material (upto Ag.195)                                  o35.616
*rarture &P. (mpto Aupant 1985)                                      *52.666
lub-Ibtal  i0S.400                         193.999
Contingencies (C-IDA)      6.1.0                           -
Tot.a C (IDA)            319.800                         193.999
* Nte:   m IDN Credit 768-VI,, C.t.ouy 3



bhl 2i         ' *bt *Mc-lw -*  a t St 
(1                           (2)                                 (3),
D. Rural Wate hu1y:
- no                  1   bojl        10.10.
fmcks (6 ton)          1   i8.90D    18.900
Spare Parts (20)                       5
Pampa (EIectric)
mhsersbl. with motors 2   l-.j00    29.00
1a   ialut. Pl         1 an5t0 
Npas (ease" 
Pipes (6) MA fitti                    30O
1qlpments                                16)                  >X.92
*bZi VWACrpJ6steriel/
sIpi pmsnta                             K&AE(2)               20.61
'hbli W.Corpj4sterial/
qmimmta                                 NAAIII(*1)             6.829
VWblic W.Carp.Materisl/
*    JupCants 1AA.). 2OD g.62
IS".9o                             9!00



lir   dri        i }~i[?~ 
.~~~~~                    N     £1 
_~ ~~i[UiI                    if    sss       
w ~ ~ I 1N11'1^H1-Ww      
fi~ ~ ~ ~~~j X2     NXaX 
i § i ;§ 1 X ; N  @ u i W t i | E 



Table 2:                                    l.s c- FachAne   n       uipmcnl
Mhet 9 of 9
(1)                           (2)                      (3)                                 (I)
Precast Plant
(olements/hollowblocka                                                            201d.903
Spare Parts                                                                             2.932
Spare Parts                                                                             0.620
Spar. Parts                                                         26                  3.586
Compaction Roller                                                    5   2   23.814    67.628
Sparo Parta                                                         10                  2.251
Sub-Total (II-A)                                        2,31B.300                  i-327-T >
Contingdncies                                             280.700                     _
Total (II-A)                                          2,599.000                   1,327.?55
B. Agrioultural Develoixent: 
(Arub iiUnUd
C. Project Hanagement
(Arab RI nd)
Offico Equipment                                           17100  1                    12.995
6                   0.698
20                   1.932
Sub-Total (I1-C)                                       -VIi- l. 1 3
D. Rurul Water Supiply Arab friind
Total (AiDiCC+D- IDA)                                   1,604.800                   1,503.266
Total (AWB,oCD- ARAB FUND)                              2,616.6400
Total IDA+Arab fbnd)                                    4,221.200                   29546.
Total (A-IDA..AFESD)                                      9D50                       st-7
Total (B-IDA,AFESD                                      2l903.500                   1754.9710
Total tB-ID2hAFESD                       ~~~1,026.600                  789.oo6
Total (C-IDA+AFNSD)                                       12.200                      209.624
Total (D-IDA+AFESD)                                       158.900                      93 045
Grand Total (AtlGC+D)                                   ,221.200                    21846.616
(IDA iAFE-ND) 



- 5-
able 3               .DI:SA TJL   - F.itiliser/Chemioals
Disttbution (1979-1984 - (fwwy)
Sheet 1 of 4
D i a t r L b u t 1 o a
Fetilize/ 
Chaical               A. State fars          .Cooperatives  Total  (A+B)
Distrib-   Used    istilb U    Distrib-    Used
uted               uted      U      tsed        w~
Ursa       Sack         8294       3349     4827     4091   13121      9439
ripple
Super-t ~"~   *         5152       3974      109       81    5261      4055
phosphate
Sevin      kg.           197        .17     1855     1480    2052      1599
Zenit      kg.          1026        466      837      621    1863      1087
Malathion  Lts.           213       233      247        73    2266      311
Lebacid    Ltr.         1496                1976     1041    3472      2257
Rogor      Ltr.         1001       -841     7643     6526    8644      7367
Deptrix    4G.             16        U      6562     6494    6578      6505.'
Carbrial  KG.           2118       1868     2553     1871    46?1      3739
Ba-Sudeen Gl.              11         1       34        12      45       13
Sa7gona    G1.           106         75      200      100      306      175
Dicldrin   Kg             35         10       54       51       89       61
Novacron   Ltr.          105        212     1582     1071    1687      1283
D.D.T.    Ltr.            25         -        -        -        25      -
Acettalio  Ltr.           68         66       15       14       83       80
Pwrfoctuin Ltr.           -          -      2947     1902    2947      1902
Gardona    Kg.             98        93      403      147      S4C      242
Superacide Carton          -          4       20        1       20        5
:4mw.'s    Ton          36r0       3600       _        _     3600      36co
Note: For dotails see Tables VIII and Table IX of Projects Ar=nal
Progroes Report (lot Jamiary to 31 December, 1984)



.b*le 3:       DUETA IURAN - Fertilizere/Chemicals Distribution (1979-#)
Total State Frms + Cooperatives                             Sheet 2 of 4
Tr tilizee                                                    Distrihlntion
chroicadn      Unit      I 'MW/HU    1950w/isi      1981/82  1i      t__/83           1_8-1TAL
D   II    D       U       D    U         V      UI)                 U        D         U
UrIe            Sack     1283 983  369  2034    1#446  9415   3001   2873           3700    2P06      131V1   9139
Tri e1n
,ki.luo.n uivatf   Sack
5Ckqnosuhate   3e  53  53'  840   310  321  241.   1841   1695     P 7-VI,    14*51   5261   I4055
Scyin           kg        3&82  09  122   117        536  536    284.   284 5.Y8              457      2052    1597
Zenib           kr.       477 261   83    50         454          1479    237        3Y0      111      1863  I187
* nlotion       Ltr.       54  81    11    -          -    -       164  .150          4        Bo       2v6    311
LbaJcii         Lb.   1195 1024  26    2.11          68 411    796          67      (665      11*4     3472   2257
or-0.        Ltr.      02  25.5  3575  3093       205  174   1223         8       339     2987      8644    7367
Doitrix         kg       12    95  392    366        258  237   3288   3-'77       2530      2330      65Y8   6505
hbrin1          kg      1025   89   125   58         594  594   1757   1363         1170      88'      46(1   3739
-udeen          C1.       11     1   -    -            7   -        15       8        12        5        45.     13
8qkon           01.       -      4   35    5         262  161        5       5       -          -      306      175
Dieldrin         kg.      10   10    -    -           14   11       -       -        65        40       89       61
Uboacron        l.tr.     65   25   72   27          2o   164   1280   1067         -          -       1687   1283
D.D.T.           M.tr.     -    -   25    -                  -      -       -        -         -         25      -
Actollic        Ltr.       -    -   10   10           31   30       42     28       -          12        83      80
eect;in         Ltr.       -    - 1470  425           -    -    1477   1477         -          -       2947   1902
Owdonv          Kg.        -     -    -   -          201   108    176    124        123        10       500    242
Owrdun           kr.*      -    -    -   -            20     1      -       -        -          4        20       5
8.jracide         rton     -    -    -    -           20    1       -       _        _                   20       5
I_re            Ton        -    -           -          -          3600  36C0         -           -     3600   3600
S  .  *                              ,  _l



t1i@ 3:                      DDITA  BN - Fertilizers/Cheuicals Distribution (1979-84)
STATE FARS                                             Sheet 3 of 4
-.tiliwe  Unit  Distribu tion
ntiltterst         Unit
1979/80        1980/81         1981/82       1982/83   1983/84      Total
D -            D U            D VU            D     U   D      U   D       U
Ures                Sock (50kb)             720    4?v       3161   1543.   54F8    433     ]937  :1817  198  1138  8294  .5354
Twiple              i8ack                   510    3-10       840    310    Z8(U    226     1823  167/ 19t2'  1451  5152  39/7
Super Fhophate       Sack 50 kg.
Sevin                kg                                         5      -      4       4                   188   113   197   11'
Zenib                kg                     237      35        13     12    183     183      275   125   318    93  1026   46(
NWdathon             Ltr.                     47      8         4      -                     1611  150      4    80   21.9  231
* Lmycid              Ltr.                   1059   1012        80     44      5        5      148    85   01s  70  1496  121f
Rogor                 Kg.                    24p    133        120     42                     214   141  1127   525  1001   85
Deptrix              Kg.                      5      -                        8       8        3    3                  16    1
Carbrial             Kg.                    822    636                      234     234      582   538   480   460  2118  186J
BPa-.'Judeedo        G'In.                   11       1                                                                11
Saygona              Gln.                      4      4        35      5     62      51        5     5                106    7
Dieldrin             Kg.                     10      10                                                   25      -    35    11
Novmcron             l.tr.                                    65      25                      40    40     -   147   105   21;
D.D.T.              LJr.                                      25                                                       25
Actellic             Ltr.                                     10      10     16      16       142   28      -    12    86    6
Gardona              Kg.                                                     30      30       68    58      -     7    98    9
PYrfectein           Ltr.
Euperacide           Carton                                                                                 -     4     -    4
Nhmmre               Ton                                                                    3600 3600                3600 360
. 



Table 3:                      DLiTA WBAR - Fertilizers/Chemicals Distribttinn (199-W#)
B. COOPERATIVES                                    S:i.eet 4 of 4
Fortilizere/                                                      Distribution
ChemiCals         Unit    1979480    180-81       1081482      1982-83     1983-W              Total:
D.    U    D     U     D     U     D     U     D     U          D.   U.
Uren              Back    67 S' '5    X-  'I   Y98  510  )(Jl4  1056  17/   11"68   14827  4090
Tripple           Sack    43     4 5              35   'L    lX    i;   15    _           109     81
Sup.Fhospaate    (50kg)
Sevin             kg     382    203   117  117   532   532    284   284  510    3141   1855   1480
Zenib             kg     240    208    70   38   271   246    204   111    52    .18    837    621
Nualathion        Ltr.    7      73                                                         7     73
'0    Leb!;Vcid          Ltr.    36     12   188  167   643   406    382   461   A1,  1976    1046   1041
Rogor             Ltr.  162    112  3355 3051   205   174   1009   727  2912  214;6   7643   6526
Deptrix           kg     115     95   393  366   240   229   3285  3274  2530   2530    6562   64911
Cnbrial           kg     203    203   125   58   360   360   1175   825   690    425    2553   1871
Ba-Rudeen         Gallon                           7    -       15     8    12     41   34        12
S.-%YC,oMnn       Gallon                         200  110O                                200    100
Dieldrin          Kg                               14   Al                  40     40          5 1
Hovacron          Litre.                         '72    27   230    124  1280      92    1582   1071
D.D.T.            Litre.
Actellic          Litre.                          15    14                                 15     14
Perfectuin        Litre.              1470  425              1477   1477                 2947   1902
Gordon*            kg.                             171    7B   108     66  123       3     402    147
9brrecide          Carton                           20     1                                20      1
Kawmre            Ton



-62-
Table 4:        'wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Pronect
Short TrairniU Courses -and Semi-srs
(Extension ".rvtce)
No.  Course Title            Trainees      Duratior. Attenders        Date
1   Plant Protection    Plant Protection  I weok         29        March 82
Supervisors
2   Rural Extension      Zxtenaion ;jents  2 weeks       25        May   82
3   Field Crop
Production              Farmors        1 week        30        Aug.  82
4   Secinar              State farms
and Cooperative
managers          3 days        i5        Sept 82
5   Vegetable           Production
Production          Managers           1 week        20        Oct. 82
6   Training and
visits              Extension
Agents           12 sessiots   25         3ept-Nov.
82
7 IWproved
Irrigation          irrigation
Technology          Supervisors        1 week        25        Apr. 83
8   Vegetable
Production          Farmers            1 week        20        Maq 83
9   Increasing          Cooperativo
Agricultural        MeCoort            1 week        35        July 83
Production
10   Extension            Extension           d^ay        3C        Aug. 83
Methods             Agents
Total       2%
a



- 63-
Table 5:          'dadi 1uban Aaricultural Develoament Prolect
Total Water Requiments of the Crops Grown
or Can be Grown in the Project Ar*a
Crop     Planting       Gravig        Tetal Cro  Ecvaotranirstioa
DateGrwn
Period(days)       Flyush                Lahej
Grain sorghum    1.9.          90                387                  331
Maize 1          1.11        lCO                 393                   336
Maize 2          1.12         100                406                   348
Sesame           1.10          90                363                  310
Grain leguses
(early var)      1.8           55               261                   230
Grain legumes
(late var)       1.8           80               431                   359
Grain 1eumes 2
(early var)      1.3           55               264                   221
Groundzuts        &.9         130                505                   431
Tomatoes 1       1.10         135                555                   476
*  Toatoes 2         1.11        135                551                   471
Tomatoes 3       1.12         135                61C                  518
Okra 1           1.9          105                462                  393
Okra 2           1.2           90                421                  354
onions           1.11         150                685                  584
Radish          15.12          40                129                  111
melons 1         1.2           75                331                  279
Nelohs 2        15.11          90                312                  268
Cucumber         1.10         100               364                   311
Swping pupkin   1.2            90                ,81                  320
Alfalfa          1.11         18&                ,62                  817
Forage sorghum  15.8           60               274                   229
lorage legumes  15.8           60               315                   262
Forage maize     1.2           45                180                  154
_  _----8s-.uusuuuuuauumusamauuuinuuuuuUU33UUU'  SU''



-62-
Table 4:        W*adi Tuban Agricultural eveloment Projeot
Short Trai:.'.i  Course -and Swizars
(Extensio: nrvic.)
No.  Course Title           Trainees      Duration  Attenders        Date
1   Plant Protection    Plant Protection  I wk          29        !arh 82
Supervisors
2   Rural Extension     Extensicn A^rnts 2 *deeks       25        May  82
3   Field Crop
Production             Farmers        1 week        30        Aug. 82
4   Seminar             State farms
and Cooperative
mangerg           3 days       15        Sept 82
5  Vegetable            Production
Production          HManagrs          1 week        20        Oct. 82
6   Trainin  and
visits              Extension
Agents           12 seAsions   25        Sept-NoV.
82
7 Improved
Irrigation          Irrigation
Teonnology          Supervisors       1 week       25         Apr. 83
8   Vegetable
Production          Faunrs            1 week        20        May 83
g   IAgrisaina          Cooperat ire
Aricultura          Members           1 week       35         July 83
Production
10   Extonsion           Extension            u s        3}           .
Methods             Agents
Total       2
I



- 65 -
Table 6:                    PA' .S  F71MI .CCMTACTS
'  ITi FRCJZCT'S !.ACTJR  GROUPS
Oheet 2 of 2
S.Nlo.          Item             Unit        Rate         per        GrolUp
Y.D.       Mc -.- eh
8.  Produrcig r:ollow Blocks    _ach        0.C50      13,2C0  1-Surveyor
12-Labourer
9. Survey 'iork for Canal
Profile                                 C.C85       5,000  1-Surveyor
4-Lebburer
10. Conatruction of rrot          tach          30           5  l-eeor,
Structures(each basin)                                     2-Lacourer
11. Repaor old car.l                                 .':-th_:r   'No definite
(without claster-wcrk)       .n             2  **fih..y    r.o def
*                                           ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zalary  num b er o f
.workers
12.  Side tri=.ming of carzl                 2.500 35 )
trenches                                               )
13.  Sand filling under                         40 25)urer
canal elec.3nts                                        )
14.  Side trimming and
sxcavature   'or ssruc-                 2.5C0  Monthly    :o definite
tur es                                         Sal-i.ry    r.umber of
of Grcut   *,icrker3
15.  Sand filling includi-z       -3         5.0CC  ..o r.yt        -t
conp&ctior. fcr structures                     salary       -Ditto-
16.  Mlixing and placirng cement.           124CO  cnth
concrete(l=3=6 & 1=2=4)                        saiaty       -Ditto-
*                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~salary
17.  Block Iork                   .2 4.00  lohItly
sle.ry      -Ditto-
18. Cemeat sarnd -l-ster           2         O       ".thly
1=3           tikx,l,nE tnick                  ta_hr        -Ditto-
19.  Compacted Backfilling                   5.000  Mchtyly
3a&1ry      -Ditto-



'744t 7  :          .am  X. £.ltural DL1010.-3L h-ojet
CGUSt.niqtI lOpf Rrrlga3XSe Ingguoaume,i WeArks
0 _tu   At Aeck  AP of 
State .ars      ILArges                      iccsel i 1M                        inebl-    !                                    C .ana Os
L?*    :m'                    0-FrerM   bitchue        ~         a.-c         ee       ba          camletud
_______             t t I 1 u I }    ILlm?                 ,                                                      (-) St)        i  j(U J) zfi
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _      .m    J E  L  j    4 w ....  Ce..     (a).                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
MAW as or  ,  usm 
* ~           .    - - -.---                    .        -
.VSil b4.0 6,           O              12       1,700       l,7W       ?,%a0 ? ,%a
.Sbsarmt              10    f,.YD      M0         930       15,0      12,5M       6 ,50               1C 
_b3A -                 ",  12,7        %         'aw          . 7     a9.4a      10,5.o     *C        a* ,.                   1     ,                U
JSWamrnh              3      255  o    )%         a         20.000    IS."a                  -UV03,   Ve% is,,m    ~.1.
ai  * 1,2155      U                   2,0    2,            1,v          2e    Ie p         *,
.Jwrai                 ps   2 Su.       as                 2,70                                          y                     £5S-
J_X-            ven    ,                               1,10      I.O                    2          *    _  Zb.              2Z,             .    :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    g~'  U10  .
.shgiret lest         14.                                    3,3(0     2,000                  *0                  S     .
Vada Ybbeinl7i>_aeg    1"00        I             0                              A.5                              f7.,00
-    otel    J  T7I   4-'           1g5      5,03        95,1W     t.         ^.        IS        X___   _________
Barth cm"A
* iticow&re& a%MLt W  be wicb me" to %* uire_lepdw but ut iwc!sdd JA the* _ojet (Pyusb .i Wai t.m  150 beo W                   "air          
20 k). It will rspire for .iw1   s    In _he a-  of W.$ 0.0 w1l11mg p-1 _  i_ewig    Admi0mitraca..   9    01s            G ad
'pare part- ac. wi1o nilunti, 60de1Uls 010.g5 iluesn,
ota _* Aeiat"ed eat imchdlq .itle..l mr a    0 G4-02Z  '#'J'
,0efn _      . a1i  be  _                   .....*... - a   3.a .@ hrN..-.e
LdiILl.malhi  _ *asudede oemplt ,ne  w"tushs Wa
.



WADI  UIBAl AVNICULTURAI. UMVKWISYNT 11(OjiCT
t:HOP  IIYLP8 V0i1 PEaKNIAL ANII  SPAI  IkMIOATUD AURMa
US"L 8
A. P rhnl-        WItHOUl  IIIOJOWT                                WI"H ]iioJkCt
(ItataPuvmSm) IBYr    Arp-   VR    Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4  T er 1.j  uim  6 Avers    App I cM
(sEtate bra )977-78 r  sa,l            978-49  79-S   SO-si 81-42   82-81  tt5-t  1971-C  ras
Cotton            -      0.7    0.7       _       -       -    0.48   0.93   I. .3-   0.91       -      1.2
Vegetables       5.8H2   1; .;,   6.5    3 .3   9g. .6   8.60   4.21   4.9'1   d.1..4.( .2   2l.0    15.0
Water Helen      5.24   P.-O °    .5    4.0'  14.29   1.iS       -     6.)1    4.hM   7.5%  271.0    l5.o
sweet Hlen       5.%1 I',.')    '."    3.57   4.05   3.3         -      5.1"     -      I.,,,  ?i.0.   12.0
Slorghua(grain)  0.72    ).u    O.h    u.6;o  1.20   0.82   ;!.05   C.1 ;       O.tP, I 1.0'   1.0      1.;
Hal%*         0.79    1.         I 1.2    1.06   1.57   1.54    -      i               )9   1.5         1.'A
Seame             .4f6    0. 4    0.4    O.'%)  0.43   0.g9   o. 51   o. se    U . :Pti I. W-  0 .7    o. t
Vodder          17.358   5'.0   13.5    11.33  17.14  11.67  12.17  12.74  gi 11      Iit 1.'.26# i5.0.   ;!.0
Tobacco             _   _  _  _                                 2.10   2.-11           2.24 _           2.0
Banana            _       ..      _       _      _       _    12.S2  4 .46        TSIf. .iij4.41  l S.0    25.0 
Other ?rualts    .:.. .      _                                                                1_.0
d. S$pate I rr.
(C:o-uperatluiui--                                               . .                            .  
Cotton           0.72    0.7    1.0    1.(;4   i.17   1.0',   0.95   U. w    u.'1t I    J. WI   1.2    1.2
Tomatoes        I,.%    ).0   11.0    9.U¶, 10.48   9.29  11.24  1".-ud-P te.'t, 10.30    - I   1.0
Veetsbles        6.E5   I;3.0    5.5     5.25   6.39   4.68   4.71 n    ,.tS'M  'P.9  I 5.47  19.0   12.0
Warnr Helen      6.19   )%).O    4.0     3.10   2.86   4.76    -       6.' rA5| 4.1| 4.40 1i9.0   12.0
Sweet bbeo       4.5W   10.0    3.0      3.f1   2.14   3.10    -       4.?21     -  !3.52  19.0   10.0
sorghua(gruln)  0.47    1.0    0.6       o.kU  0.65   0.60   0.935  0.81 4       .r.  0.72   1.0    1.0
Huse             3.1  1I .,.   1.5       2.c1  . 0.32   0.dW    _       3.1, i...           I3.59   1.5    1.5
Ssems            0.21   *u.4    (.4    0., 9 1 0.44   0.53   O.45  00. U    u  u.4!.  0:.43   0.7    0.7
Fodder          11.11   ",W.U   10.5   12.1&11 12.14   t.19   7.31  11 01   i Io.,A)  9.43    -    48.0
bac-          eo  _               .- .                  _              l     _   41. I.s 3 ss.67{  -  I2.01
Tobs- _ . .      . .              -           -             -.._.                 .           __.
*Ia&i' Messed on svelr4ss of 19'1'1/76 throuib 1960/81



WAiI TUBAN AGNICJULtUaAL IiIVI!LOi4EIN   4tJw
?AIILM 9CHOPPMD AREA FJOI PKtENMNIAL AND SPATE 1u0l1CATBE  ARIRAS3                                                                           4
tAllLB 9                                    ~~~~~~~~~~(Ilectaree) 
A. Perennlal        VlWT1OUT P1'0J?CT                                    VITH PROJECT.
rrlxatloa T Yer  __p_           _, p *iear I Year   Yeh#r i Yea  4  Y_t _5 Year h Average   ______. 
£Ut.te FDFaim   1977-7 ira _i ___ 1978-4  79-0  W-h-l  81-82   82-83  83-84 1918-84 ratual
Cottoim             _        100     -        -        _       _         307     21 1    149    224       _       _
Toatoeus             612  J 00WU     365       305' )   22     .'i29     1 80    172     121    l158   6c',1o    0oot
\lej:.tabiti         117    lSO      106       I661     611      12      59      152     161     36',    400    400
Wortui,um(9.4i-a,) l   III1240                 14       1 .19                    11       1% 99                    0
i;tCl I4et/l ,Ia      150     120       139       14    I''    _          141     164     13', 3  ,5       154k
..uwe.t* helon        '/5             70        16      4')     1                 'iS     t,4      7.'            100
13 4r,lum ( I-tI s)    1       120      24I5 246         514    ;'21       '94     t4      I tXS    I [,            I ()
|ulzUj        1       u_4      5'    101                1)                        47     III       95)    650)    400
13 -t.'SZllll'  1    l-S   _114  7')    I07    1II.  14  1/       101    114      -      -                        ou
g t'udd e -          72      5J35  1,154   1 .284 11.2'45  1,251    1 .754  1.42;O  1.0,14  1. 44 S ) ')4X)                               co
'I'obacco           _       _       -        _         _       _           .       _       _             -         1)
flk,flbflt -a       _         _     _        _                 _         44       1 3     31      32               90
j ottihe- trui:a    -         _        _        =                                  . .i    206      210        _    ISO
Total:       2.105  ~~~~~~2.255,   2,414  2.2A   2'1 X  3.14)  2,71I3  /*316  ?.h1§o.'            ..ioolfl10  0
i^.v,-.8g,er;At1src:i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )
C'JLi              2,523 L000   1.97,                I,5 1. 61s:  * 1  1.11   11     1.172   1.512  3.000  ).0x
805   -         656       fR      561I    56',      59}    435d     26'     504      -  I 4
Vexetubl as          335   -         36',      42      3V9     1191    9*11    56        4S'11   359110   -       4(x|
watcr- mdlom         231 1  50      241       6.     15')    5i4    -          2 1     2.54    2571 )     0      1 I J
SweetL Me:loi        194 7           195       1 5'A    94'    3',)     -  |      4      147    1?C|               I
.J(r,hItIb,tgramin)    795  1.500    669  f .'4    £Oi   621   4. '    3,13   5.252?  1,693  1500O  1.140
h;ilze            144   -          21I6     2NI    166               -      1.31.   1,289      664     -  |         *                        1
Sr:;amr           213     250      221      273      1'55    244      37l     35        49    216      250        0                          t'°
V'oid a:r         1,684    -       2,954    2,54    3,416  4,1611   9,76   5,524   3,4?0  3,80l15         -
Tobacco                     -        -        -       .    -3 -                   3    -                     104
TuLul      6,92    5f°9  2JA9    I_?2'   L? . {0!   10.04 iT5  laI                                         l
Notu;: lbulased ol HverGeso of 1977/78  (hrouah 19e/81



TABLE 10                   CROP PRODUCTION FOtR PERENNIAL AND SPATE IRRIGATED ARRAS
(Metric Tons)
A. Pereaiuill      WITIhOUT PROJECT                                   WNll PROJECT
r-riga-8t7o n-                _ _ _  _   _                                                 - I
Irriiation   Year    App-   PCR    Year    e Yar 2  Yeur 3 Year 4. Year 5  Year 6 Averagq  App-   PCR
19/7-7'  raloal         1978-7   79-80   80-81  81-02   82-83                     raisal   _.
Cotton            -          70    -        _       _               147      202     196      704    _       _
Tomatoes         4. tilO  12,000  3,468   3,207   2,t390  2.Zlb   1.113l  1,il23     90wi  1.548 17.,550   7. iO0              
Vegetables         681   1,110O    689      563      670    619   1,f.50    G.Sb   1,006i  1.026 10.800   6.000
Watel Melon        ',82   2,2'50    900     563   1.057  1,         - I)i0            191    'h?  6.7150    ?50
Sveet Melon        z68   2.250    245       271      182    2ls    -         5M35    -        ?',4   -      1.200
Iorghum(gramn)    143       120    196      153      5771   It'      I9,    III      149      29    -.
Maize               66       7 5    121      41      143    20                . JI   140      12  2.275 6?T    .j
Seunae               6    -         46       24       46     45       44     53       412      42   -           l0
Vodder          1.,655  16.(51.15. 309  10,67tl 22.1(.2 14, Ub6  21,546 18.096  12.372  16,465 49.100  l8.0t0
Tobacco           _       -        -       -       -                  I'_    -      -          1    - _0 '
Banana            -        _      _                                  551    5718     620      78    -       2,250
Other- Fruit      -        -               -      ?b49ISL..f 
lotal:   19,191  20,4s  20|974  151520                     2     /7 *'5,4/0   6,;?31  2?   0        3
ii. SpW.tLe Irr.
(Co-operati VeLJ)
Cotton           1,| 17   2,1(x  1.975   2.034   196 1 1,05   1,6W          9f31     032   1.46   3,600   3.
Tomatoes        12.040   -_    7.216   6.208   5,951  5.249   4.4tl5  5.651   2.319   5.19,         -   | .
VegeLable     | 2.221    -       2.008   2.228   1.9751  1.821   4.6    2.14t   2.722   2,13  . -          4.80(4
Weter Melon      1.430   2.LA     964      806     39f  1.590    -        . 42t0  1.102   1.04   4.750   1".
Sweet Melon        U tfi   2,5(x    585     550     201  1,01*1   -   .   610    -   I-                     1.0I (-
Sorgtaum(gtaia    '574   1 ,50     401      24      39(    3I6   4,i4ti 2.,00   3,0t9   1.311  2.460   1.143
Maize              444      1Oq    324               5      ?51    l)ll 2.442   2.114        921   -          17dg
|Sesae               451     -5!1    88|    l1         69     fil  71.346t   1177      221      91    1?5      1i       
Fodder          1H.B44    -    31.017  31.551  41.44( 25.1M          2(1 61.151  35.910             - 373(                      ,-|
Tobacco           -        -      -        -       -       -        -      - -      -          4'   -_
_To:al;      av| 9gg3   44.77/78  tbrjugh 19e08               6     1jl9  jB,11  5 8  10.    I .A- 
'Note: Based on ave:rages of 1977/78  through 1980/81-   
i . ,X, ., ... _ .. _ .... . ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



COaPUISOU OP OVU&LL IuOiWTCOIY(STAt  FAru    a C&OAOA4 VUs)
?ANS   1! (2' '9 ;ia)
_  IH( rajw                                     WIT  ft.J
11ItlOUt PllOJIOt                             W1?11 i'IOJ NC?
Crops                                        1i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~-ro c  onM 7 years  Aba a
4   Crops          O:t Assumption  lverag o 19gQ8 to 1984- Po1ol~ I            atiot       Alpbrels
t t   Co-op  total          C0-op   total  9Fatm  Co-op  Tot-l  State   Co-op  total
_P_a_t_-_se   _    _          _        _ _a_a_e _ _               __
Cotton             -      1,9'15  1,91    -204  1,467   1.67    _       5.tAx   S,600   -      .3,     5,
tomato.e         3,468   3,46  10684  I ,' 4   5.192   6.74   75Or  eU.    15.600 17,550    -    17.55
Vegetables         689   2,      2 61 I,t26  2,133   5,15   6,.0    4, I<  I0,000 10.800    -    10.
Water Melon        900    ..I   1.9? 2     .9  1,042   2.03   2.25   I,t'A%) 4.050  16150   4.1  Ui.
Sweet .  alusa     .'45     ',   Od    ;*-54    584        83   t,w   I."K e, U          -     -        - O
Sorghum(graia.)    I *     401    597    209  1.219   1.421             11 74   1,060   -      2.4    2.4
Natte              121      52     445    1)2    923   1.05t              'O  1.0 /b   I  215    -     2.2
Same           i    46      f      134      4      93   *  S       .1   1' (Ps                  1 _7'1   17
Poddar          15. 39  51.01V  46.,32  16,46  37.,u3  54,34  18. h5,.   HI1,UUU 49,.14X       -    49,3
Tobaucco          -                         I (     47     6f,                    40    -       _  ;  _
Manana            _       _       _       *1&    _         78   2.25           U,.2$50   -
Other PruiLs      -       - _             73    _          13     7     7_01 3.150
t.al                     ____ .   -                             _                  j................ ___ __  _ .9610.6._   ..___
&Als   20,974  44.64  65,616 22,4   50.83  72,99  38.7    4. 91  23.67'         2 89625   0
._--- -             _    -- _ __.                                          _ ___
area
*Notes Yields, dropped/und Production bosed on averajes of years 1%'7/78 thro' 1960/Al
b.cauuw  Irrigatloa liprooveent Vorbe started in lVbpary. lJY.
4.



- 71 -
.
ANM    4  -  MJCT  PMCKiAL
STMMMGT10?  MIaG.ATIUf DEAM66
FERTION AN  ':.zz'.z= (O  ',;)
TABLE CF COMMI"7S
Fz  wo.
t'nsth.ening L-rigstiou ^N artme..t
IackIround and Justification                            I
Objectives                                              2
Pwoject Activities                                     4
Project Inputs
GcTernment Contribution                                6
Details Local Budget                                   6
2QPERATiOf AND MAITNMA.ICE (o 0:
Background and Justificstion                           7
Project Cbjectives                                     8
Activities                                             9
Project Intats                                        10
Government Contribution                               1C
Details Lucal Budget                                  .0
.



- 72 -
Anne 4
z1ROJECT FRCFC.AL
.Strecthetninz  Irri,ation  Dep artment
1.   3ackcroumd and Justiftcatio:
The za4or toed of the country is to atta4n self-sufficiency
in L-uits, vegetables ard cereals; and to increase agricultural
exports (cotton and tobacco). Iavestonet priorities are irriga-
tion schemes, farm nechati3ation, and applied research for improved
agsicultural practices.  In the rovised second five year plan
(U981-2.5) the Puy Gcver=emt allocated as much as 7CP of the total
development budget in the agriculture sector. At present three
major agricultural development projects (Wadi Tuban, Wadi Hadhramaut,
Wadi Beihan          ) costinr  nearly US$ 70 zillion are being
implemented. Cther on-going prcjects include Wadis training,
development of Aoyan Delta, improvement of state for Tuban Delta
and other ';!adis, and 'adi 2ajr is about to start.
Yew programmes have greatly intensified the need for
strengthening the Irig4tion De*.artcent to do overall planing;
coordinate differoet activities; mcr.tor and assist the
implementatLon of various projects.  Present staff, equipment and
facilities available are insufficient to Palfill the increased
obligations of the Department. Ixperienced sxperts are needed
for extensive training of the local personnel in the fields of
irrigation planning, design, water resources, hydrology/meteoro-
logy, data proce3sing/arnal;ysis and Pocruter progrmming.
To accrue full benefits of :he hea-ry investeamnts being
made on aricdlturt. leve.omreat -r:Jects. t'ere is a preat
need to setu: an `reration ar.d   n :.tn.ar.ce kC & 'A.) Sectior. in
the Irrigation Depart:nent to advi3e/t'asn farmers of State Farms
and Cooperatites for the troper uzk?ep of the completed works.
The maior ccrnstrrints presently  imitin; the effective
I.%nctionia;s of th-. -epart-ent are:-
')  Lack of adeu.4tel;' trAir.ed staff at -1t levels
inclIdir;:
-  Data ob3?rvation, data processiog/unrl;rs
and filing;



- 73 -
- Coyutor programming for planning, design;
data procesuing/Jalysis etc.
'datez resource *nginer/plar.nrs, irrigation engineers,
hydro-geologist, and hydrologits,
-  Survcyors, drilling foreoce, pusp test tchAicians,
laboratory technicians (soil and water teoting),
irrigation technicianr, observers of moteorological
and hydrological stations; draftsmen, tracors and well
monitors,
-  Mechanics, operators, drivers, msons and helpers.
- lcord keepers, data flere.
a)      Lack of Zquipyent, such as:
Pumping test utita, laboratory equipments, survey
instruments, drawing and drafting equipment.
1I!)     Lack of or inadenuate ecordination betwoen various sectious/
field offices.
IV)     Inadequate monitoring of office/fiold activities.
V)     Limited role of Zrrigation institute due to shortage of
staff.
2. OBJECTIVM:
General:
To support and strengthen by providing expatraite staff, equipment
and supplies tc. to the Irrigation Department which comprises of:-
Design aAd drafting section
Projcots Seccion
-   ater Resources Section
- Secondary Irrilation Projects sc.::or.
- General Service Section
-  Sci. and Water Laboratory
- Irrigation Zngineering Institui:3
And to creat, a new C ?, i Contrea  Section in the Depart-
ment and at fam  levels in t.oe stute farma ad cooperatives
and to build un the instituticnai  r-amework, which can
effectively undertake and covntinae irrigation developments
in the country; and take care of proper Operation and
Maintenance (C i Mt) of the completed irrigatior. projects.



- 74 -
SPECIFIC:
i.   Provide oxatriate technical "sistace to tstrr.&hen
the teccMcal capablit,t of varius sections of the
Lrrigation Department, and in particular tho water resources
section to enablo:-
a) to monitcr and supervise impleoentation and provide
backstopping tc.±=ica1 support for on-going irrigation
projects,
b)  conceive ned proec'ts and prepre proyosa!3 for those.
c)  lovivw/evalt;at  technical reports prepared by consul-
tants or oth.er agencies, and evaluation cf bids.
d)  Preparation of periodic progreas rypott of the
frrigation Dapartment.
T) fraining of the local personael in various desciplin.a.
ii) To strengthen the dater resources secticn according to
its proposet organization chert (cc-y atteoced) and in
particular eitablishing the following units and traiiie4g
of the counterpart staff by the expatriatns:
- hydrological unit
-  hydrogeolo ical anit
-  comyuter training unit
* data procesaine/aualysis and filing units.
iii) To strengthen the existing plaznning and design section
by providing an expatriate expert.
iv) To strengtle: the Irrigation t.stitute to txpand its
role in arrang-in  short tr2i:ing course3, i  addition
to its existing setur off teachiag students earolled
for irvigationsurve-ing diplona.
v) Furnish necessary eiuirent/instruments tc soil and
water laboratory and drafting sections.
vi) Arrange necesaary iz-servict training acd fellowships
for vprious sectior.3.
vii) Setup a new C, 'g '.: sectior. at central and field levels.
Provide following exnatriate experts for 2 to 3 years
duration



- 75 -
Zrrigaion Lngi,eer/7sam Leader
- ;eonsionist/aronomist
-  Farm :achinery Expert
The details of 0 & M proposal are given in the attached Appendix A.
3. ProJoect Activities:
L. The network of meteorological and hydrometrical station in the
country will be extended. T..e retriveal, com;lation and
comptation of hydrological and zieteorological data will be
further stndardJzed anA analysed by coe;utcr.  '>.w techniques
such as rewote sensing will be introduced to monitor and evaluate
data. E7drogeological investigations will be made where ancesary
and periodic monitoring oa wells will be done to know tho trends
of groundwater levels. Heaares angainst depletion of roundwater
will be takeo by limiting pmping hours.   ore cooperation between
all agencies and institutions involved in water development training
courses will be organized for counterparts and technical staff in
watr development, monitoring and coutor propalrdu. To implment
these activities the Project will provide sarvices for the total
project duration, with additional assistance from consultants in
specific fields sack as reote sensing, data processing and
computor progruit.
ii. Technical support will be given to on-going projects by
periodic backstopping visits of the expatriates and trained
counterparts.
iii.   Review and evaluation of consultants re-ort3, tachnical reports,
feasibility stUdies and bids  nalysis 3will be =ade by the
experienced experts w*w th active participation af counterparts,
who will receive in-service training to be abc2. to carry out these
activities independently after the project.   TM= will help
to expedite findings/ciservations of the de;artnent, which will
activate projects for=ulation/Vpilementation, ec--ctig  of
new projects, and procurement of machinery and equipment.
iv.  Develops design criteria for conveyance/distribution systems
for groundwater, spate and conjuctive use, for state farms and



- 76 -
cooperatives.  Also develop design standards for various
conditions for open lined cans  system (trapezoidal,  emi-
circular), spate cal, drip and sprinkler irrigation systems.
Develop s*andard drawings for repetitive type of structures
(checks, drops turnouts, culverts etc.) Also strengthoen drafting
section by procuring latest drafting equipment and training of
d iftsnen/tracers.
V.   Strengthen Irrigation Engineering Institute by arranging periodic
lectures by expatriate experts on various engineering disciplines.
Advise in updating curricula for higher and medium level irrigation
techniciar.s and water specialists. Plan short course of training
of farm managers and directors of cooperatives and progressive
farmers to give technical background for improved agricultural
practices. Pronure surveying equipment, slide projector and
video to show slides and films for surveying, land levelling and
modern methods of irrigatioh, etc.
4.  Project InDita:
1 Irr4l..ition EnSineer/Tea  Leader (1987/88/89)          36 m
1 Hydrologist 1987/88/89                                  24 mm
1 Hydrogeologist 19187/88/89                              24 m
1 Comput*ar Prograzner 19(37/88)                          12 m
Consultants                                              4 mm
Administrative support secretary,
accountant 1987,88,89
Total Personnel                                  US$ 865,600
Test puip set (1 unit)                                 75,000
Vehicles (7 land cruisers   sr-all car)                70,000
Microbus for In3titute                                 20,000
Lab., survey, drafting equipeent                       80,000
Fello.:ships 100 :m.                                  240,000
r-eneral > 3erating Expenses                           50,000
Total Estimated Project Budget Nithout 0*1)   *J4    1,400,600
Budget for 08'. (w.,ithout Irrigitior. Engi-.eer)   uT5%    1,277,000
Total:        ,a     2     6



m 77 -
3. GJoYor1:vt Contibutton:
A. StrogEthenigA  r:  atioa   gartment n
i)  Salries in I.-moni tinars                      Y!  3B,32C
i)  Operatic=! Zxpenses                              ID   5, I000
sub-total       YD 133iS-0
B. Ceeration and :4aimt.o.amc (cu.&O:-
lj) Salaries ir.   D. Dn.rs                         YD 132,3C0
-                   $!ii)  GratiorAl Zx-enses                            ID 132,300
sub-total       nD 264,810
Total           ID 378,120
Annu&1 3tdget   YD 126,000 (aprox.
DEMAZIS - IOCM. 3'WDG
Strongthedrs Irritation Do xartm*nt
' SAI,%RIES:
Personnel           _._C.    Madeaoth        Rato           Mct
(Y-)      '   {YD
Co-Marager            1         36           200            7,2CC
Counterparts          2         48           130            7,200
Programmrs            2         72           15C           10,800
Operators
.(Pump Test Untt)   2         72          iCG             7,2CO
Helper               2          -2            60            4,320
Drivers               4        14            8C           11,520
.'les Keeser          1                      L  0           3,600
Typist Arabic         1         36            c0            2,880
T ,ist ZliSh          ;3c                     o             3 ,600
Sub-Total  58,320
2.   Equipment/ve#hiclos
0,eration Cost @ YD1500/yr for 3 y7ers                   45,CCO
3.   Electricit7y dater etc. 8 YD20C0/year for 3 years           6,0CC
4.   Office Supplies         of...f  ..     ...   .*..            4,0c0
Total:    113,320
Apyroximate7 YD38 ,000/anU
Note: T.a detai1s af Local Budzet .or 0;i are given on page 5 of tt  following
Apendix A "Cpertrioir and X. ir.tcenco  OZZI)".



- 78 -
APFfNDIX A
PROJECT PRCFCSAL
"10eration and 4aintenance of FTrm  rrigated 3Satem
in the 'iadi Tubar St:te F:rMs S3ction"
*    1.   Background and Justification:
Peoyle's L;mocaatic Ropublic of Yemen (FDRY) has very few known
natural resources. CQly about C.Y% oE country's land are arable
(1l0,COC ha). AlcGut 20,000 ha are irrieated from wells, and the
remaining nearly t;ree-quarters depend on unreliable seasonal floods
(spate).
As a result about 45 of national import bill covers agricul-
tural products. Imports of agricultural Droducts during 1975-80
rose from US $ E5 million to JS % Z,C millIon.
Hbwever, over the past two decades irrigated agriculture has
*        shown a rapid development.  Investment in agriculiure over the 1978-
80 am0unted to US % 23C million (351, of development budget).  Nearly
US % 70  i±:lion are being 3pent o. thren major on-going projects:
i) Wadi Tuban, ii)  aei '-Sdhrars,aut, and iii) Wadi B:ihan.
Though huge amounts ares being axpended on implomentation of land
levolling and irrigation improvement .orks, no specific provision- 
has been made for Operatior. and ;ainter.ance (OZa)) of com;cleted works.
Evom the organisational set up for 0 a I. is almost non-existent at
wresent.
Fresent i-rigated a,ric:'itur! in ED.-Y i±3 ranpered by thr followin.g
constrainta: -
-  Poor farm manage.ere
-  Inefficiant u.na of  carrce irrigtion w3t.r
- Serious shortage of farm labour
The edperience ^' the *iadi Tuban Agr±cultural Development
Project shows that aft.r the compl:'tion of thoe farm improvement
still labour intansivc arnd in.zfficie-it a:ricultural practices persist.
Haphazgrd operation and lack. of mai,ntenanca (as evidenced in tho
completed farm.s which -ierc :;ar.dad over cne or two years ago) will
result in rapid detcx-oration of 'ho now syster (ueoful life =ay
reduce from anticipated 35 Y,.rs to 5 or 6 y3ars).



- 79 -
Thus largo investm*nt, which in caso of' adi Tuban wa over
US 1%.27 million, will be nullified rapidly if no eoual effort is
devoted to:-
-  Introduction of improvAd irrigation practices
(long furrows, border strip etc.)
-  Adequate operation of the irrigation system
- Introduction of maintenance procedures
- Introduction of adequate farm equipment and appropriat4
packages of farm mechanization.
To overcome t.-is, a nationwide effort is r3quired to develop
guidelines and assist farmers and farm mar.agers irn the introduction
of improved operation and maintenance procedures of the farm irri-
gation system.  Such effort ashould be pt under the'guidanco of the
irrigation Department which, with the establishment of an Operation
and Maintenance Section, would rrovide cor.tinuing supp.rt to farmers.
To include C & M component, the on-going ':adi Tuban Agricul-
tural Development Projoct should be extended upto mid-1989. Irrigation
improvement works are exnected to be fully com-letzd by the end of
1986.
3.     Pro,ject Cb.jectives:
cavelotmcnt .b.jectivo:
To increase and sustain agricultural production (as contemplated
in the for=ra.tion and des .n of 'Jadi D.ban Proj;ct), throu#  the
introduction of adequata operation and maintenance procedures.
Immediate Objectives:
i) To assist farm mar.agers and farmers in the development and
introduction in their farms of i.-roved irrigation technizues,
and adequate operation and maintenance procedures, ar.nd iater
M'-. gement.
ii)  To develop and organize training and extansionr trogrammes on
improved irrigation techniques, fer:m mechanisation, and 0 & '.



-sso -
*ain OUj*tIA#t  wdil l* t,0 * xtatsv  tw.AJnsg of about 120
loca  c .   tctOhes of 3 Moth& duration each yoear, each
batct. of 20 tain*'s, to contina, to prauc thow             t
on a continuous 'o°sis  aft.zr termiAation Of t>* projeoto
iii)  To dvevlbv national edi Vnianal guitipli"s on the ir.trori*tian
of improvod irrigation thni.p*,s Ard fgrm machanisation.
iv)  To assist in tha estehlishmont with.n the Irri6atio. Department
of arn Ci'r6tion and '. i. :.p'r, unit to im:plenent ob jactives I-.
ii and iii, through farm sub-oanits.
3.    Activities:
i)  Survey in different state far=s to evaluate present practices
in irrigation and farm machanisation.
ii)  On selected lare., in cooperation with farmers and fcr- ma6Agers,
preparation of an improvement plan for bettar water distribution
and introduction of improved irrigation methods and farm mocha-
nization practices.
iii)  Ec:C:'¢'; [: t of demonstration fields for border and furrow
irrigation in cooperatior. with the L tension Services.
iv)  Trial and demonstration of farm machiinery acuipment for
different cultural operation and land preparation (precise
land levelling using lazer equipme. ;.
v)  Development of training and extension. propDam. and zrWg'satior.
of training courses fcr cricultural  iA frrigat ion staff ar.d
extensior. .iorkers.
vi   Developmen.t of tr00i.nde>  -Mt4t3lor. matbrar4s ..'
vii)  Training of national countwrpart staff '.n t:.e Irrigation
; ~~I-.tituti.
viii)  Development and i4m   *. .1 ttion of r     a  p.iCY sCistems
and at ferm level.
ix)  Training of stat.- far. mn.agcrs and staff of zerratior. and
Maintenance to fully understand C :   -:rocedur4.s.



- 81 -
Prolect Inruts:
Porsonnel
1  Irrigation specialist/team leader                30 m/n
1  Farm MJchanisation :$;rert                       24 m/m
1   raining and Extension Expert                    24 n/n
2  U.N. volunteers each. 24 m/m                     48  m/m
(one in agronomy and one civil
~;ngineer)
Consultants   *...       ... .    ....    ....                  4  m/m
Administrative support (secretary, accountant, etc.)
Total Personnel                              UZ$ 776,0C0
Eauipment:
- 4 Wheel drive, vehicles, 1 Land Craizer                     50,COO
Farm machinery: for land pre;paration, on-
. .
field lard lovelli4g (including lazor) and
irrigation fAld layo'at                                      340900
Irrigation Equipmeni: sprirklzars and drip
system for demonatratior.                                    100,00
Tran-in Mteri'.:
Tr3.nine:
- group trainiin4
in-sa3rvica -,raining
-  fellawship3                                        150,C00
General Qzeraticn Exze.s-Es:
Preparation of training -.-tcrials:                              50,000
Sundries:
Total Satimated Pioject 2udwet:                       US $   1,496,000
Gcvernment Ccntribution:
6) S:.laries in 'n  Dir s    150,CO
ii) G-erational   :       r.s      130,000
Total Y.D:      280,0co
Office f cilities and -aorks;.o-; &s preser.tly existing in Wadi
Tuban Project will b.: extcn-*n,d till e nd of 1988.



-82-
Details of Local Budxet
Ooeration %.d M:.intenance Pro.iect
1. Salari ea:
Personnel         1jo.   :lan/haonth    :'c-thly rate(YD)      C%pst(YD)
Co-i.anager        1        30                200               6,000
Countervarta       5       126                150             18,900
Admin.Gfficer      1        30                180               5,400
Accountant         1        30                180              5,400
Storekeeper        1        30                120              3,600
Dr.ftsmun          1        30                150              3,600
Surveyors          4       120                i20             14,400
Latourers for
Surveyors       8      240                 6C              14,4CO
0;erators         10       300                100             30,000
Holpers           10      300                  60             18,000
Typist Arabic      1        30                 80              2,400
Typist English    1         30                100              3,000
WJatchmen          4       120                 60              7,200
Sub-total:      132,300
E. quipment operating cost X fD 50,000/year
for 2-ears.&            125,000
3.   Electricity, ':!ater etc. I YD 3COO/year
for 24 years              7,500
Tctal Y.Z.          264,800 sey
(YD265,000)
.%nnua' BudrAt YD:         1050920
or say:        .D:         !06,000/annum



