Report No. 1727a-YDR
Appraisal of Wadi Tuban                                                  FILE COPY
Agricultural Development Project
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
January 25, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture Division 1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
YD 1      =  US$2.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                British/US System
1 millimeter (mm)                            0.0394 inch
1 meter (m)                                  3.2808 foot
1 kilometer (km)       2                     0.6214 mile
1 square kilometer (km )    =                0.3861 square mile
1 hectare (ha)  3                            2.4711 acre
1 cubic meter (m )           =              35.3147 cubic foot
1 million cubic meter (Mm ) =              810.7000 acre foot
1 kilogram (kg)              =               2.2046 pound
1 metric ton (mt)            =          2,204.6000 pound
1 liter per second (1/sec)  =                0.0353 cubic foot per second
ABBREVIATIONS
PDRY           =   People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
MAAR           =   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
LADB           =   Lahej Agricultural Development Board
DTDB           =   Delta Tuban Development Board
NBY                National Bank of Yemen
NCHT               National Company for Home Trade
NCFT           =   National Company for Foreign Trade
PCMFV          =   Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruit and
Vegetable (ex-Horticulture Cooperative Union)
PWC            =   Public Water Corporation
MWS            =   Machinery Renting Station
PCEP           =   Public Corporation of Electric Power
vMC            =   National Meat Corporation
PWD            =   Public Works Department
ADF            =   Agricultural Development Fund
PCLT           =   Public Corporation for Land Transport
GOVERNMENT OF PDRY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (From 1976)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ................                                         i-.
I.    INTRODUCTION  .................*..          .              *                          1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND   .. *.so**..............                                          1
General Description  ...... ................  ...............                      1
The Agricultural  Sector ...................................                       2
Previous Projects in the Agricultural Sector .............                         3
III. THE PROJECT AREA ...................................................                   3
General  ..............3....................................
Climate  ...         ................................................              4
Soils and Topography  .......  ...           ................... ...  ...          4
Land Tenure,  Cooperatives and State Farms  .................                      4
Land Use and Agricultural Production ......................                        5
Agricultural Support Services  ..... ........................                      6
Research  ...... o..... ..........................................             6
Extension  ....*.....**......................                                  6
Credit .......... .o.o. ....                  ........ .      o          ......* . o  6
Dsarketing .. ....................... ..... .** *****..                        7
Transportation . .......                      ....a....... ....     .          8
Taxation ........** *** *** ** ***** ................o    ............         8
I        FV.    THE PROJECT ..... ................ *** ** o*             ......2 8
Objectives  .............. ...oo............. .......................              8
Description  ............. ........     oso000o... 0.......... .000o........       9
Engineering Status   ...... .        ... .... . . .   ........ ..... . . ...  .    10
Cost Estimates ............. .o..o............ ......... s... 10
Financing ... o..... *.*... ooo..9000...                   00..........-.... ...    12
Implementation Schedule ........... oo...........................    12
Procurement  ............ *    ...*. *..                 ... ..... ......         12
Disbursements           .*...........             O.. *           .........    13
Water Supply.  Quality and Requirements                 ......................    14
Water Rightl,^  c ..o...... o..................................    14
Environmental. Impact  ........ ... ..... ......................    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



lable of r- .ca. ents (Continued)                                     Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .15
Organization, Management and Technical Assistance                15
Operation and Maintenance .17
Technical Assisitance and Training .18
Credit .18
Recovery of Costs .19
Accounts and Audits .20
Monitoring .20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME .21
Cropped Area, Yields and Production .21
Livestock ...............................................        23
Markets .....                                                    23
Prices .24
Subsidies and Taxes .24
Producer Income .24
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .26
Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .26
Economic Evaluation .27
Project Risks .27
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .28
ANNEXES:
1.   Country Background and Agriculture Sector
2.   Agriculture
3.   Water Availability and Requirements
4.   Land Tenure, Cooperatives and State Farms
5.   Description of Project Works
6.   Consultant's Terms of Reference
7.   Outline for Agricultural Policies Study
8.   Cost Estimates
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Organization and Management
11.   Marketing of Project Output
12.   Farm Models and Farm Incomes
13.   Economic Rates of Return
FIGURES:
WB 17632:  Organization of Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
WB 17755:  Present Organization of Lahej Agricultural Development Board
WB 17523:  New Organization of Delta Tuban Development Board
WB 17756:  Proposed Cropping Pattern for Groundwater Irrigated Areas
WB 17906:  Organization of Production Cooperatives
WB 17904:  Implementation Schedule
WB 13013:  General Map of Project Area



APPRAISAL OP
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has very few known re-
sources including surface or groundwater. Only about 110,000 ha are arable
or about 0.3% of the country's total land area of 338,100 km2. Most of the
arable land (76%) depends upon seasonal floods thus subjecting agricultural
production to considerable fluctuations from year to year. About 70% of the
cultivated land is in cereals consisting primarily of sorghum and millet.
The other major crops are cotton (about 7% of the cultivated land), sesame
(5%) and vegetables (5%). Agriculture employs about 60% of the people
and generates about 23% of the GDP and from 25% to 45% of export income.
Domestic production of cereals is below local demands and agricultural im-
ports comprise about 40% of the import bill. The major export is cotton.
ii.       In the current Five Year Plan (1974-1978), Government has allocated
approximately 37% of its investments to the agriculture and fisheries sector.
In addition, a significant portion of the transportation allocation is ear-
marked for road construction which will improve the transfer of agricultural
goods and supplies to and from production centers. The proposed project
is compatible with the national program. It will contribute towards export
earning and provide food, feed and fiber for local consumption, livestock
enterprises and agro-industries.
iii.      The project will provide for purchase of fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals (all requirements for the first year and the incremental
needs for the second, third and fourth year); procurement of tractors, farm
implements and pumpsets to replace obsolete and worn out equipment; a buried
pipe irrigation distribution system; construction of feeder roads and a
rural water supply to serve 6,000 persons; planting of shelterbelts; a water
management and feasibility study to determine groundwater resources and the
use of sewerage water for irrigation; a study on agricultural price, taxation
and subsidy policy systems; and technical assistance. The project will be
implemented in four years by the reorganized Delta Tuban Development
Board (DTDB),a semi-autonomous body with a direct link to the Minister of
Agriculture. Five expatriate experts, one for four years, two for three and
a half years, and two for two years will be provided to assist the DTDB, one
of whom will be the project manager. Each expert will have a counterpart
(Yemeni graduate) except the project manager who will have two. One counter-
part will serve as co-manager. In-service and short-term overseas training
will also be provided for Yemeni personnel.
iv.       The project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$12.3 million, of which 79% will be foreign exchange. The
proposed IDA credit of US$5.2 million will finance about 52% of the foreign
costs (US$5.0 million) plus approximately 8% of local costs (US$0.2 million)
o-r 42% of the total project cost. It is expected that another external source
will supply a loan of US$6,I million which will finance the remaining 48%
foreign exc:hange (US$4.6 miilion) plus 57% of local costs (US$1.5 million).
The Government of PDRY will finance about US$1.0 million covering about 36%



- ii -
of the local costs or 8% of total project costs. The civil works (feeder
roads and rural water supply) included in the project do not lend themselves
to international bidding and will thus be constructed by force account or
under negotiated contract. All imported goods and supplies will be procured
by international competitive bidding except for small items with an aggregate
value of US$200,000.
v.        Farming in the project area is carried out by 7 production coopera-
tives in the spate area and 12 state farms in the groundwater irrigated areas.
Cotton (60%), sorghum (30%), melons (5%) and sesame (5%) are the crops in the
spate region. In the groundwater area, tomatoes (50%), sorghum (grain and
forage) (30%) and a wide variety of vegetables (15%) are the main crops.
Four of the state farms specialize in livestock production, mainly dairying,
beef fattening and sheep and goat raising. Fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals will be supplied under short-term credits, whereas agricultural
machinery, equipment and pumpsets will be furnished under medium-term credits.
Irrigation improvement investments will be recovered from state farms over a
20 year period with interest.
vi.       At full development, the project in 1984 will increase the annual
gross value of agricultural production (in economic prices) by about 107%.
The net value added will be increased by about 218%. The net annual savings
in foreign exchange will be approximately US$1.2 million, discounting any
expansion in demand induced by increased incomes. There will also be an
increase in public revenues of about 134% from the area. The economic rate
of return (ERR) of the project as a whole is 24%, or 27% excluding the infra-
structure (roads and water supply) and the water and agricultural policy
studies. The ERR is 52% in the spate irrigated area alone, and 22% for the
perennially irrigated area. For the orchard development alone the ERR is 29%.
Excluding the infrastructure and reducing the benefit stream by 20% and simul-
taneously increasing the cost stream by 20% the ERR is 12%.
vii.      As a result of the project in the spate area approximately 7,000
farm families (36,000 persons) will benefit; their average income, after taxes
and levies, rising from about YD 51 (US$148) to YD 84 (US$242) per family, an
increase of 63%. A majority of these families are in the target group, defined
as those whose incomes are below the Relative Poverty Level (US$75 in 1976).
The feeder roads will link about 9 villages with the main road and the village
water supply will improve the health of approximately 6,000 persons. About
200,000 days of work will be created by construction during the project period
and an increase of 326,000 days per annum on farms following completion of
project. The water management study will determine how to maximize the use
of available water and could produce information that might lead to an expan-
sion of irrigated agriculture in the region. The agricultural policies study
will result in recommendations for alternative policy instruments to improve
productivity, resource mobilization and income distribution. The DTDB with
its management and extension capabilities developed by technical assistance
and training under the project will be a significant institution in the Wadi
Tuban Delta.
viii.     The necessary assurances having been obtained during negotiations,
subject to the conditions of effectiveness, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$5.2 million on standard terms. The Borrower will be the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
has requested assistance from IDA to help finance an agricultural project in
the Wadi Tuban Delta in the Second Governorate. The proposed project aims at
increasing agricultural production and improving irrigation efficiency in the
present spate and groundwater irrigated lands in the Wadi. The project will
finance fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, irrigation improvement, farm
machinery, technical assistance, as well as a rural water supply scheme and
feeder roads. It will also support a water management study to determine the
status of water resources in the Wadi, develop a plan for its efficient use
and determine the feasibility of using waste water for irrigation. Provisions
have also been made for a study of agricultural policies which will develop
alternative policy instruments for improvements in productivity, resource
mobilization and income distribution.
1.02      The proposed credit will be the seventh IDA credit to PDRY and the
third to the agricultural sector. The first loan for agriculture was for a
project in the fisheries sub-sector (Cr 370-YDR) which, although initially
hampered because of various delays in project implementation, is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily. The second credit was for agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramaut (Cr 615-YDR). The latter has only recently begun to be imple-
mented because of delays in appointing consultants.
1.03      The project evolves from an FAO/UNDP project sub-contracted by FAO
to ITALCONSULT, Rome, on "Soil and Water Conservation and Utilization in the
Wadi Tuban Watershed Area". The project was planned with the assistance of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission in May 1976 and prepared by
another CP mission in December 1976. This appraisal report is based on the
findings of an IDA mission to PDRY in April/May 1977, composed of Messrs.
F. Sands (agriculturalist, mission leader); M. Mian (irrigation engineer);
and G. Donovan (economist). Messrs. J. Tellez and U. Kiermayr have also
contributed to this report.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
General Description
2.01      PDRY, with an area of 338,100 km2, is divided into six governorates
for administrative purposes. It has a population of 1.7 million (Jan. 1976),
which is increasing at an annual rate of 2-3%. The population density aver-
ages only five persons per km2 of total land, but 1,600 per km2 of arable
land. The per capita GNP for 1976 was estimated to be US$280.
2.02      PDRY has few known natural resources.  Much of its territory is
either mountainous and rugged or desertic, while the climate is arid, charac-
terized by high temperatures and very little precipitation. These conditions



- 2-
plus the absence of perennial surface water streams limit the scope for agri-
cultural development. No minerals of commercial importance or oil have been
discovered, although explorations are continuing along the northeastern
borders.
2.03      Government is now pursuing a policy of developing the commodity-
producing sectors of the economy and providing the infrastructure to integrate
production areas with consumption centers. Government is emphasizing develop-
ment in agriculture, fisheries, mining and manufacturing.
The Agricultural Sector
2.04      About 65% of the population of PDRY is classified as rural or
nomadic, while the agricultural sector generates about 23% of the GDP and from
25% to 45% of export income. Agricultural imports comprise about 40% of the
imports bill, so that the scope for substitution is considerable (Annex 11).
2.05      Only about 110,000 ha of land are arable, or about 0.3% of the coun-
try's total land area of 338,100 km2. Since about 76% of the arable land
depends upon irrigation by seasonal floods, agricultural production is subject
to considerable fluctuations from year to year. Cereals occupy about 70% of
the cultivated land, with sorghum and other millets taking up almost 80% of the
cereals area. Other major crops include cotton (about 7% of the cultivated
area), sesame (5%) and vegetables (5%). Stover and forage are important by-
products of cereal production, since they sustain the country's livestock.
2.06      Production of most cereals is of a subsistence nature, with small
farms producing little marketable surplus. There are significant imports of
all major foodstuffs - wheat, rice, sugar, meat and milk. In 1975 the value
of imported agricultural commodities was about fourteen times as great as the
value of exported agricultural commodities (seven times if fisheries exports
are included). The major export item is cotton, while in 1976, imports in-
cluded 36,000 tons of rice, 55,000 tons of wheat, 26,000 tons of wheat flour,
5,000 tons of millets and 22,000 tons of sugar (Annex 11). The inflow of
cereals was probably almost as great as domestic production in that year.
2.07      Most agricultural production has been organized into cooperatives
and state farms since 1970, and Government sets all prices for inputs and out-
puts. At present, prices for sorghum and maize are set at from 60% to 75%
above world market levels, but the cotton price received by farmers is well
below its export level. Farmgate prices for fertilizers are from 30% to 60%
above world levels, while the hire rates for agricultural machinery are con-
siderably less than actual costs of operation and maintenance. Agriculture
is also relatively heavily taxed, with flat rate levies on most commodities
(Annexes 4, 12).
2.08      There is considerable scope for increasing agricultural output in
the country through use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, adoption
of improved crop varieties, and more efficient use of available irrigation
water. Several studies are currently underway which may lead to expansion of
irrigation by tapping currently unused sources of water. In the current Five
Year Plan (1974-1978), about 37% of investment has been allocated to the agri-
culture and fisheries sector. In addition, a significant proportion of the



- 3 -
25% of investment allocated to transportation is being used to construct roads
which will increase possibilities for regional specialization and intensifica-
tion in agriculture. The proposed project conforms well with the country's
needs by contributing towards both export earnings (cotton) and import replace-
ment (cereals, tomatoes for paste production, forages for livestock and some
increase in oilseeds output), while adding some feeder roads and providing for
an additional water feasibility study.
Previous Projects in the Agricultural Sector
2.09      The Bank group has financed two projects in the agricultural sector,
both of them IDA credits, one for the development of fisheries and the other
for agricultural development in Wadi Hadramaut. Under the Fisheries Project
(Credit 370-YDR), IDA through a credit of US$3.5 million and a supplementary
credit of US$1.6 million to cover increased costs due to foreign and domestic
inflation, provided 100% of foreign expenditure for: (a) materials, machinery,
installation equipment and vehicles related to shore facilities; (b) civil
works for shore facilities; (c) engines, fishing gear, office equipment and
vessel hulls; (d) consultants' services relating to engineering and manage-
ment studies, and emoluments of operational personnel; and (e) consultants'
services relating to fisheries development, agricultural and water supply
studies. The project, although initially hampered because of various delays
in project implementation, is now progressing satisfactorily.
2.10      The Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural Project (Credit 615-YDR), became
effective on September 16, 1976. IDA through a credit of US$7.0 million,
provided 100% of the foreign expenditures and 74% of local expenditures for:
(a) agricultural equipment and supplies; (b) civil works involving equipment
for and construction of feeder roads and village water supply works; (c) a
date packing plant; (d) a feasibility study to determine water resources in
the area; (e) an experimental program on sand dune stabilization and optimiz-
ing date palms yield; and (f) technical assistance in the form of management
personnel, consultants and training of Yemeni personnel. Project implementa-
tion has been unexpectedly slow mainly because of difficulties experienced in
securing suitable expatriate personnel.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in the southern district of the second
Governorate of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (Map IBRD 13013).
Lahej, the capital of the Governorate and the center of the project area, is
approximately 40 km north of Aden, the capital of the country and a major
seaport. The project area covers the Wadi Tuban Delta and encompasses approx-
imately 10,000 ha of arable land (about 9% of the country's total), of which
2,100 ha are suitable for well irrigation and 8,000 ha can be spate irrigated.
There are 12 state farms operating on about 2,100 ha irrigated by 75 tubewells
supplemented by spate water in three farms. Crop production throughout the
year is possible on the farms. In the spate area there are 7 cooperatives
farming about 6,500 ha of which about 5,000 ha are usually flooded annually.



- 4 -
Only one crop per year, with high peak period demands for labor, is possible
in this area. The paved main road from Aden to the border of the Yemen Arab
Republic in the north passes directly through the project area. Feeder roads
linking villages in the area are mainly earth tracks and require the use of
four-wheel drive vehicles. Two cobbled feeder roads, constructed by Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), link Jawala State farm and the
tomato paste factory to the main road.
3.02      The villagers usually obtain their water for domestic and livestock
use from shallow wells. These wells tend to dry up and have to be continuously
deepened. The rural areas are not supplied with electricity for domestic use
but each state farm has electricity. School attendance is high for the six
years of compulsory education, but classroom facilities and teacher/pupil
ratios are not satisfactory. Education at the intermediate and college levels
is provided by Nasser Higher Institute of Agriculture at Lahej. Malaria is
the major disease in the area. Although there is one hospital and health
center at Lahej, health care and preventive medicine are inadequate in the
rural areas outside Lahej. There is a branch of the Institute of Health Man-
power Development (Aden) established in Lahej for training practical nurses.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area (Annex 2) is characterized by low
and erratic rainfall (less than 100 mm/year), high temperatures (average 24 C
daily in winter and 33 C in summer), relatively high humidity (annual average
66%) and long periods of sunshine (seven hours/day annual average). Winds of
10 to 20 km/hr. prevail throughout the year mainly during daytime. Evapora-
tion rate has an average value of 6.6 mm/day but may go above 9 mm/day in
mid-summer and as low as 2.8 mm/day in winter (Annex 2).
Soils and Topography
3.04      In the spate area the soils consist of deposits of silty materials
over the original sandy or gravelly soils. The deep deposits are usually
loams, silt loams or silty clay loams. In the perennial irrigated areas,
where there has been little or no deposition of silty materials, the soils
are generally sandy with occasional gravelly alluvial deposits.
3.05      In the heavy textured soils in the groundwater irrigated areas
salinity may build up, although it can easily be reduced by leaching with
high applications of water. All soils are deficient in nitrogen. Available
phosphorus and potassium in the spate areas are higher than in the perennial
irrigated areas (Annex 2). The soils in the spate and groundwater irrigated
areas are satisfactory and present no unusual problems.
3.06      The topography in the project is relatively flat with a north-south
slope of less than 1%.
Land Tenure, Cooperatives and State Farms
3.07      Under the Agrarian Reform Law of 1970, land ownership was limited
to 8 ha irrigated or 16 ha non-irrigated per primary family. Land in the



project area is now organized in cooperatives and state farms (Annex 4), the
latter being required by law to have a permanent source of irrigation water
(from wells), while the cooperatives are mainly spate-irrigated.
3.08      In the project area there are seven cooperatives, with 7,000 farm
families and a cultivable area averaging about 1.1 ha per farmer member.
Most individually operated holdings are between I ha and 2 ha. Six of the
cooperatives are of the Model 1 type, with individually operated farm hold-
ings in the context of collective responsibility for obtaining credit, and for
marketing produce. The one remaining is a Model 2 cooperative, with all means
of production (including livestock) collectively operated and members remuner-
ated on the basis of work shares. Each cooperative is administered by an
elected board of 7-10 members, with an elected chairman and secretary, as-
sisted by appointed accounting and technical staff. Tractors and farm equip-
ment are hired from the Machinery Rental Station (MRS). There is insufficient
equipment, however, to allow timely mechanized operations, and development
in the cooperatives is also hindered by lack of trained staff (especially in
accounting and record collection) and by inadequate technical assistance.
3.09      The twelve state farms in the project area have about 2,100 ha of
cultivable land and employ about 2,600 workers (Annex 4). Each farm has a
Government appointed manager responsible for supervising operations and hiring
labor. Crop plans are set by Government but are sometimes modified later by
consideration of the resources of a particular farm. Four of the farms in the
project area specialize in livestock production - dairying, sheep and goat
raising and beef fattening. The farms own most of their own machinery, but
they lack equipment appropriate to the tasks to be performed. In addition,
major improvements are required in the irrigation systems on state farms to
increase efficiency of water use, and they also have a shortage of technically
trained personnel.
Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.10      The area cultivated under spate-irrigation in the project area
varies widely depending on the seasonal flood, but averages about 5,000 hec-
tares. A program of land levelling and irrigation works being carried out
under bilateral aid, projected to be completed by 1981, is expected to improve
water use and allow an expansion of the average area spate-irrigated to 6,500
ha.  Approximately 60% of the area is sown to cotton, 30% to sorghum and 5%
each to watermelons and sesame. Practically no fertilizers are used on
spate-irrigated lands, while use of plant protection chemicals is confined
to cotton and, to some extent, watermelons. Yields are low, estimated at
about 0.7 tons/ha for cotton, 1.0 tons/ha of red sorghum grain (0.6 tons/ha
for white sorghum), 0.4 tons/ha of sesame and 10.0 tons/ha for watermelons.
Livestock are fed on stover and forages from the sorghum crops. Further
details of yields and production are in Annexes 2 and 11.
3.11      On the state farms, under perennial irrigation, about 2,000 ha are
cultivated with an intensity of 105%. The dominant crop is tomato (for paste
production) which takes up 50% of the total cultivated area, having displaced



- 6 -
the long staple cctton which was formerly grown. Sorghum for grain and forage
occupies 30% of the cultivated area, melons and a wide variety of vegetables
(mainly okra, eggplant, onion, pepper and potato) about 15%, and there are
small areas of maize, forage legumes and other crops. Fertilizers are used
to some extent on most crops, and a limited amount of plant protection
chemicals on tomato, melons and vegetables. Yields per hectare are estimated
to be as follows: sorghum forage 35 tons, legume forage 15 tons, maize grain
1.5 tons, watermelons 15 tons, tomatoes and vegetables 12 tons (Annex 2).
3.12      Also in the state farms there is a small orchard area of 105 ha,
consisting mainly of bananas yielding about 15 tons/ha and old mango trees
yielding about 8 tons/ha. The banana plantation is in the process of being
removed because of disease problems, and this entire area would be converted
into a new mango orchard under the project.
Agricultural Support Services
3.13      Research.  The strongest support service in the project area is the
on-going research program at the El Kod Research Center operated by Government
with assistance from FAO/UNDP. Over the past ten years, package programs have
been developed to increase production of cotton, sorghum, maize, tomatoes and
other vegetables. Another FAO/UNDP sponsored program operating in the Wadi
Tuban has demonstrated the effectiveness of improved cultural and irrigation
practices in increasing yields and conserving water when raising the crops
mentioned above. Project management will draw heavily upon the results of
these programs to implement the proposed development project. The forestry
and horticultural nurseries at El Kod will supply the seedlings for the
shelterbelts and orchards (Annex 2).
3.14      Extension.  At present there is no functional Extension Service in
MAAR, although Government intends to develop such a service. The DTDB in the
spate area has 18 persons designated as Extension Agents working with coop-
eratives. These agents, due to their training and technical support, are
functioning mainly as data collectors. Project management will have to train
and develop an effective Extension Service in order to implement the project.
It has been the lack of an Extension Service that has prevented the research
data on improved varieties, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals from
being applied in the project area.
3.15      Training facilities for agriculture and support services are avail-
able in and near the project areas. It is expected that through retraining
some of the present Extension Agents, selection of graduates from the Agricul-
tural Training Center at Giar and/or diploma graduates from Nasser Institute
at Lahej, in-service training and overseas training, an effective Extension
Service will be developed for the proposed project (Annex 2).
3.16      Credit.  The two major credit institutions are the National Bank
of Yemen (NBY) and the 1MAAR Agricultural Development Fund (ADF). The NBY
(Annex 1, Table 2), through its Industrial and Agricultural Advances Branch,
extends both short-term and medium-term credit, at interest rates between 5%



- 7 -
and 6%, to cooperatives and state farms. In addition, this Branch lends for
industrial purposes and to the Ministry of Fish Wealth, as well as extending
overdraft facilities to various marketing and industrial organizations. There
is an office of the NBY at Lahej in the center of the project area. Loans of
up to YD 10,000 may be approved by the General Manager of NBY, while those
greater than YD 10,000 must be decided upon by the Management Committee. To
obtain a loan, a cooperative's application must be approved by MAAR after
careful evaluation, and all loans are secured to NBY by the Ministry of
Finance. For non-prompt repayment of loans a penalty of 2 percentage points
is added to the basic interest rate. The Industrial and Agricultural Advances
Branch had loans outstanding at March 31, 1977 of YD 1.6 million, of which
only YD 17,000 (1%) were overdue. Facilities extended on a one-year renewable
basis, mainly to public marketing entities, totalled YD 5.3 million at March
31, 1977. The ADF (Annex 1, Table 3) whose capital comes mainly from Govern-
ment surpluses in the export of cotton, extends mainly medium-term credit at
interest rates of 1%-2% for purchase of equipment such as pumpsets and agri-
cultural machinery. Loans outstanding from the ADF to cooperatives and state
farms in the project area total about YD 162,000 (Annex 4, Table 1).
3.17      Marketing.  The former major export crop in the project area, long
staple cotton, was brought by farmers to collection centers of the former
Lahej Agricultural Development Board (LADB) where it was weighed and graded
before passing to the Board's ginnery. From the ginnery, cotton lint passed
to the National Company for Foreign Trade (NCFT). Government has recently
decided to replace long staple cotton in the spate-irrigated areas with medium
staple cotton in order to supply the textile factory at Dar Sa'ad. Long staple
cotton in the perennially irrigated areas has been displaced by tomatoes. In
the future, medium staple cotton surplus to the needs of the textile factory
will be exported. A recently established edible oil and feed production plant
in Aden processes cotton seed, and also sesame seed, a small amount of which
is grown in the project area.
3.18      Vegetables are collected by the Public Corporation for Marketing
Fruits and Vegetables (PCMFV) at two receiving stations in the Second Gover-
norate (one in Lahej, with 500-ton capacity) and sold through the Corpora-
tion's retail outlets in Aden and other localities. The PCMFV plans to have
four receiving stations and five selling stations in the Second Governorate
by the end of 1978. The Corporation's storage capacity in Aden totals 5,000
tons including 1,500 tons of cold storage, and a further 1,000 tons of cold
storage capacity is planned for the 1978/79 season. A fleet of about 70
trucks enables the PCMFV to operate a flexible collection and selling system.
There is scope for developing the sale of fresh vegetables to ships bunkering
in Aden harbor.
3.19      A tomato paste factory, about 17 km from Lahej, handles approxi-
mately two thirds of the current output from the area, with the balance being
sold as vegetables through the PCMFV. The factory's capacity of 120 tons of
tomatoes per day was about two thirds achieved in the Spring of 19?7.  During
the 1976/77 season, the factory processed more than 7,000 tons of tomatoes
and produced more than 6.8 million cans of paste (6 million of 150 gns and
800,000 of 450 gms). There is considerable scope for increasing the factory's
efficiency and also for using it in other seasons for vegetable canning.



3.20      The majority of cereals are produced for subsistence use, but the
marketed surplus is acquired and distributed by the National Company for
Home Trade (NCHT). Six storage silos were recently constructed south of
Lahej, in the project area.
3.21      The National Meat Corporation (NMC), with two slaughter houses in
Aden and Sheikh Othman, handled about 58,000 sheep and 2,000 cattle in 1976.
New cold storage facilities (440 tons capacity) are expected to be completed
by the end of 1977. So far the NMC has slaughtered mainly imported livestock,
but is taking output from the livestock state farms as their production ex-
pands. In addition, the NMC buys and sells live animals, some of which go
to state farms for breeding, and some to households and restaurants for their
own slaughter and use.
3.22      A system of official prices covers all major output from the project
area (Annex 11). Mtany of these prices were increased in early 1977 after re-
maining stable since 1973. Government control of the marketing function in
cooperatives, and also of most marketing institutions, allows the official
prices to hold and govern the exchange of most commodities.
3.23      Transportation.  The transport of goods in PDRY is also controlled
by Government. There are about 360 trucks (8-12 ton capacity) owned by fami-
lies and individuals, which in 1976 moved about 80%-85% (on a dry weight basis)
of the total goods carried in the country. Individual operators pay a commis-
sion to the Public Corporation for Land Transport (PCLT) which has its own
fleet of 110 (12 ton) trucks, as well as running the approximately 360 buses
used in the country. About 75% of the Corporation's commodity transportation
activities involve consumer goods (mainly foodstuffs). Standard rates are set
according to the road surface, as follows: Tarmac YD 0.075/ton/km, Sandy
Tracks YD 0.113/ton/km, and Rough Terrain YD 0.150/ ton/km. These rates are
said to cover about 75% of actual costs, with the balance being Government
subsidy.
3.24      Taxation.  On both cooperatives and state farms, the Government
levies a tax of 15% of the gross value of cotton, cereals, forages and tobacco,
proceeds of which go to the State Treasury. A similar levy is extracted from
the marketing margin of the PCMFV as a portion of the difference between its
buying and selling prices for vegetables. The latter difference averages more
than 50% of the buying prices, and ranges from 18% to more than 100%. A
further levy of 5% of the gross value of produce goes towards meeting admin-
istrative expenses of the cooperatives.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural pro-
duction and thereby farm income in Wadi Tuban Delta by increasing the cropping
intensity in the groundwater irrigated areas and crop yields through use of



- 9 -
modern inputs and improved cultural practices in both the groundwater and the
spate irrigated areas. Additional objectives are : (i) to construct feeder
roads to connect nine villages with the Aden-Lahej paved road; (ii) to provide
drinking water supply to six villages, which due to excessive depth of water
table in their vicinity do not possess a potable water supply source; (iii) to
maximize the use of available water by conducting a water management study for
ascertaining the safe yield of the aquifer, locating an alternate source of
potable water for Aden, examining the feasibility of using Aden's sewage
effluent for additional irrigation and developing a comprehensive water use
plan for the Wadi Tuban Delta; (iv) to recommend alternative policy instru-
ments to improve productivity, resource mobilization and income distribution
by conducting a study of agricultural prices, taxes and subsidies.
Description
4.02      The present knowledge of exploitable groundwater of the Wadi Tuban
Delta does not permit groundwater extraction exceeding the current with-
drawals (Annex 3). No horizontal extension of the perennial irrigation area
is, therefore, contemplated at this stage. Ample scope, however, exists in
the delta for raising crop production, by improving the efficiency of water
use, intensifying crop rotations, providing better extension services, in-
creasing use of inputs and improving cultural practices. The project works
(Annex 5) for improving water use efficiency will include: (i) constructing
buried pipe water distribution systems for an area of about 1755 ha to replace
the existing unlined water courses conducting tubewell water to the fields;
(ii) reorganizing basins and land-levelling on the same area; (iii) construct-
ing farm roads and providing wind breaks; (iv) replacing defective pumps and
diesel motors with electric motors; and (v) providing earth-moving equipment
for basin (levelling) improvement operations. To increase the agricultural
yields on 2,100 ha of perennially irrigated and 6,500 ha of spate irrigated
land will require (i) supply of about 1,515 tons of fertilizer and 49 tons
of plant protection chemicals to meet full requirements of one crop year plus
incremental requirements of the next three years of the project implementation
(Annex 8, Table 2); (ii) supply of about 40 agricultural tractors with imple-
ments and other machinery to DTDB and state farms to replace their obsolete
equipment and meet their additional needs (Annex 8, Table 6); and (iii) estab-
lishment of a mango orchard on 105 ha.
4.03      Potable water will be supplied to six villages with a population of
about 6,000 (Annex 5). The works to be done in this connection will include
construction of two tubewells, laying of sub-mains to connect the Lahej-Saber
water supply main to the said villages and providing stand pipes at convenient
points for supplying water to the population. About 22 km of feeder roads
(Annex 5) will be constructed to connect 9 villages in the project area with
Aden-Lahej paved roads to facilitate the movement of their farm inputs from
and outputs to the market centers. Presently, these villages are served with
earth tracks on which the movement of even four-wheel drive vehicles is a
problem. The maintenance of water works and feeder roads will be done by PWC
and PWD respectively.
4.04      Services of expatriate experts comprising an irrigation agronomist,
an extension specialist, a civil (irrigation) engineer, a farm management
specialist and a farm machinery expert will be provided to DTDB to help



- 10 -
achieve the projec.. objectives and train its staff. Overseas, training
facilities will also be provided to Yemeni project staff to improve their
knowledge and efficiency (Annexes 5 and 10).
4.05      A water management study to be carried out by a firm of consultants
is also included in the project. The objectives of the study will be to
refine the estimates of the available surface and ground water potential of
Wadi Tuban area, and to produce a long term water management plan for its
optimum use for agriculture development, household and industrial uses. The
study will, inter alia, include a feasibility study for utilizing Aden sewage
water for irrigating coastal areas around Sheikh Othman and Beir Ahmed and a
study for locating an alternative source of potable water supply for Aden city
as well as a land use association (LANDSAT) study of selected areas in the
territory of the Borrower, to identify areas with groundwater potential for
future agricultural development (Annex 6).
4.06      A study on agricultural price, taxation and subsidy policy systems
will be carried out by consultants. The objectives of the study will be to
propose recommendations outlining alternative policy instruments that could be
adopted and theirprojected effect on productivity, resource mobilization and
income distribution. An outline of the proposed study is given in Annex 7.
Engineering Status
4.07      The engineering aspects of the project will involve the lay-out and
hydraulic design of the buried pipe water distribution system, preparation of
the field levelling plans as well as the design of the village water supply
works and feeder roads. For estimating the irrigation improvement works, a 28
ha farm model was used. The work calculated using this model will approximate
the final layout design, since the average farm will not materially differ
from the model used. The engineering wing of the DTDB, which will be rein-
forced by an expatriate civil engineer and a qualified counterpart, will
develop detailed plans for each farm before implementing the program. The
alignments of the village water supply sub-mains and water distribution works
required within the villages have been determined by the PWC. The detailed
hydraulic designs will be made by the same organization before undertaking
the construction. The roads will follow the existing track alignments and
the standard design already developed for the area will be used.
Cost Estimates
4.08      The estimated total project cost, based on prices of mid-1977, is YD
4.2 million (US$12.3 million), including contingencies. The foreign exchange
component is estimated to be YD 3.3 million (US$9.6 million), or 79% of total
project cost. The costs of imported equipment and materials reflect interna-
tional market prices; costs of civil works have been estimated for current
force account practices in PDRY; and the estimates for consulting services are
based on recent contracts for similar assignments in the region. Physical
contingencies are 5% for most equipment (except for pipes and fittings for
which 15% has been allowed) and 15% for all civil works. Price contingencies
allow for annual increases in equipment costs of 7.5% in the period 1977-1979,
and 7% thereafter. They allow for annual increases in costs of civil works of
9% in the period 1977-1979 and 8% thereafter.  Total contingencies (physical



- 11 -
and price) are just over 38% of the base cost. No import duties are levied on
imports for public development projects. Project costs are summarized in the
table below, while detailed estimates are given in Annex 8.
Total Project Costs /1
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total           %
Item               ------YD thousand   -          ---US$ thousand-----   Foreign
Irrigation
Improvement
Equipment           -         904       904       -       2,622    2,622      100
Civil Works        333        287       620      966        832    1,798       46
Fertilizer and
Chemicals
Procurement
Costs              17        152       169       49        441      490       90
Agricultural
Machinery
Equipment Costs    -          337       337       -         977       977     100
Orchard and
Shelterbelts
Establishment
Costs              40         -         40      116         -       116       -
Project Manage-
ment
Equipment            4         39        43       12        113       125      91
Technical Assis-
tance              -         308       308       -        893       893      100
Training            -          54        54       -         156       156     100
Operating Costs   110          -        110      319         -       319       -
Water Supply
Equipment           -          50        50       -         145      145      100
Civil Works         23         24        47       67         69      136       51
Feeder Roads
Civil Works         57         24        81      165         70      235       30
Agricultural
Policies Study
Consultants         -          69        69       -         175      175      100
Water Study
Equipment           -          36        36       -         104      104      100
Consultants         20        184       204       58       534       592       90
Subtotal          604      2,468    3,072   1,752       7,131    8,883        80
Contingencies
Physical            86        281       367      249       815    1,064        77
Price              214        573       787      620     1,687    2,307        73
Totals            904      3,322    4,226   2,621       9,633   12,254        79
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 12 -
Financing
4.09      An IDA credit of US$5.2 million will finance about 52% of the
foreign costs (US$5.0 million) plus about 7% of local costs (US$0.2 million)
or 42% of the total project cost. A parallel loan of US$6.1 million expected
from an external source will finance the remaining 48% of the foreign costs
(US$4.6 million) plus about 57% of local costs (US$1.5 million). The Govern-
ment of PDRY will finance about US$1.0 million, all local costs, representing
about 36% of local costs or about 8% of total project costs. The financing
plan is summarized below:
Government      External Loan            IDA              Total
Components /1   Amount   %       Amount       %     Amount       %     Amount      %
--------------------------US$ million ------------------------
Irrigation
Improvement       0.0    0        5.6      100        0.0      0        5.6    100
Fertilizer and
Chemicals         0.1   10        0.0        0        0.5     90        0.6    100
Agricultural
Machinery         0.0    0        0.0        0        1.1    100        1.1    100
Orchard/
Shelter-
belts             0.1  100        0.0        0        0.0      0        0.1    100
Project MIan-
agement           0.4   20        0.0        0        1.6     80        2.0    100
Water Supply       0.1   26        0.0        0        0.3      74       0.4    100
Feeder Roads       0.2   70        0.0        0        0.1      30       0.3    100
Agricultural
Study             0.0    0        0.0        0        0.2    100        0.2    100
Water Study        0.0    0        0.0        0        0.9    100        0.9    100
Contingencies
(physical)        0.1    7        0.5       52       0.5      41        1.1    100
Total Project
Cost              1.0    8        6.1       50        5.2     42       12.3    100
/1   Price contingencies have been allocated to each component.
Implementation Schedule
4.10      The Project will be implemented in about four years in accordance
with the schedule in Chart WB 17904. Project activities will commence by
March 1978 and be completed by mid-1982. The estimated schedule of disburse-
ments is in Annex 9.
Procurement
4.09      Feeder roads and village water supply works (US$0.37 million exclud-
ing contingencies) are the only IDA-financed project elements involving civil
construction. The small size and scattered nature of these works makes them



- 1 3 -
unsuitable for international bidding. Since construction contractors in PDRY
are few in number and small in organization, these works will be carried out
on force account or under local negotiated contracts. The equipment and
imported materials required for these works, agricultural development and
project management (US$1.25 million); and fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals (US$0.49 million) will be procured through international competitive
bidding. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all the fertil-
izer, chemicals and equipment to be financed by IDA involving foreign exchange
expenditure will be procured through international competitive bidding follow-
ing "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits", except
for minor items (costing less than US$20,000 each) required for immediate use,
whose aggregate value will not exceed US$200,000, which will be procured under
Government procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Total value of goods to
be procured under ICB will be US$1.74 million (excluding contingencies) which
is 25 percent of the total foreign cost of the project (excluding contingen-
cies). Actual procurement will be performed by existing government agencies,
chiefly NCHT and NCFT.  For items financed by other external agencies, pro-
curement will be in accordance with their own guidelines.
Disbursements
4.12      The proposed credit of US$5.2 million will be disbursed over a 5-year
period (Annex 9) as follows:
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment
for Water Supply                        -  The actual foreign exchange costs of
(US$1.3 million)                            directly imported goods, or 85 per-
cent of costs of locally procured
goods.
Fertilizer and Chemicals                -  The actual foreign exchange costs of
(US$0.6 million)                            directly imported goods in the first
year, and in any subsequent year the
actual foreign exchange costs of
directly imported goods over and
above aggregate amounts imported in
the preceding year.
Project Management                      -  The actual foreign exchange costs of
(US$1.6 million)                           equipment, supplies, consultants, and
overseas training for project staff;
plus 20% of locally incurred costs.
Civil Works (Water Supply and           -  37% of total expenditures.
Feeder Roads)
(US$0.2 million)
Water Study                              -  100% of total expenLditures.
(US$0.9 million)



- 14 -
Agricultural Policies Study              -  100% of total expenditures.
(US$0.2 million)
Unallocated                             -  For contingencies.
(US$0.4 million)
Disbursement requests will be supported by required documentation. Any
savings that remain after project completion will be cancelled.
4.13      The loan from external sources of US$6.1 million (including all
contingencies) may be disbursed as follows:
Earth Moving Machinery and Other
Irrigation Equipment                    -  The actual foreign exchange costs of
(US$3.3 million)                           directly imported goods, or 85% of
costs of locally procured goods.
Civil Works (Irrigation)                -  100% of total expenditures
(US$2.8 million)
A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit will be the signing and rati-
fication of a loan agreement, whose terms and conditions will be acceptable
to IDA, with the other external source of financing.
Water Supply, Quality and Requirements
4.14      The average estimated annual run-off of Wadi Tuban at Al-Arais (apex
of delta area) is about 135 Mm3. Electric conductivity of run-off water is
low. The quantity and quality of water are both adequate for the proposed
spate irrigation under the project. As regards groundwater potential, the
volume of water saturated alluvium of Wadi Tuban Delta is estimated at 7300
Mm3. No precise assessment of the annual recharge is available. Studies
conducted by FAO indicate that annual recharge from the Wadi bed and spate
irrigated basins will lie between 40 Mm3 and 60 Mm3. The net extraction of
about 28.52 Mm3 under the proposed project with its increase in crop intensity
has been estimated to be practically the same as present net uses. The elec-
tric conductivity of the water in the existing irrigation wells lies in the
upper range of acceptable limits. The irrigated fields, however, show no
signs of salinity (Annex 3).
4.15      Apart from irrigation, 23 Mm3 is the estimated annual withdrawal
from the aquifer for potable water supply in the project area. The total net
withdrawals are, therefore, about 52 Mm3. The aquifer is thus taxed to its
recharge limit. Mining of the aquifer would lead to salt water intrusion.
It is, therefore, imperative that no additional tubewells, except for two
proposed under the project to replace shallow village water supply wells, be
drilled in the project area until the result of the water management study
included in the project is known. An assurance to this effect was obtained
during negotiations.



- 15 -
Riparian Rights
4.16      No riparian rights problems are anticipated in the area, although
Wadi Tuban has a substantial proportion (about 70%) of its contributing catch-
ment in the Yemen Arab Republic. This catchment is at higher elevations with
an average annual rainfall of over 500 mm.  The nature of the terrain and t'_
amount of rainfall it receives is such that the risk of any significant diver-
sion of the Wadi runoff by Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is negligible. The
project will not have any adverse effect on YAR as no work altering the wadi's
surface flow regime is proposed. Thus the consent of the YAR is not necessary.
Environmental Impact
4.17      The project will have no adverse effects on the physical environ-
ment. The planting of approximately 210 km of windbreaks will assist in
reducing sand encroachment on roads and arable farm lands. Through the provi-
sion of an improved water supply system in six villages, approximately 6,000
persons will benefit and have protection from the existing health hazards due
to the present inadequate and unwholesome water supply system. The feeder
roads to be constructed under the project will allow isolated villages easier
access to the only hospital and clinic in the region. Increased production
and availability of vegetables and proteins due to the project should help
improve the diet and health of the human environment. Although plant protec-
tion chemicals will be used, no adverse effects are expected. However, at
negotiations the Yemeni delegation was handed the Bank's guidelines indicating
the precautions to be taken in the use of plant protection chemicals. In
addition the extension agents, after training under the project would ensure
the safe handling and use of recommended plant production chemicals used by
farmers. The extension agents will, however, continue to make observations
for any possible detrimental effects.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization, Management and Technical Assistance
5.01      Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Delta Tuban
Development Board (DTDB), the successor of the Lahej Agricultural Devel-
opment Board (LADB) (Annex 10, Chart WB 17755), which is directly responsible
to the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR). The Permanent
Secretary of MAAR is Chairman of the Board. The daily control of DTDB is in
the hands of a general manager appointed by the Board. The general manager is
assisted by the heads of five sections, namely Agriculture, Cotton Ginnery,
Accounting, MRS and the Secretariat (Annex 10 and Chart WB 17523). In order
to effectively carry out the project, the DTDB will assume full control over
the project staff and equipment to be employed in the Wadi Tuban Delta. The
statutes enable Lihe Board to appoint and assign project control zcu &^paLriate
staff, expand and develop an extension service, design and supervise construc-
tion of civil works, plan the planting programs in cooperatives and state
farms, undertake the distribution of inputs for the whole project area, and
provide administrative and accounting support to and supervision of the state
farms and cooperatives.



- 16 -
5.02      The project will be headed by an expatriate project manager who will
be selected from the five expatriate specialists provided for the project,
namely an irrigation agronomist (4 years), an irrigation (civil) engineer
(3-1/2 years), an extensionist (3-1/2 years), a farm machinery expert (2
years) and a farm management specialist (2 years). The project manager will
be employed either directly or through an international organization or a
firm in consultation with and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The project manager will report directly to the Chairman of the DTDB through
the General Manager. The project manager will be assisted by two qualified
counterparts with basic degrees in agriculture. One counterpart will serve
as co-project manager. The other counterpart will assist with administrative
tasks. The initial and any subsequent appointment of each counterpart will be
in consultation with IDA. The appointment of the project manager and his two
counterparts will be a condition of effectiveness.
5.03      The four other expatriate specialists will be employed either
directly or through a firm in consultation with the project manager and IDA
and will be employed by Government on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
not later than August 31, 1978. Each specialist will be assisted by at least
one qualified agricultural Yemeni graduate. The initial and any subsequent
appointment of each counterpart will be subject to the approval of the project
manager. In addition to at least one counterpart, the extension specialist
will be assigned not less than twenty-one extension agents, nine for the spate
area and twelve for the perennially irrigated area. The appointment of the
extension agents will be subject to the approval of the extension specialist
and accomplished no later than December 31, 1978. In order to make training,
organization and operation easy, however, at least 10 of the extension agents
will be made available for appointment within one month of the assignment
of the expatriate extension director. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained in respect to the above. Details on the structure, organization
and duties of the members of the DTDB are presented in Annex 10 and WB Chart
17523.
5.04      The DTDB, being responsible for project implementation, will carry
out the engineering and planning of the project irrigation works, agricultural
activities, budget preparation, input distribution, and after approval by the
MAAR, its timely execution. The DTDB will through its extension service pro-
vide technical support and advice to the state farms and cooperatives through
its extension service, carry out regular maintenance of tubewells, as well
as the spate irrigation distribution system, and provide administrative and
accounting support and supervision of state and cooperative farms. The DTDB
will maintain liaison with El Kod Research Station and the Demonstration Farm
being proposed for Wadi Tuban. The DTDB will prepare contract documents,
including technical specifications, for all project procurement, but the
actual procurement will be through the National Company for Foreign Trade
(NCFT). Government uses NCFT as its sole importing agency. The construc-
tion of feeder roads and rural water supply schemes will be arranged by DTDB
through PWD and PWC either by force account or under negotiated contract with
the agencies. The DTDB will procure and install electric motors which will
replace the remaining diesel engines on existing wells. An assurance was



- 17 -
obtained from Government that extension of the overhead power distribution
lines required will be carried out by the Public Corporation for Electric
Power (PCEP). Operation of the tubewells and pipe distribution will be under
the control of each farm manager, who will be advised by DTDB.
5.05      The project will supply the full requirements of fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals for the first year. Since the project will furnish
only the incremental requirement of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals
for years two, three and four, Government will have to procure the base
requirements of these inputs for the three years in question. During nego-
tiations, assurance was obtained that Government will procure from its own
resources the required fertilizers and plant protection chemicals in a timely
manner.
5.06      US$1.9 million of the project funds will be channelled through the
NBY which will on-lend these funds as short-term and medium-term loans (para
5.13). The remainder of the project funds will be disbursed through DTDB as
direct project expenditures. The signing and ratification of a subsidiary
loan agreement between Government and the NBY on terms and conditions accept-
able to IDA covering funds to be on-lent by NBY will be a condition of effec-
tiveness.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      The continued and timely supply of fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals is the most important maintenance aspect of the project. Their
requirements will be determined from year to year and, in general, will
approximate the quantities consumed in the last year of project implementa-
tion (present estimated value US$0.6 million). Assurance was obtained during
negotiations that after the first year of operation and throughout the life
of the project, Government will procure from its own resources and annually
distribute to the farmers in the project area, fertilizers and plant protec-
tion chemicals in an amount equivalent to at least those levels at which such
inputs were applied in the last year of project implementation.
5.08      All agricultural equipment, whether owned by DTDB (MRS) or by the
state farms, will be maintained by MRS, which is well equipped to do this.
MRS will also provide tractor operators, whenever such equipment is rented
out by MRS to cooperatives. The current rental rates are low and do not cover
actual operation and maintenance costs. These rates will have to be approxi-
mately doubled to fully recover the actual operating and maintenance costs,
and will have to be increased further if the capital cost of the equipment
was to be recovered from the users. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that full operation and maintenance costs will be recovered in MRS
rental charges. Incremental farmers' income generated by the project, with
equipment rental rates doubled will be about US$94, with an overall cost
recovery index of 61%, as shown by further cost recovery analysis (Annex 12,
Tables 1 and 4). Estimated per capita incomie at full devclopment will still
be less than half of the Critical Consumption Level (CCL). Low levels are
partly due to unfavorable cost price relations for the main cash crop--cotton.
Without a change in Government's cotton price policy, further increases in
machinery rental will leave insufficient incentives to project farmers (paras.
6.13-6.14).



- 18 -
5.09      Pumpse. are operated by the state farms, but are maintained by MRS.
The present annual charge for this service is also insufficient to cover the
actual maintenance costs and will have to be increased in order to recover,
in full, the actual maintenance and repair costs. Irrigation distribution
systems constructed under the project on state farms will be operated and
maintained by state farms. The DTDB will continue to operate and maintain
irrigation structures in the spate-irrigated areas. Irrigation levies in
these areas, however, will remain at present levels, since raising them to
recover full operation and maintenance costs will leave insufficient incen-
tives to small farmers (cf. para 5.08). During negotiations, an assurance
was obtained that MRS will increase its rates for pumpset maintenance to at
least recover its actual operation and maintenance costs. Also, it was
confirmed during negotiations that state farms will operate and maintain their
own irrigation distribution systems; and that DTDB will continue to operate
and maintain irrigation structures in the spate-irrigated areas.
5.10      The feeder roads and the rural water supply schemes will be main-
tained by PWD and PWC, respectively, with the assistance of some of the
equipment provided under the project. The communities benefiting from the
rural water supply will through payment of water charges contribute to the
coverage of operation and maintenance costs of the system in proportion to
volumes consumed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
project facilities will be properly maintained, with necessary charges being
determined and collected.
Technical Assistance and Training
5.11      There is a total of 270 man-months of technical assistance (US$2.1
million) allocated in the proposed project. The terms of reference for the
specialists who will support the DTDB are presented in Annex 10, para 16. A
total of 180 man-months of time will be involved. In addition, funds have
been allocated for approximately 63 man-months of overseas training for the
extension officers and 60 man-months for the counterparts in project related
disciplines, Training will be of a practical nature and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the training program and candidates will be
satisfactory to IDA and the Government.
5.12      The project provides for a water management study to be carried
out by a consulting firm satisfactory to Government and IDA whose terms of
reference are presented in Annex 6. Approximately 70 man-months are allocated
for the study, scheduled to be completed over a 27 months period. A further
allocation of 20 man-months was made for an agricultural policies study to be
completed within the first year of project implementation. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that Government will appoint consultants for the
studies on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Credit
5.13      Of the total credit of US$5.2 million, about US$1.9 million (YD
649,000), or 16% of total project costs, will be on-lent by NBY as short-term
and medium-term loans to cooperatives, state farms and the MRS. NBY will
repay the Government over 12 years (including 2 years of grace) with an



- 19 -
interest rate of not less than 3% p.a. Of the total of YD 649,000, short-term
lending will be about 36% (YD 236,000) and medium-term lending about 64% (YD
413,000). Short-term (seasonal) loans will be extended to the state farms
and cooperatives for fertilizer and plant protection chemicals, mostly in
kind, at an interest rate of 6%, in line with rates currently charged to
cooperatives and state farms by NBY (para 3.16). Medium-term (5 to 7 years)
loans will be made at 5-1/2 interest, to the MRS and state farms for agricul-
tural equipment, again mostly in kind. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that short-term and medium-term loans will be extended at interest
rates of not less than 6% and 5-1/2% respectively, and that any future upward
adjustments in the interest rates on NBY loans will also be applied to sub-
loans extended under the project.
5.14      Since the MRS does not have a depreciation fund and will be able
to increase its rental rates only to levels required to cover operating and
maintenance costs (para 5.08), it will not be possible for MRS to repay the
subloans received under this project and to arrange equipment replacements
whenever these became necessary. Government will therefore have to provide
financial support to the MRS corresponding to the annuity due on subloans
recevied from project funds. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from Government that: (a) it will give financial assistance to the MRS cor-
responding to the annuity due on their subloans in respect of agricultural
equipment; (b) it will undertake to finance from its own resources future
replacements of agricultural equipment and pumpsets for the project area,
whenever such replacements became necessary; and (c) MRS rental rates will
be reviewed and readjusted periodically, at intervals of not more than three
years, so as to achieve the maximum practicable cost recovery. The review
will cover all major cost-determining factors, including interest rates
on agricultural credits, production taxes and government subsidies.
Recovery of Costs
5.15      Of the total project investment, 16% (US$1.9 million) will be in
short-term and medium-term loans. The short-term loans and about 69% of the
medium-term loans will be recovered from project beneficiaries, while the
remaining 31% of the medium-term loans (those to MRS) will be recovered
through government support (para 5.14). Another 12% (US$1.4 million) of
project funds will be invested in rural water supply (4%) and the water study
(8%). There will be no investment cost recovery for village water supply, in
keeping with government policy. The water study and the agricultural policies
study will not result in quantifiable benefits and therefore no direct recovery
of cost would be required. Investment in feeder roads (3%) (US$0.4 million)
and in project management (18%) (US$2.1 million) will be recovered through
general taxation on increased production. Investment in irrigation improve-
ments (51%) (US$6.1 million) will be recovered by the Government from state
farms over a 20-year period, with interest of 5% p.a. To summarize: of total
project investment, 65% will be recovered from beneficiaries in full with
interest, 21% will be recovered through general taxation, and the remaining
14% will not be recovered. Operation and maintenance costs of irrigation on
state farms will be met in full by state farms, but irrigation levies in spate



- 20 -
irrigated areas will remain at present levels, since raising them to recover
full O&M costs will leave insufficient incentive to small farmers (para 5.09).
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government will recover the
short-term and medium-term loans as outlined above, and will recover invest-
ments in irrigation improvements in state farms in full over 20 years with
interest of 5% p.a.
Accounts and Audit
5.16      All organizations connected with project implementation, e.g. NBY,
DTDB, MRS, PWD and PWC, will maintain separate accounts of all project expend-
itures relating to their respective agencies, and will have such accounts
audited annually by the Central Organization for Audit, which has this respon-
sibility by law. In addition, the Central Organization for Audit will examine
disbursement applications for force account work under the project, to check
that goods and services have been procured in member countries (where applic-
able), that goods have been received and work performed, that payment has been
made, and that goods and services are eligible for financing and have been
used in the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project
and subloan accounts will be established and maintained by the organizations
concerned; that these accounts will be audited annually; and that a copy of
the audited annual accounts along with the auditor's opinions regarding dis-
bursement applications for force account work will be sent to IDA within six
months of the close of each PDRY fiscal year.
Monitoring
5.17      During and following project implementation, DTDB will maintain
records of all inputs furnished to cooperatives and state farms, production
costs, prices received and will also collect yield data and other relevant
information. DTDB will also be required to prepare quarterly progress
reports following a format satisfactory to Government and IDA. The quarterly
progress reports will be submitted to MAAR and copied to IDA during and up
to five years after project completion.  Evaluation will be done bv nTDB.  In
addition, DTDB will prepare a completion report using an outline to be agreed
upon with IDA and submit this report to IDA within six months of the closing
date of the project. Assurances in regard to the points mentioned above were
obtained from Government at negotiations.
5.18      The MAAR will keep a continuous record of the groundwater table at
state farms and PWC at potable water supply well fields in order to regulate
the operation of wells to prevent mining of the aquifer and the possibility
of salt water intrusion. MAAR will make the groundwater table data available
to IDA for a period extending not less than 5 years after project implementa-
tion. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
5.19      Since production records will be maintained by DTDB, it may be
possible to increase production by introducing a system of recognition for
specific achievements. An award could be given to the cooperative and state
farm that reaches or exceeds the annual yield levels established for each year



- 21 -
for the major crops (Annex 2, Table 2). Another method could be the awarding
of cups or ribbons each year for the cooperative and state farm with the
highest average yield for specific crops.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
6.01      In the groundwater irrigated areas of the project covering 2,100 ha,
intensive cultivation, use of improved inputs, and changes in the cropping
pattern and new cultural practices are expected to make a significant increase
in production. The projected yields are based on the results of the package
programs developed by the El Kod Research Station and demonstrated in the field
at the Wadi Tuban State Farm, both UNDP sponsored programs. It has been shown
that the package program can more than double the average present yields with
less water than is currently being used. To be on the conservative side in
the economic analysis, in the groundwater irrigated area and the spate region,
yields without project are present yields and assumed to remain at this level
in the future. Without fertilizers, adequate pest control and no change in
cultural practices, however, yields would undoubtedly decline in time. Data
on the area, yields and production, with and without project in the ground-
water irrigated areas, are presented in the table below. The projected
yields for the major crops in the fourth year of the project are approxi-
mately 50% of current research yields. Details on yield increases and inputs
are found in Annex 2.



- 22 -
Area, Yields and Production With and Without Project
Groundwater Irrigated Areas
With Project
Without Project                                  Increased
Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield  Production  Production
Crop              (ha) (mt/ha)    (mt)        (ha) (mt/ha)    (mt)          (mt)
Annual Crops
Cotton            100    0.7         70        -       -         -            -
Tomatoes        1,000   12.0    12,000        650   27.0    17,550         5,500
Vegetables        150   12.0      1,800       400   27.0    10,800         9,000
Melon, water-
melon            150   15.0      2,250       250   27.0      6,750        4,500
Maize              50    1.5          75      650    3.5      2,275        2,200
Sorghum
(grain)          120    1.0        120        -      -          -            -
Sorghum
(grain and              1.0        130        -      -          -            -
forage)          130    3.0        390        -      -          -            -
Sorghum
(forage)         350   35.0    12,250        490   80.0    39,200        26.950
Forage
legumes           12   15.0        180       450   22.0      9,900        9,720
Other              43      -         -         -       -         -            -
Planted
area           2,105                       2,890
Land area       2,000                       2,000
Crop
intensity        105%                        145%
Perennial
Crops
Bananas            50   15.0        750        -      -          -            -
Mango (old)        55    8.0        440        -      -          -            -
Mango (new)        -       -         -        105   30.0      3,150        2,710
6.02      In the spate irrigated areas the land levelling program which is
expected to be completed by the end of 1981 with bilateral aid will increase
the area available for cultivation. The application of improved practices
and use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals under the project will
bring about a substantial increase in production. The alluvial soils in the
spate area are deficient apparently only in nitrogen. Thus the application
of urea will stimulate root growth enabling all plants to exploit moisture
and nutrients from a deeper level than they otherwise would. As a result,
top growth should reflect improved root development and the larger plants
with their higher yields would be protected by pesticides. Data on the area,
yields and production, with and without project, are presented in the table
below. Details on yield increases and inputs are found in Annex 2. Since
the proposed program will only supply inputs and extension service activities



- 23 -
it could function even without the completion of the land levelling program.
Land levelling activities are confined to the season without spate flow
during which no cultivation takes place.
Area, Yields and Production With and Without Project
Spate Irrigated Areas
With Project
Without Project                                  Increased
Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield  Production  Production
Crop              (ha) (mt/ha)    (at)        (ha) (mt/ha)    (mt)         (mt)
Cotton M.S.      3,000    0.7      2,100    3,000    1.2       3,600       1,500
Red Sorghum      1,100    1.0      1,100    1,100    1.8       1,980         880
White Sorghum      400    0.6        240       400    1.2        480         240
Watermelon         250   10.0      2,500       250   19.0      4,750       2,250
Sesame             250    0.4        100       250    0.7        175          75
Planted Area    5,000                       5,000
Land Area        5,000                       5,000
Crop Intensity    100%                         100%
Livestock
6.03      In the Wadi Tuban Delta practically every farm family owns several
head of livestock. All breeds are local and it is estimated that there are
10,000 head of cattle and 30,000 head of sheep and goats in the Wadi. The
livestock are fed forage produced on the farm and crop residues. They also
graze on crop stubble and the sheep and goats graze on the range. Since feed
is limited, productivity is low.
6.04      The Government in recent years, in order to overcome to some extent
its dependency on imported livestock products, has sought to upgrade the
national stock and develop livestock production farms. Through bilateral
assistance, approximately 2,000 Friesian and Boran cows have been imported
from East Africa and an artificial insemination program has been developed.
Selected breeds of Somali and Pakistani sheep and goats have also been im-
ported. In the project area there have recently been developed state farms
that specialize in livestock production such as dairy, beef fattening, sheep
and goats. The change in the cropping pattern and the increase in crop pro-
duction in the groundwater irrigated areas has been designed to a large extent
to provide feed for the animals on these farms (Annex 2).
Markets
6.05      No marketing problems are foreseen with the project.  Domestic
production of vegetables, cereals and fodder crops falls short of demand.
With the exception of cotton, most of the incremental production from the pro-
posed project will be absorbed by the domestic market (Annex 11). Increased
tomato production will be processed into paste or sold as fresh vegetables.
Any vegetables which cannot be taken up by the local fresh market will be



- 24 -
canned in an existing factory at Fiyush which has surplus capacity, or will
be sold to ships bunkering in Aden harbor. Increments to cereal production
will represent about 4% of cereal imports in 1976 and will substitute for
imports. Additional production of forage and fodder will lead to increased
livestock production which will also substitute for imports. Cotton will be
absorbed by the local textile factory, with any amount incremental to this
factory's needs being exported.
Prices
6.06      Farm gate and consumer prices for all major agricultural commodities
are fixed by Government, and a new announcement in early 1977 increased some
prices which had been held constant since 1973. These prices are mostly
uniform throughout the country and normally do not allow variations on account
of differences in quality of produce. In the economic analysis, prices for
cereals, cotton and fertilizers are based on import parity prices derived from
projections provided by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Depart-
ment; economic prices of other commodities are estimated. Both economic and
financial prices are given in Annex 13, Table 2.
Subsidies and Taxes
6.07      Subsidies.  No depreciation funds have been established for replace-
ment of equipment supplied to state farms and the MRS. Rates at which agri-
cultural equipment is rented out by the MRS are about 47% of estimated opera-
tion and maintenance costs (varying with the operation, since actual costs
vary, while the rental charge is fixed at YD 0.650 per hour for a 70 HP
tractor). There is also a substantial subsidy in the annual fee charged by
MRS for the maintenance of irrigation pumps and engines. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that full operation and maintenance costs will be
recovered in rental charges of the MRS, and that all fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals will be sold at their actual cost to project beneficia-
ries. Subsidies thus reduced on machinery of the MRS will amount to an esti-
mated YD 13,000 (US$38,000) per annum. However, Government will incur respon-
sibilities for loan repayment and machinery replacement (para 5.14).
6.08      Taxes.  Government levies a 15% tax on gross value of production of
cotton, cereals and forages. There is also a levy on gross value of vege-
tables, collected from the marketing margin of the PCMFV. A further levy of
5% on gross value of production in cooperatives covers administrative costs of
a public nature incurred by these bodies. Public revenues from these sources
are expected to increase from about YD 158,000 (US$458,000) per annum to about
YD 369,000 (US$1.1 million) per annum or by 134%.
Producer Income
6.09      Two representative farm budgets have been prepared to illustrate
project effects--one for a typical small farm of 1 ha in the spate irrigated
area, operated as a family farm under cooperative arrangements (Model 1, Annex
12, Tables 1 and 4), the other for a 200 ha state farm in the groundwater
irrigated area (Model 2, Annex 12, Tables 2 and 5).



- 25 -
6.10      For the spate farm area the average farm size is about 0.77 ha of
cultivated land (fluctuating from year to year depending upon available water
flow from the Wadi). Farm size data indicate an egalitarian agrarian struc-
ture--98% of holdings are less than 3 ha, 1.6% between 3 and 5.9 ha and only
0.4% are 6 ha or above; no holdings are larger than 16 ha. Income generated
from about 6 ha will be equivalent to the Critical Consumption Level (CCL).
Thus 99.6% of the 7,000 farm families (36,000 persons), the beneficiaries in
spate irrigated farms, will still remain below the CCL at full development.
The income projections are as follows:
Without Project  Full Development   Percent
or 1976             or 1983       Increase
--- ---------- US$ per capita --------------
Relative poverty level /a                  75.0                106.1           41
Absolute poverty level /a                 140.0                197.4           41
Farm income in project area
after taxes and levies                   29.0                 47.9           65
National average income /a                280.0                393.8           41
/a   Assumed to increase by 5.0% p.a. in real terms.
Practically all beneficiaries on spate irrigated farms will be. in the target
group, defined as those below the Relative Poverty Level.
6.11      In the groundwater irrigated area the state farms average 175 ha in
size, but seven of the twelve have areas of 170 ha or more. These state farms
employ approximately 2,600 workers, whose incomes will increase by 35% due to
an increase in employment from 81 to 108 days annually. The income projec-
tions are as follows:
Without Project  Full Development   Percent
or 1976             or 1983       Increase
--- ---------- US$ per capita --------------
Relative poverty level /a                  75.0                106.1           41
Absolute poverty level /a                 140.0                197.4           41
Fann workers' income                       31.8                 43.0           35
National average income /a                280.0                393.8           41
/a   Assumed to increase by 5.0% p.a. in real terms.
6.12      The calculated rent and cost recovery indices (Annex 12, Tables 4
and 5) are as follows:



- 26 -
Rent Recovery   Cost Recovery
-- - - - - - -  %-- - - - - -
Spate irrigated area                             49                61
Groundwater irrigated area                       67                56
Overall indices                             62               57
6.13       Substantial increases in cotton prices will need to be paid to
farmers in order to increase their incomes to the Relative Poverty Level.
Based on the spate irrigated area, the structure of returns and costs is
as follows:
YD/ha
Gross production:                                     82.2
of which:                cotton:                    42.0
other cash:                14.2
subsistence:               26.0
Production costs:                                     17.6
Taxes and fees:                                       13.4
Net farm income (family)                            51.2
Relative Poverty Level (family)                      133.1
Thus, at present, the price paid to farmers of YD 100/ton for medium staple
unginned cotton (US$290/ton) will have to be raised to YD 315/ton (or US$913/
ton) to increase their farm incomes to the Relative Poverty Level. This price
level will be 62% above the present economic price of US$563/ton.
6.14      At full development, the farm gate price of medium staple unginned
cotton will have to be YD 252/ton (or US$732/ton) to bring the farmers' in-
come to the Relative Poverty Level for that period as compared with YD 100/ton
(or US$290/ton) at present levels. This price will be 34% above the world
level price; however, a moderate price increase of 7% will suffice to enable
farmers to repay the full capital cost of MRS equipment (para. 5.08).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The project will increase the annual gross value of agricultural
production (in economic prices) by about 107% and the net value added by about
218%. There will be a net annual saving in foreign exchange of about US$1.2
million, discounting any expansion in demand induced by increased incomes,
and there will be an increase in the volume of public revenues of about 134%
(para 6.08). The water study will produce data which could result in a



- 27 -
further expansion and intensification of irrigated agriculture in the area.
The DTDB, with its extension and management capabilities built up by technical
assistance and training under the project, will be an important institution
in the area. The agricultural policies study will provide the Government with
a choice of alternative policy instruments to improve farm incomes.
7.02      Principal beneficiaries of the project will be the 7,000 families
in production cooperatives, or about 36,000 persons. On the state farms,
which have about 2,600 employees, the increase in work with the project will
be about 79,000 days per annum. Feeder roads will link about nine villages
to the main road, and the health of some 6,000 persons will be improved in
the seven villages served by the new water supply schemes. About 200,000
days of work will be created by construction during the project period, and
an increase of 326,000 days per annum on farms following completion of the
project, about 24% of which will be on state farms. The majority of the
36,000 principal beneficiaries are estimated to be in the target group,
defined as those whose annual income is below the Relative Poverty Level
of US$75 (para 6.09).
Economic Evaluation
7.03      In performing economic analysis, the benefits arising from an expan-
sion of cultivated area in the spate-irrigated portion of the project have
been omitted, because these benefits are partially attributable to land level-
ling and other works being carried out under bilateral aid (see para. 3.10).
In addition, no allowance has been made for benefits from the infrastructural
components of feeder roads and water supply. The economic rate of return under
these assumptions is estimated to be 24% (Annex 13). Economic rates of return
for the project excluding infrastructure and the water and agricultural policy
studies will be 27%, and for the spate-irrigated areas, perennially irrigated
area and orchard development respectively would be 52%, 22% and 29% (Annex 13).
7.04      Sensitivity analysis for the whole project (excluding infrastructure)
showed that a simultaneous increase in costs of 20% and decrease in benefits
of 20% would reduce the economic rate of return to 12%. The combination of
events which could give rise to this result is unlikely to occur in practice.
For the perennially irrigated area alone, a decrease in the benefit stream by
25% would reduce the rate of return to 13%. Assuming a set of circumstances
which is unlikely to occur in practice, equivalent to decreasing the benefit
stream by 40%, the rate of return in the perennially irrigated area alone
would fall to 8% (Annex 13).
Project Risks
7.05      There are no major risks inherent in the project.  Under the project
a water management study is being proposed with its major objectives being to
refine the estimates of surface and groundwater potential and the recharge rate
of the aquifer. The project as designed does not utilize more water than is
currently being consumed for agricultural purposes (para 4.12 and Annex 3,
para 8). If the proposed study indicates that there is mining of the aquifer,



- 28 -
this would have no effect on agricultural production in the spate region but
irrigation intensity in the state farms (groundwater irrigated area) would
probably be adjusted. However, if this were to result in a lowering of the
benefit stream in the groundwater irrigated area even by as much as 25%, the
sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic rate of return for this
component would be lowered only to 13% (para 7.04). This would not, however,
significantly reduce the 24% economic rate of return for the project as a
whole. A possible risk could be the delay in the appointment of expatriate
personnel, particularly the project manager. However, to safeguard against
this, the appointment of the project manager and his two counterparts has been
set down as a condition of effectiveness.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached and assurances were
obtained on the principal issues referred to in Chapters 4, 5 and 6. Subject
to the conditions of effectiveness described in paras. 4.13, 5.02 and 5.06,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.2 million on standard terms.
The borrower will be the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



ANTNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
COpntry Background and Agriculture Sector
Item                                          Unit              Amount
Area,                                                   km 2             338,100
Population
Total (Estimated, January 1977)                   persons          1,770,000
Rural and Nomads (Estimated, January 1977)        persons          1,186,000
Growth Rate (1976)                                   %p.a.                2.7
:Density (on total land)                        persons/km2               5.2
Density (on arable land)                        persons/km             1,600
Income
rFotal GNP (1975)                               YD million                142
% GNP arising in Agriculture and
Fisheries (1974)                                 %                     19
1GNP per capita (1976)                           YD (us$)             97 (280)
GDP growth rate in 1974 prices (1970-1975)         %p.a.                  4.7
Growth rate of Agriculture's contribution to
GDP, in 1974 prices (1970-1975)                  %p.a.                  3.8
Exports
Total (1975)                 /1                 US$ million              11.4
Agricultural Products (1975)-                   US$ million               4.8
Fishery Products (1975)                         US$ million               4.8
Imports
Total (1975)                 /1                 US$ million             172.3
Agricultural Products (1975)                    US$ million              68.7
Land Areas
Arable Area (0.3% of total land area)             hectares           110,000
Well-Irrigated Area                               hectares             26,000
Spate-Irrigated Area                              hectares             84,ooo
State Farms (number =37)                          hectares             7,200
Cooperatives (number =42)                         hectares            85,200
/1 For selected details, see Annex 11 , Tables 1-2.



APPRAISAL OF
OIAfS I084 AOSCLLT EIOILAL OS100IOPYPNT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEM7COATIC 0F YEMEN
Agricultural Production-
(Area is thoousand acres and epeoduccion in thsossand tone)
Sorgh-e and
Cotta.,       Sesame              Wheat              Darley         Other gh man           Fodders             Coffer             Tobacco           Vegetables       Potatoes      Encumbers           Bansan            Papayss           Dates
Crop         Pro-               Pra-               Pro-                pro-               Pre-               Pro-                Pro-               Pro-               Pro-        Pro-                Pro-               Pro-             Pro-        Prm-
Year /2   duction   Area   duction   Area   drtion    Area   ductins Area   d-otioc   Area    d-etiot Aco ddutct Area    d-cioc   Ar                                 dotio    dutio         Arca    dactlon   Area   du-tion Area   dsctioe    dcrtioa
1969/70    12.8       10.0      3.4      18.0      iZ.0    3.0         2.0      30.9     57.0      17.2      210      1.5      0.80       1.5      1.40      7.5      15          __        2.0      10.0       1.2      12.0   0.5        3.5         34
1970/71     15.3      10.0      3.4      18.0      12.5    3.0         2.0      90.3    57.0       17.2      210      1.5      0.80       1.5      1.40      7.5      15          __        2.0      10.0       1.3      13.0   0.44       3.1         33
1971/72    12.1       10.0      3.4      22.0      15.5    3.0         2.0    105.0    66.2        17.2      226      1.5      0.81       1.5      1.35      9.0      36.5        0.3       2.6      39.0       1.6      1B.5   0.7        4.4         32
1972/73    13.2       10.2      3.4      24.0      16.8    3.0         2.0    110.0    69.4         7.5      244      1.5      0.81       1.5      1.35      8.0      30.7        0.7       1.4      21.0       1.6      10.7   0.7        2.2         31
1973/74    10.3       10.2      3.5       -        17.7       -        2.0    140.0Lt  70.3        17.7      264      1.5      0.81       1.5      1.35      9.0      45.0        0.9       2.0      30.0       1.6      18.0   0.7        4.0         30
1974/75      -        10.2      3.5      28.8      20.8    3.2         2.1    114.0    72.0         -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -           -         -         -              -           -         -           -
/1   - =-cot sahbaible;  -- - zero.
/2   Crop year is ulsualy .lly tc  April fto  cotton, October to April fr uhea.t, barley sod *esame, and February to July for sorghupp
/3   All ccrcale iu 1973/74.
Source:  Ministry of Agricultore sod Agrarian Referee end IBRD osifmates.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Consolidated Balance Sheet of ITational Bank. of Yemen
December                                   September
1969     1970      1971      1972      1973      1974         1974      1975
-_____-- --_------------- YD million ---------------------------------
Liabilities
Total deposits, of which:                       13.82    13.97    15.70    16.53    20.29    23.67            24.14    29.10
Government deposits: Demand                ( 0.08)  ( 0.04)  ( 0.45)  ( 0.47)  ( 2.34)   ( 2.54)          ( 2.06)  ( 2.91)
Time                 ( 1.71)  ( 0.24)  ( 1.22)  ( 1.16)  ( 1.31)   ( 1.80)         ( 1.69)  ( 1.83)
Other deposits: Demand                     ( 5.59)  ( 4.57)  ( 5.85)  ( 6.03)  ( 7.73)  (10.29)           (11.54)  (13.61)
Time and savings          ( 6.45)  ( 8.10)  ( 6.96)  ( 7.89)  ( 7.46)  ( 7.95)           ( 7.41)  ( 9.58)
Deposits against letters of credit         (  --)  ( 1.02)  ( 1.22)  ( 0.98)  ( 1.45)   ( 1.09)           ( 1.44)  ( 1.17)
Credit from Bank of Yemen                          --     1.02        --        --        --        --                     --
Balances due to local banks                      1.58       --        --        --        --        --           --         --
Balances due to foreign banks                    0.88     0.50      0.36      0.61      0.69      1.44         0.97      1.47
Bills payable in foreign currencies                --       --      1.47      1.49      2.48      3.77         3.09      2.90
Deposits in foreign currencies                     --        --       --        --      0.52      0.82         0.82      2.14
Capital accounts                                 0.40     0.35      3.37      3.48      3.65      4.59         3.85      4.40
Other liabilities                                7.21     4.47      1.60      1.49      2.22      2.74         3.15      2.91
Total liabilities = assets                23.89    20.31    22.49    23.61    29.85    37.03             36.02    42.92
Assets
Cash                                             0.47     0.36      0.53      0.58      0.58      1.14         1.12      1.43
Balances with Bank of Yemen                      0.80     0.56      0.47      3.05      6.37      2.99         3.30      5.17
Balances with local banks                        1.63        --        --       --        --        --            --        --
Balances with foreign banks                      5.20      1.71     3.37      2.33      2.28      1.12         2.44      4.69
Bills receivable in foreign currencies             --        --     1.42      0.82      0.59      0.77          1.02      1.24
Bills receivable in local currencies        /      --        --     1.07      1.36      1.93      2.83          2.34      1.26
Treasury bills                                     --        --        --     2.00      2.00        --          2.00      2.00
Credit to Government                               --       --      0.30      0.12      0.19      0.20         0.29      0.02
Loans and advances                     /1        9.08      9.92     9.55      7.86      8.33    16.10         16.52    18.46
Claims on the Economic Organizatior -              --       --      3.47 /2  3.31       3.36      3.36          3.36      3.33
Investments:  Local                             C.40      0.25      0.05      0.05      0.05        --         0.05         --
Foreign                          0.10        --        --      0.01      0.01      0.06         0.06      0.07
Other assets                                     6.22      7.52     2.26      2.12      4.16      8.46          3.52      5.25
Source:  Bank of Yemen.
/1 Claims on nationalized banks.                                                                                                (D
/2 Claims on economic organization were included in other assets before 1971.                                                   ro w



ANNEX 1
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ricultural Development Fund - Balance Sheet Dec. 31, 1976
(Amounts in YD thousand)
Item                                           Assets      Liabilities
Loans outstanding (to State Farms and Cooperatives)   1,274
Loans outstanding (to water projects)                      16
Stocks of Pumps, Parts, etc.                            1,078
Accounts with NBY etc.                                    540
Bills receivable                                          684
Furniture                                                   4
Other Assets                                               35
Bills payable                                                         2,o40
Deposits by MAAR Machinery Section                                      626
Income                                                                   34
Capital                                                                 931
Totals                              3,631         3,631
Loans Outstanding - By Governorates
First Governorate                                          59
Second    "                                               456
Third     "                                               528
Fourth    "                                               121
Fifth     "                                               105
Sixth     "                                                 5
Total                               1,274
Source: MAAR - Agricultural Development Fund



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Agriculture
Geography
1.        The Wadi Tuban Delta located in the 2nd Governorate is a major agri-
cultural region because of its size and closeness to Aden. The Wadi Tuban
drains a large catchment basin of about 5,600 km2, 70% of which is in the
mountainous region of the Yemen Arab Republic. The rainfall in the mountains
provides annual spate irrigation in the Wadi Tuban Delta and serves as the
main source of water for the underground water basin.
Climate
2.        The Wadi Tuban Delta is an arid zone with an erratic rainfall which
averages less than 100 mm/year, high average daily temperatures (240C in
winter and 330C in summer), relatively high humidity (annual average 66%), and
long periods of sunshine (a minimum of 7 hours a day on the annual average).
Throughout the year, winds of 10 to 20 km/hr prevail mainly during the day-
light hours. These high winds create shifting sand dunes, which would cover
the roads and cultivable land if left unchecked. The average evaporation
value is 6.6 mm/day. The climate creates two growing seasons, a hot summer
period (April-September) and a warm winter season (October-March). A summary
of the main climatic factors for two years at Lahej, the center of the project
zone, is presented in Table 1.
Soils and Topography
3.        The soils in the delta are made up of two basic groups, the desert
soils and the spate irrigated soils. The topography in both cases is flat
with a north-south slope of less than 1%. The desert soils located at the
sciuthern end of the Wadi consist of sandy and gravelly alluvial deposits.
Profile development is lacking, but layers of sand, loamy sands and sandy
loam material are found. Approximately 18,500 ha have been surveyed 1/.
Spate irrigated soils located in the northern part of the Wadi are the result
of a continuous slow sedimentation of silty materials carried by the flood
waters annually over the centuries and deposited over the natural soil of
sandy texture. These alluvial soils are 8-10 m deep and have horizons with
textures that are usually loam, silt loam or silty clay loam. Approximately
16,730 ha in this group have been surveyed 1/.
1/i Italconsult, Wadi Tuban Feasibility Report, Rome 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Soil Physical and Chemical Properties
4.         Permeability and infiltration rates are related to soil texture.
Lateral permeability is good for horizons of light texture (8-12 mm/hr). The
average infiltration rates for silt loam, loam, loamy sand and sand were found
to be respectively, 27, 55, 120 and 185 mm/hr. Salinity is not a problem in
the spate irrigated areas because of annual flooding. These soils have an EC
value not exceeding 2 mmhos/cm in the soil saturated extract. In some ground-
water irrigated areas with heavy textured soil, EC values above 4 mmhos/cm
have developed. However, soil salinity is not expected to be a problem in
the project area. The cation exchange capacity (CEC) is adequate. The range
is from 7 mg/100 g for sand and loamy sand, to 30 mg/100 g for heavier soils
such as silty clay loams and clay loams.
5.         Exchangeable sodium percent (ESP) is low in the spate irrigated
soils (5-8 ESP). However, in some tubewell irrigated areas some saline sodic
soils have developed with values from 15% up to 30% ESP. The delta soils in
general are slightly alkaline with a pH of 7.6 to 8.8. In terms of fertility,
both spate and desert soils are extremely low in nitrogen, but the spate soils
have more available potassium and phosphorus than the desert soils as shown
below.
Total Nitrogen         K 0           P 0
Soil Type                %                              kg/ha
Spate                  0.077             1,182          2,030
Desert                 0.070               249          1,824
6.         In the spate area, based on suitability for spate irrigation, it is
estimated that more than 75% of the land is in Class I and Class 2, and around
25% in Class 3. Land classification in the perennially irrigated area, shows
approximately 75% of the land in the project to be in Class 1 and the balance
about equally divided between Classes 2 and 3. The soils in the project area
are satisfactory and present no unusual problems.
Agricultural Production - Spate Area
7.         Spate irrigation is the traditional system of irrigation in the
delta, and the distribution of water has been accomplished by long standing
customs concerning priority rights. Government has recently established how-
ever, a new program concerning priority and distribution of water in the area.
During the flood period, which usually begins in May, water is directed from
the river by a system of weirs and semi-permanent off-takes (ogmas) through
canals to basins.  After flooding, the crops are planted in the moist soil and
complete their life cycle utilizing the water stored in the soil profile.  The
total area flooded with a reasonable amount of water varies greatly from year
to year, but ranges from an average of 5,000 ha to 6,500 ha. The land is
ploughed by tractors and tilled prior to irrigation. Seeds are sown by hand
after flooding with the aid of an ox drawn country plow. Replanting, a



ANNEX 2
Page 3
limited amount of weeding and harvesting are performed manually. Fertilizers
and plant protection chemicals are seldom used, except on the cotton crop.
Yields are consequently low (see Table 2). The seven farm cooperatives
are located in this region. The tractors for ploughing and bulldozers which
are used for ridging and levelling the basins are rented from MRS.
8.        Early floods occur in April, the peak floods in July-August and late
floods of low volume in  September and October.  The amount of flood water
determines the crops, and the cropping pattern which is practiced is shown
below. All crops receive one irrigation, except red sorghum which is flooded
twice, allowing two grain harvests plus a third harvest for forage. From the
white sorghum, flooded once, a grain crop is obtained and the ratoon crop is
harvested later for forage. Up to 1976, long staple cotton, an export crop,
was grown in the area. From 1976, short staple cotton will be grown in the
area to supply the raw material for the local textile mill. All crop cul-
tivars used in the area are unimproved types. All families have livestock
(LO-15 head per family) which consists of sheep and goats in equal quanti-
ties. The bullocks used are owned by the cooperative, which charges each
family for their use.
Flood and        Percent
Crop                 Planting Period   Crop Area    Harvest Period
Cotton, M.S.         June                   60        November and December
Red Sorghum /1       May-June                20       100 days + 50 days + 30 days
White Sorghum        July-August             10       100 days later
Watermelon and       Sept.-October   )        5       100 days later
Cucumbers            March-April                      80-100 days later
Sesame and others   Sept.-October            5        100 days later
/1   After 50 days, a second spate irrigation is given; 100, 150 days from
sowing two grain crops are harvested, and 180 days after sowing a forage
crop is harvested.
Agricultural Production - Perennially Irrigated Areas
9.        Perennially irrigated areas are irrigated solely by groundwater and
in a few cases supplemented by spate flows. These areas encompass the state
farms and are located in the southern end of the Wadi. For years, farmers
located in some areas supplemented their spate irrigated land with water from
shallow wells which also provided drinking water. Although tubewell drilling
began in the early fifties, it has been only in the last four years that tube
well drilling for agriculture has taken place. This has been done by the
Government to extend agricultural production. Up to two years ago, cotton
was the main crop grown, but this crop has been replaced gradually by tomatoes
to meet the needs of the tomato paste factory. Farming practices for the most
part are similar to those in the spate areas with limited use of inputs, such



ANNEX 2
Page 4
as fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, and basin irrigation in uneven
fields. Impre7ved varieties are being gradually introduced, but crop yields
remain relatively low (Table 2).
10.       Since water is available throughout the year, the season determines
the planting period for the crops grown. The present cropping intensity is
105% and the cropping pattern is presented below. Small plantations of
mangos and bananas have been planted in one area, and an array of other
minor fruit crops, such as custard apples, guava and young date palms, are
grown on a small scale. The cotton grown is for export, the tomatoes for the
canning factory, the watermelon, cucumbers, okra, eggplant, onions and peppers
and others for the Aden market. The sorghum is grown for the dairy and beef
herds and for the sheep and goats. The net land under cultivation is approxi-
mately 2,100 ha.
Percent
Crop                     Planting Period       Crop Area    Harvest Period
Cotton M.S.              June                     5.0        December-January
Tomatoes                 September-December    50.0          January-April
Vegetables               September-December       7.5        January-April
Maize (grain)             September               2.5        100 days after sowing
Sorghum (grain)          March-September         12.5        100 days after sowing
Sorghum (forage)         March-July              17.5        1st cut after 50 days
2nd cut after 90 days
3rd cut after 125 days
Watermelons               throughout year         7.5        100 days after sowing
Forage legumes
and others             March-April              2.8        July-August
Livestock
11.       Although the farmers in the spate areas (cooperatives) and the
workers on the state farms maintain their own cattle, goats and sheep, the
main livestock enterprise in Wadi Tuban is of the specialized type (dairy,
beef fattening, sheep and poultry) and is confined to state farms. The live-
stock population in the country is not accurately known. However, during a
compulsory vaccination campaign in 1972, there were estimated to be 80-100,000
cattle and 1.5 to 2.0 million sheep and goats. Approximately 9% of the cattle
and 2% of the sheep and goats were in the Wadi Tuban Delta. There are two
dairy farms in the project area which are managed through a bilateral assis-
tance program. There is a veterinarian permanently stationed at each farm.
The milk produced is sold in the Aden market. The most productive dairy cows
are Kenya Friesians imported from Kenya. The plan is to secure from Canada
pure Friesian semen to inseminate stock on hand. Data on the dairy farms are
as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Mlilking      Milking                   Sheep
Date            Cows         Cows        Cattle        and
State Farm        Established       Capacity      Actual       Heads        Goats
Jawala                1973            600          488         1,028          -
Fiyush                1974            600          490           800        2,000
Comparative data on breed performance are presented below.
Jawala Farm                Fiyush Farm
Milk         Total          Milk          Total
Dairy Breed           1/day    1/lactation        1/day      1/lactation
Friesian              8.0          2,400          6.7           2,100
Boran                 4.5          1,350          5.0           1,500
Ayrshire              6.7          2,100           -              -
Local                 2.3            690           -
12.       Beef fattening operations are confined to the El-Jarrad State Farm.
Mal]e calves about four months old, weighing 80-90 kg, are purchased from
Jawala and Fiyush at a cost of 400 fils/kg (liveweight) per animal. The
farm maintains at present about 500 calves, each reportedly gaining on the
average 30 kg per month. The animals are sold to the National Meat Corpora-
tion (NMC) when they attain about 400 kg liveweight, which usualy requires
less than one year.
13.       Sheep production is restricted to the Somali breed and is conducted
at two state farms, Revolution and 26 September. Breeding is the main em-
phasis at present with all of the milk being given to the lambs. The males,
after about a year when they attain approximately 25-30 kg liveweight, are
sold to the NMC. The Revolution Farm was started in 1972 with about 500 ewes
and was increased to approximately 3,000 in 1976. The 26 September Farm was
established in May 1976 with a stock of 2,000 ewes.
14.       Goats are maintained primarily for milk. There are approximately
500 females at Fiyush State Farm, and Government is considering establishing
a goat-raising state farm. The herd consists of Pakistani breed and the
Baladi, a local breed. Although the former produces more milk than the
latter, it only drops one kid a year, whereas the Baladi may give two. The
cross between Baladi and Pakistani has been reported to be superior to the
Baladi in milk production and has a higher birth rate than the Pakistani.
15.       Poultry production for eggs appears to be the most efficient and
well organized livestock enterprise. Begun in 1972 as a Government Corpora-
tion with bilateral assistance, this operation plans to produce 35 million
eggs annually by 1978. It fi a self contained unit with a breeding farm,
hatchery, feed factory and layer production units. Approximately 18.5 million
eggs were produced in 1976, and they expect to reach 25 million in 1977, and
35 million in 1978. Broiler production is being planned as a second phase of



ANNEX 2
Page 6
the program. Locally procured fish and cotton seed meal are used in the feed
ration, but grains such as wheat, maize and sorghum are imported.
16.       Except for the importation of chemicals for medicinal purposes,
the livestock industry (excluding poultry) in Wadi Tuban depends entirely
on locally produced products. The daily feed ration for the animals is
presented below. While cotton seed meal and wheat bran are readily avail-
able, sorghum forage and fodder are presently limited.
Daily Feed Ration - kg/animal
Crop                       Dairy      Beef      She/I    Goats/
Sorghum fodder              12          7       2.5-3.0    2.5-3.0
Sorghum forage (green)    10            7   )
Cotton seed meal             0.5        2        0.15        0.15
Wheat bran                   2.5        3        0.5         0.5
/1   Allowed to graze on farm crop residues.
Agricultural Support Services
17.       Research on crop and fruit production applicable to the Wadi Tuban
Delta is being carried out at the El Kod Research center by the Government,
with assistance from a FAO/UNDP program. El Kod, an old station developed
by the British for cotton research in 1955, now has an international staff
with expertise in horticulture, plant pathology, entomology, agronomy, econ-
omics and forestry. Over the past ten years, package programs to increase
the production of sorghum, maize, tomatoes and other vegetables have been
developed. The station has selected and also tested improved varieties of
fruits, vegetables and grains. This was accomplished under the first and
second phase of UNDP assisted project on "Agricultural Research and Training".
The third phase, starting in 1977, is goal-oriented and is known as "Improve-
ment of Crop Production". Unfortunately, all research efforts thus far have
been confined mainly to the perennially irrigated areas, and little has been
done specifically for the spate areas. Other FAO/UNDP sponsored projects
which have been helpful are PDY/71/508 and PDY/75/014 "Piloting Improved Agro-
nomic Practices". The latter is scheduled to terminate in August 1977. Most
of the work on improvement of irrigation techniques and other cultural prac-
tices recommended were developed and successfully demonstrated at Fiyush and
Wadi Tuban State Farms under these projects. It has recently been decided
that under the third phase of this FAO/UNDP assisted project one of the pro-
posed demonstration farms to be established will be in the Wadi Tuban Delta.
18.       There is at present no functional Extension Service in MAAR.  The
Extension Service is being created as a section in MAAR (see Annex 10, Chart
17632). Government intends to strengthen and upgrade this section into a



ANNEX 2
Page 7
department when it has been developed. The absence of an organized and effec-
tive Extension Service has kept the information developed at El Kod from becom-
ing known to and practiced by the farmers and managers of the state farms.
Moreover, there is little feedback from the field to the experts to bring them
closer to the problems in crop production being encountered at the state farms.
In the Wadi Tuban area, the Lahej Agricultural Development Board (LADB) had 18
extension agents assigned to the cooperatives under its Agricultural Extension
Section (Annex 10, Chart 17755). Primarily because of their training and tech-
nical support, these agents were mainly data collectors rather than persons who
are able to advise and teach improved agricultural practices to farmers and
farm managers.
19.       Training facilities for agriculture and support services are avail-
able in and near the project area. For clerks, accountants, cooperative
officers and farm management staff the Cooperative Education and Training
Center (Dar Sa'ad), established under a UNDP/ILO project, is able to provide
the pre-service and in-service training needed for the cooperatives and state
farms. In respect to the new accounting system to be introduced for state
farms, Government intends to develop a 9-month training course to start in
June and continue over a 5-year period. The Agricultural Training Center
(at Giar), established in 1970 under the first phase of the FAO/UNDP project
mentioned above, provides practical training in farming, such as ploughing,
cultivating, sowing, fertilization and other operations. It also provides a
5-month training course for selected students from various villages. Care-
fujlly selected individuals from this group, with some additional in-service
training, might be utilized as new extension agents for DTDB. Nasser Agricul-
tural College, situated at Lahej and started in 1969, provides a 3-year post-
preparatory course which grants a diploma to the successful students and also
a post-secondary 4-year course which leads to a B.Sc. degree. In 1976, the
first degree holding students (18) were graduated. At present, there are 158
students enrolled in the 3-year diploma course and 112 in the B.Sc. degree
program; both groups include female students. The staff consisting of 15
Ph.Ds. are from Egypt. Only the Director is from PDRY. However, five Yemenis
(2 Ph.Ds. and 3 M.Scs.) are expected back from overseas training shortly and
will join the institute. Graduates with a B.Sc. could serve as counterparts
to the specialists assigned to the project, and the diploma graduates would
be excellent extension agents for the cooperatives and state farms.
Agricultural Development
20.       In spite of the hot temperatures, limited water resources, high
evaporation rates, strong hot winds and constant sand movement, it is believed
that the project will bring about substantial yield increases over the first
six years as presented in Table 2. Such an accomplishment will only be real-
ized after a number of changes are introduced which will enable the project
to be implemented as planned. The basic change will be the reorganization
and expansion of the responsibilities of the LADB as presented in Annex 10.
Anticipated yields in the groundwater irrigated area as shown in Table 2 are
based on the results obtained following the procedures given in the package of



ANNEX 2
Page 8
improved practices developed and demonstrated in the field by UNDP sponsored
programs at El Kod and Wadi Tuban State Farm, respectively. Following the
practices advocated in the package programs for the major crops, and using
much less water than is currently being used, crop yields have been reported
to be more than double the existing averages. The package program involves
mainly field levelling, subdivision of fields into relatively small plots
(1/2 ha) for affecting water economy during irrigation, efficient use of farm
machinery, planting improved varieties, judicious use of fertilizers, inter-
tillage of row-sown crops, irrigating crops according to their needs for water
and stage of growth, and the exercise of crop protection measures. The yields
for tomatoes, maize and watermelons reported for the 4th year are approximately
50% of that realized at the research station in 75/76.
21.       Without the project in the spate and groundwater irrigated areas, no
improvement in yield level is anticipated. Without fertilizers, adequate pest
control and changes in cultural practices, yields would most likely decline in
time. The increase in agricultural production in the groundwater irrigated
areas >>ill be through efficient irrigation techniques, intensification of
agriculture (108% to 145%), the use of improved cultivars, fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals and farm machinery. The farm machinery will increase and
improve land levelling operations, improve the timeliness and increase the
efficiency of all field operations such as land preparation, crop protection
and harvesting. Organic manure from the livestock farms will be applied on
the forage crops which will improve the physical and chemical properties of
the soil as well as supplying additional soil nutrients. A schematic layout
showing the proposed cropping pattern for the entire groundwater area is given
in Chart 17756. A 3-year rotation will be followed to prevent the build up
of nematodes in tomato production as well as other harmful organisms and
chemicals. Shelter-belts will protect the arable land and roadways from the
encroachment of the desert and greatly reduce the evapotranspiration rate on
the farms. Judicious pruning of the shelter-belt trees will prevent them from
becoming detrimental to the crops and will at the same time provide needed
firewood. The increase in production in the spate area will be primarily from
the adoption of improved cultural practices and the use of fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals. The alluvial soils in the spate area are deficient
apparently only in nitrogen. Thus the application of urea will stimulate root
growth enabling all plants to exploit moisture and nutrients from a deeper
level than they otherwise would. As a result, top growth should reflect im-
proved root development and the larger plants with their higher yields will
be protected by pesticides. Technical assistance, the development of an
effective extension service, the training of Yemeni personnel, coupled with
the factors mentioned above, will enable the project to reach the yield and
production levels projected.
22.       Cotton and maize seeds will be obtained from the Seed Multiplica-
tion Program at Media and Meifa Harja. The National Seed Multiplication
Program will have seed production centers in Wadi Tuban, especially for maize
and sorghum HYVs. The high yielding cultivars for the other crops will be
imported. Fruit tree seedlings for the orchards and forest tree seedlings



ANNEX 2
Page 9
for shelterbelts will be secured from the nurseries at the El Kod Research
Station. Fertilizers and plant protection chemicals will be imported and
utilized as recommended by the research station. Costs for all the inputs
have been taken into consideration in the cost analysis. The fertilizers
and pesticides to be applied are shown below. Technical backstopping for
the project will be from the El Kod Research Station staff consisting of
specialists in all disciplines involved in the project. The station is only
80 km from the center of the project on a paved road.
Fertilizer Application Rates With Project - Groundwater Irrigated Areas
Ammonium           Triple
Crops                     Urea         Sulphate        Superphosphate       Manure
------------------------kg/ha-----------------------
Tomatoes                   125             100              150               -
Vegetables                 100             100              150               -
Melons/Watermelons         100              50               75               -
Maize                      100             100               75               -
Sorghum Forage             100             100              100             15 tons
Forage Legumes              50              -               100             10 tons
Mango                      125             100              150
23.       For Years 5, 6 and onwards, urea at the rate of 50 kg/ha, will be
added to the above base for all crops except the forage legumes. This will
increase the nitrogen available which will probably be required in order to
maximize the output of new varieties expected to be available by that time.
For the initial plantings of forage legumes in each plot, the seeds will be
mixed with a culture of Rhizobium to assure that the soil would become ino-
culated with suitable nitrogen fixing bacteria. The application of urea on
the legume forage crops will be discontinued after there is evidence that
the soil has become inoculated. The high rate of fertilizers at the outset
for the mango plantation is because the area is expected to be interplanted
with tomatoes for the first four years. Thereafter, the annual application
will be 100 kg/ha of both urea and ammonium sulphate. Because of the low
cation exchange capacity of these soils, the fertilizers will be applied in
two or more doses. In the spate area, experience has shown that only nitrogen
is required. Thus only 50 kg/ha urea has been planned for all the crops in
the area since moisture is the critical factor. For red sorghum, which will
be given two irrigations, 100 kg/ha of ammonium sulphate will be applied just
before the second irrigation.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Main Pests of Major Crops and Pesticides Used
Main              Pesticide /1          Dosage          Number
Crop             Pest                 Used               per ha        Treatments
Cotton           Bollworms         Nuvacron 40           2.5 1               2
Aphids            Nuvacron 50           2.5 1               2
Jassids           Dimethoate 40         1.5 1               1
Sorghum          Aphids            Malathion 50          1.5 1               1
Shoot Fly         Furadon 75%           200 gms             1
Maize            Stem borer        Sevin 85%             2 kgs               2
Cucurbits        Melon Fly         Dimethoate 40          1.5 1              1
Aphids            Dimethoate 40          1.5 1              1
Melon beetle      Lebaycid 50%          1.5 1               3
Melon bug         Lebaycid 50%           1.5 1              3
Downy mildew      Captan 50             4.5 kg              1
Tomatoes         Bollworms         Gardona 75%           2.0 kg              2
White Fly         Dimethoate 40         1.5 1               2
Downy mildew      Captan 50             4.5 kg              1
Mangos           Fruit Fly         Supracide 40           1.5 1              2
Scale             Supracide 40          1.5 1              2
/1   Or similar product.  Method and precaution for application should be
in accordance with label instructions.
24.       In the spate area medium staple cotton will replace the long staple
cotton. Medium staple cotton, when compared with the long staple cotton pre-
viously grown in the spate areas, has certain advantages: the maturation
period of medium staple is shorter by about one month, maturity is more uni-
form requiring less picking periods, it is easier to pick because of its
larger bolls, and there is usually less problems with pests and diseases.
25.       Since production records will be maintained, it may be possible
to increase production by introducing a system of recognition for specific
achievements. An award could be given to the cooperative and state farm
that reaches or exceeds the annual yield levels established for each year in
Table 2 for the major crops. Another method could be the awarding of cups
or ribbons each year for the cooperative and state farm with the highest
average yield for specific crops.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Monthly Mean Data Lahei Meteorological Station
Temperature 'C                                                               Wind           Radiation
Maximum               Minimum         Monthly         Relative Humidity %                      Reach       cal/    Sunshine   Pan Evaporation    Rainfall
Highest   Lowest    Highest   Lowest          Mean    Maximum   Minimum   Average  Direction   km/day   cm2/day   hrs/day   mm/day   mm/month                  mm
1974:
January            - 2        -           -          -          -          -
February           -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -
March              33.0        29.2       22.0       16.0       25.2         96         43         69   E/NE/SE          150        407        7.0       6.17         190        2.4
April              38.0       32.4       28.9        19.0       28.2         97         35         67   SE/E/NE          119        491        9.5       6.17        185         0.0
May                40.8        31.5      26.5        20.3       29.6         96         36         66   SE/E/NE          118        445        8.6       7.84        240         4.0
June               40.0        35.1      25.7        23.7       31.5         91         41         66      SE/SW         113        455        8.7       9.27        280         0.0
July               43.0        35.8      31.5        21.0       31.1         87         33         60        VAR         112        428        7.6       9.43        290         4.4
August             40.2        34.2      28.8        25.5       32.3         89         36         63        VAR         140        432        8.1       9.44        290         0.0
September          38.1        32.0      28.5        22.5       30.3         97         45         71        VAR          86        418        7.8       6.13         185       83.0
October            38.5        31.9      24.4        17.7       27.6         96         22         64    E/NE/E          201        458        9.6       7.23         225        0.0
November           34.6       29.2       25.0        17.4       25.0         93         36         65    SE/E/N          110        429        9.2       5.63         170        0.0
December           30.7        28.3      21.2        15.8       24.4         92         47          70       E/N         109        362        7.9       4.87         150        0.0
(2,205)     (93.0)
1975:
January            30.9        26.1       20.4       15.8       24.4         88         52         47   E/SE/NE          132        381        7.4       4.20         130        0.0
February           32.1        28.5       23.2       18.0       25.0         93         50          72      E/NE         120        385         7.2      4.66         130        2.3
March              33.6        29.8       23.7       18.5       25.4         92         47          68         NE        118        463        8.5        5.68        175        0.0
April              36.4        30.4       24.4       20.5       26.9         98         42          70      E/NE         106        449        9.1        6.19        185       13.4
May                39.9        34.3       27.1       19.3       28.9         97         40          68    E/SE/E          88        498        9.7        8.03        250        0.0
June               45.0        36.8       28.0       23.0       31.1         91         29          61        VAR        101        437         8.6       8.66        260        0.0
July               40.2        32.7       29.0       24.1       30.2         89         34          62       VAR         104        405         7.3       9.20        285         1.5
August             40.2        30.8       26.8       22.5       28.5         95         62          79       VAR         109        426         7.8       7.63        235       10.2
September          39.2        29.5       26.7       20.3       29.9         90         57          73     E/N/S          75        421        8.8        5.98        180       30.0
October            37.8        31.9       24.7       17.9       28.2         86         45          66    E/N/EW          81        440         9.1       7.10        220         0.0
November           37.8        29.8       22.0       15.2       25.7         88         36          62        E/N         83        431         8.8       4.33        130         3.6
December           -           -          -          _          _          _          _          _           _          _          -          -           4.25L2      130oL       0e0
2,310       61.5
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture
LNo Data
/2 Estimate
July 1977



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Crop Yield Prolection for Perennial and Spate Irrigated Areas
(tons/ha)
Present    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6
Perennial Irrigation
Tomatoes /                      12.0       14.0      17.0       21.0       25.0       25.0      27.0
Vegetables         /1           12.0       14.0       17.0      20.0       23.0      25.0       27.0
Melon - Watermelon-             15.0       16.0       18.0      20.0       22.0       25.0      27.0
Maize (Grain) /1                 1.5        2.0        2.4       2.8        3.3        3.3       3.5
Maize (Stover)                   4.5        5.5        6.5       7.0        8.0        8.0       8.0
Sorghum (Forage)                35.0       42.0      50.0       57.0       65.0      75.0       80.0
Forage Legumes                  15.0       16.0      17.0       19.0       20.0      21.0       22.0
Spate Irrigation
Cotton (Medium Staple)           0.7        0.8       0.9        1.0        1.1       1.1        1.2
Red Sorghum (Grain)              1.0        1.1        1.2       1.4        1.6       1.7        1.8
Red Sorghum (Stover)             6.0        6.5       6.5        7.0        7.0        7.5       7.5
Red Sorghum (Forage)             3.0        3.5        4.0       4.5        5.0       5.5        6.0
White Sorghum (Grain)            0.6        0.7        0.8       0.9        1.0        1.1       1.2
White Sorghum (Stover             3.5       3.5        4.0       4.5        4.5       5.0        5.0
White Sorghum (Forage)           3.0        3.5        4.0       4.5        5.0       5.5        6.0            H
Watermelon - Melon              10.0       12.0       14.0      16.0       18.0      18.0       19.0
Sesame                           0.4        0.45      0.50       0.55       0.60      0.65       0.70            X
/1 Yields in year 4 are approximately 50% of research yields.
July 1977



APPRAISAL OF
WAOI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC FIEPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Pumntniai Irnrtion:  Crop Rotaton at Full DeO eIoprnnt
..*iny   j 0t* Mu t4S*t               *Qt,r         Ma           ac.          S-t J*w  JV. t          fl$t.n,O..   Oct....      N..eflC.     O.c..o.,    *..
?loI I Tomatoni                                                                                                                          _l                                 l      -
290
Plot 2  I vr.q.abiwii                                                                                                                                                                  400
. i =: T 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
Plot 3   Maize.                                                                                                                               j                                        20
Sorqnum 
arup                             ' -  __        ' .200
rOTAL ANNUAL cROPS 2.3990
-Tree crows                                        _   . I    :
LEGFND:
0 Land omwtolwnttaa                  Irtpotion
3  pro-         .                      Harvest
0 "la4,tjtg
Croo incamiry of men .-der annual croos 14;
i=. Od .. .  - _77.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Water Availability and Requirement
Surface Water
1..       The Wadi Tuban lies at the southern extremity of the Arabian Penin-
sula between latitude 12  - 55' and 140 - 10' N.  Its catchment area excluding
the delta part is about 5600 km2 of which 9% (500 km) lies at an elevation of
about 2000 m, about 77% (4300 km) between 1000 and 2000 m and 14% (800 km)
below 1000 m. The catchment receives annual rainfall which varies on average
from a few dozen millimeters in the plains to around 600 mm in the higher
areas. A calculation of the annual runoff based on precipitation in the
catchment is not possible due to lack of sufficient knowledge of the rainfall
regime in the upper catchment. Hence, the only possible approach to estimate
the Wadi's surface water potential is the use of available runoff data both
for Wadi Tuban itself and the contiguous basins. Based on this approach,
ITALCONSULT have tentatively estimated the Wadi's water potential within the
framework of an integrated study "Soil and Water Utilization and Conservation
in the Wadi Tuban Watershed Area" entrusted to them by FAO in 1972. Based on
the available discharge data for the period 1957-1960 supplied by Lahej Agri-
cultural Development Board (LADB) and the 1973 and 1974 data observed by
ITALCONSULT, the following runoff values were obtained:
10% probability                         229 Mm3
50%      "                              153 Mm3
75%      "                               99 Mm3
Based on 21 years record of Wadi Bana which rises in the same moun-
tains system and has a course roughly parallel to Wadi Tuban and has similar
morphological and hydrological characteristics, the following runoff values
were obtained for Wadi Tuban:
10% probability                         210 Mm3
50%     "                               135 Mm3
75%     "                               105 Mm3
From the above estimates, the average annual discharge of Wadi Tuban is
assessed between 135 and 153 Mm3.
2.        The available discharge data with LADB for the years 1957 to 1960
and with MAAR for the years 1973 to 1976 gives the following values of the
annual runoffs,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Year                 57    '58    '59    '60    '73    '74    '75    '76
Runoff Mm3          177    138    278    312       41      57    105      40
The years 1973 and 1974 have been bad years and 1976 is called a disaster
year for agriculture in the country.
3.        From the study of the calculated and observed data, the mission
considers that adequate supplies would be available in normal years for
irrigating 6500 ha considered for surface flow irrigation under the project.
4.        The electric conductivity (EC) of the surface water varies from
0.5 mmhos/cm to 0.9 mmhos/cm. The tests confirm the suitability of water for
irrigation.
Groundwater
5.        The aquifer of Wadi Tuban Delta is composed of alluvial deposits
of alternating layers of sand and gravel. The unconfined aquifer is located
in the upper layer of alluvial deposits up to a maximum thickness of 180
meters. The deeper part consists of finer sediments of poor water bearing
characteristics. The piezometric surface occurs at depths varying between 5
and 30 meters. The volume of water saturated alluvium is estimated as 73000
Mm3. The major sources of recharge of the alluvium are surface inflow in
Wadi Tuban and irrigation channels and the spate irrigated basins in the
delta area.  From the water budgets prepared for the years 1973 and 1974,
the recharge was assessed as 45% of the Wadi runoff. A digital groundwater
model was prepared by ITALCONSULT in order to simulate the aquifer response
to alternative development strategies. As a result of their study they have
assessed that the annual recharge to aquifer would lie between 40 and 60 Mm3.
6.        The present net ground water extraction is estimated as 52 Mm3 and
therefore leaves practically no scope for additional extraction either for
Aden water supply or irrigation schemes unless a refinement of the recharge
estimates presents a more optimistic picture or some alternative source is
found to meet the household and industrial demands of Aden town. Irrigation
of coastal areas between Shiekh Othman and Beir Ahmed using sewage effluent
from Aden can help irrigation development in the Delta and provide a source
of seepage to the sea. This would avert the risk of salt water intrusion in
the present critical balance of the delta's water budget. A Water management
study is, therefore, included in the project to examine these aspects.
7.        The EC of irrigation wells in the project area generally varies
from 1.0 mmhos/cm to 4.0 mmhos/cm. The conductivity is low near the axis
of the Wadi and increases with the distance from the axis. No signs of
salinity are, however, observed in the irrigated areas. It is, therefore,
believed, that with proper field management practices the water would be
suitable for irrigation.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Groundwater Requirements
8.        The consumptive use requirement of the proposed crops at full
project development will be about 17.41 Mm3 and the leaching requirements,
field losses and conveyance losses will be about 5.75, 7.46 and 5.40 Mm3,
respectively (Table I), giving gross irrigation requirement as 36.02 Mm3.
This is about the same as the current gross withdrawals for irrigation.
Of the quantity extracted for irrigation, about 7.50 Mm3 will be recharged
into the aquifer leaving the net irrigation extraction as 28.52 Mm3. About
23 Mm3 of ground water is now being extracted for household and other uses
giving a net extraction of 51.52 Mm3 from the aquifer which is about the same
as the present net withdrawals.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TjUBAN AGRICUTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Estimated Water Requirements
1.  Climate data A              Jan.    Feb.    March    April    May    June    Jly    Aug.         Sept.    Oct.      Nov.     Dec.
Average temp. (0C)          24.4    25.0    25.3      27.6     29.3   31.3    30.6    30.4       30.1     27.9      25.3     24.4
Percent daytime hours        0.21    0.24    0.27      0.30     0.33   0.35    0.34    0.31       0.28     0.25      0.22     0.20
2. Reference crop
evapotranspiration
Daily ETO mm                2.8     3.3     4.1       5.2      6.2    7.5      6.8     6.o       5.1      4.9       3.6      2.8
3.  Crop water requirements
Area                                                ETC (mm)                                                                       Total
Cropped     Jan.    Feb.    March      pril    May    June    July    Au.        Sept.    Oct.      Nov.      Dec.      Total       Demand
mm  haa        Mm:
Tomatoes         650         95     102     109        47       _        _       _      -         24       47        76       78         578         3.7
Vegetables       400        125      27                _        _        _       _      15        73      128       124      125         617         2.47
Melons           250         -       -        -        -        -        -       -      52       112      144        82       -          390         0.98
Maize            650         82      _-                                                  -        68      106       123       95         479         3.08
Sorghum (Forage) 490         -       -        16       70      120      164     147    120        80       33        -        -          750         3.68
Legumes (Forage) 450         80     210     460      1150     1390    1350      760    200        -        -         -        -          560         2.52
Mango            105         53      56       60       84       81       92      80     72        84       86        72       60         880         0.92
Field losses (70% field efficiency)                             Sub-Total                         17.41
Leaching requirement (33% of consumptive use)                                                      7.46
Conveyance losses (85% distribution efficiency)                                                    5.75
5.4o
Total                        36.02
E   No rainfall data is used as the rainfall in the project area is very scanty.
August 1977                                                                                                                                                    a1i



ANNEX 4
Pag- 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Land Tenure, Cooperatives and State Farms
1.        Under the Agrarian Reform Law of 1970, which modified the earlier
Land Reform Act of 1968, land ownership was limited to 8 ha irrigated or 16
ha non-irrigated per primary family. In practice, individually operated
holdings remaining in the project area are considerably smaller than these
ceilings. Land in the project area is now organized in cooperatives or state
farms, over which a considerable amount of Government control is exercised.
The state farms are required, by law, to have a permanent source of irrigation
water. In Wadi Tuban, 12 state farms occupy most of the area irrigated by
groundwater, while 6 cooperatives consist mainly of spate-irrigated land and
1 cooperative has irrigation tubewells.
2.        Cooperatives.  In the project area in Wadi Tuban there are 7 coop-
eratives, having a total of about 7,000 farm families, and a cultivable area
averaging about 1.09 ha per farmer member. Most individually operated hold-
ings are between 1 ha and 2 ha in size. Each cooperative is administered by
a board or council consisting of 7-10 elected members, with an elected chair-
man and secretary. Appointed staff included accountant, storekeeper and
clerks.  Sometimes other staff such as plant protection technicians or exten-
sion personnel are designated by M4AAR to the cooperatives. In the project
area there are six cooperatives of the liodel 1 type and one of the Model 2
type (Table 1). The former model has individual farm holdings, individually
cultivated and operated. The overall agricultural plan is, however, the
responsibility of the cooperative, within guidelines laid down each year by
MAAR. The cooperative is also responsible for obtaining credit, for certain
collective functions such as pest control in cotton, and for marketing produce
(surplus to the 200-300 kgs. of cereals and sometimes small amounts of sesame
which the farm families retain for their own use). Collective tasks may be
handled by work groups. Family-owned livestock do not come under the jurisdic-
tion of the cooperative. In the Model 2 cooperative, all means of production
are owned and operated collectively, under supervision of the elected council.
Members are organized into work groups to perform most tasks, with some casual
labor employed at harvest times. Although members are supposed to be remuner-
ated according to their work input, labor records were commenced only in mid-
1976 and are still inadequate, covering only the hours worked each day but not
the quality of work. The rate of pay is said to vary with the type of job
being performed. The organi7ation of such a model cooperative is outlined in
Chart WB 17906.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The Model 1 cooperatives own no machinery, but hire tractors and
equipment from the MRS at a fixed rate of YD 0.650 per hour for a 60-70 HP
tractor, which is neither sufficient to cover actual operation and maintenance
costs, nor includes any contribution for recovery of capital investment. The
Model 2 cooperative owns two tractors and a pickup truck, and also hires some
equipment from the MRS. The wells and pumpsets on this farm are owned by the
cooperative but maintained by the MRS. Cooperatives may obtain credit from
either the National Bank of Yemen or, mainly for machinery purchase in Model
2, from the Agricultural Development Fund (Table 1). Administrative expenses
for the cooperatives are financed from the 5% tax which is levied on the gross
value of most output. In addition there is a State tax of 15% of the gross
value of cotton and cereals. Proceeds of this tax go to the Treasury.
4.        State Farms.  The 12 state farms in the project area (Table 1) have
a cultivable area totalling 2,105 ha and employ about 2,600 workers. Govern-
ment-appointed managers are responsible for purchase of capital goods, deploy-
ment of labor, and day to day running of the farms. Within Government plans
for the area as a whole, however, crop areas are allocated to each farm after
an assessment in consultation with each manager. Government also allocates
technicians and administrative personnel in accordance with the plan. An
example of organization is the Jawala Animal Farm, specializing in dairying,
which employs a total of about 185 workers and has an administrative setup
as follows:
Manager
i           ~       ~      ~~~~~I  I                       I
Foreign          Animal        Accounting -              Agriculture -
Specialists         Section      Clerks, etc.        Irrigation Technicians,
(4)              (15)            (9)                 Drivers, etc.
(6)
Although all state farms grow crops, Jawala and Fiyush specialize in dairying
(with more than 500 introduced milking cows on each), Jarrad has a beef fat-
tening unit (with 500 head capacity), and Mujahid and 26 September have
sheep and goat production units.
5.        State farms own their own equipment, which is often purchased with
the aid of loans from the Agricultural Development Fund (Table 1). Under the
project they will receive further equipment (Annex 8) to allow intensifica-
tion of cash cropping and the production of feeds for livestock. From 1978,
75% of any surplus from state farms will be allocated to general Government
Funds through the Ministry of Finance, and 25% will be retained by the farm
for investment uses subject to Government approval. The main problems of
state farms were said to be inefficient use of irrigation water, lack of
appropriate machines and equipment, and a lack of technically trained per-
sonnel. All three problems will be directly addressed under the project.



ANNEX
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Cooperatives and State Farms in Project Area
Loans Outstanding
Cultivable    Area Culti-   Number of         /2   (YD)        3
Name            Area        vated, 1976    Members       NBY-            ADF -
/1          (ha)           (ha)
Cooperatives
El Wadi El AZan         1,219            753            960        -            4,815
El Wadi El Kabir          809            577            841        --
El Olia El Kabir          959            959            851       540           9,201
El Sofla El Kabir       1,295          1,066          1,370        -           13,474
El OlieL El Saghir      1,619          1,043          1,200        -           23,493
El Sofla El Saghir      1,538            819          1,197    21,287           6,126
26 September              138            102            510       261           2,558
l'otals          7,577          5,319          6,929    22,088           59,667
State Farms
Wadi Kheir                140            120                    4,422           3,818
26 September              180            160                       -           13,736
Revolu-tion               425            400                      610          50,088
Fiyush                    180            160                       -           16,508
Wadi Tuban                140            130                        -
Sixth Session             240            240                       -
Obar Yacob                 40             20                       -              -
Nasser College             20         not known                    -              584
Jawala                    200         not known                    -              -
Jarrad                     70         not known                    -            7,264
Monasrah                  300            200                       -            2,547
Husseini                  170            160                       -            7,653
Totals           2,105         1,590                     5,032        102,198
/1 All are Model 1, except 26 September.
/2 National Bank of Yemen, at March 31, 1977 (mostly 5 year loans).
/3  Agricultural Development Fund, at December 31, 1976 (most"y 1-4 year lonas).






APPR3AISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTUFRAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization of a Production Cooperative
Marketing
Social Welfare
Adnmiiiistrative.
I  Council                                    ~                                      Agricultural
Accounts and   |                                                    .                                        Subcomnmittee$                Production
Clerical Stl                     _Chairman
Members                                                                        _ Supervision and
Secretary                                                                          Control
Colective Work
Information
Collective                                                                                Collective
Unit                                                                                      Unit
Lict                      Prou4J..CtGI     I          ...;;;  Productiosli
|    Wurkiiiy    1   |    Woiking                    Wuiking                              Working                    Working                     Work ng
(roulp                    Group.)                    Grouli                               Group                      Grotip                      Group
MWeli                          ers f                   embers                        |   Menbers                     Members                l    Members
Woi Id Bank- 17906






ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Description of Project Works
General
1.        The Civil Works included in the Project are:  (a) Irrigation improve-
ment works; (b) Feeder roads; and (c) Rural water supply schemes. The other
project elements include furnishing equipment and materials for agriculture
development, providing managerial and technical experts for training of local
staff, a water management study for refining estimates of available surface
and ground water potential and, determining feasibility of irrigation exten-
sion and of possible alternative sources of water supply for household and
industrial consumption in the project area including Aden and a study on
agricultural price, taxation and subsidy policy systems. They are described
hereunder:
Irrigation Improvement Works
2.        The irrigation improvement works will benefit 1,755 ha of culti-
vable area in the following farms which are tubewell irrigated.
Name of farm                               Cultivable area
(ha)
Wadi Khair                                        140
26th September                                    180
Revolution                                        425
Sixth Session                                     240
Jawala                                            200
Jarrad                                             70
Monasrah                                          300
Hussaini                                          200
Total             1,755
3.        The improvements will comprise:
(i) providing buried pipe water distribution system to replace
the unlined water courses;
(ii) reorganizing and levelling the fields;
(iii) providing farm access roads and wind breaks;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(iv) replacing worn-out tubewell pumps;
(v) completing tubewell electrification.
4.        Buried pipe distribution systems composed of about 123,000 m of
asbestos cement pipes of 15 and 20 cm diameters have been selected to dis-
tribute tubewell water in the farms. Asbestos cement pipes have been chosen
as they have a history of successful use in the potable water supply systems
of the Wadi. The pipes will be hot bitumen dipped to reduce friction losses
and to resist sulphate attack. In each system, a convenient number of pumping
units will be connected by valved-off pipes to ensure supply to the crops
during periods of individual pump failures.
5.        Velocities of less than 1 m/sec will be ensured in the design of
the distribution system to keep the friction losses low. The present setting
of pumps' discharge pipes which is generally one meter higher than the natural
surface level and the natural ground slope over the farm area (3% to 4% )
will provide up to three meters of water head. The balance of the head will
have to be provided by the pump which, normally, it should be able to do with
a slightly reduced discharge. In cases where head beyond the capacity of the
existing pumps is required, either the pump and motor will be uprated or open
concrete lined water courses will be used for water distribution.
6.        The asbestos cement pipes will feed hydrant valves commanding
about half ha each. A concrete anti-scour box and delivery pipe holder will
be constructed at the head of each field ditch which will feed into small
irrigation basins through plastic siphons. Each system will include non-
return valves, flow control valves and circulating columns sited near the
well heads. A stand pipe at the far end of each ring main will be provided
to release air from the system.
7.        Land Levelling and Reshaping.  Experience at Fiyush Pilot Farm has
shown that a field size of about half ha in the tubewell irrigation areas is
an adequate farm unit being large enough for mechanical field operation, yet
small enough to require only a moderate amount of land planning to achieve
acceptable slope for basin or furrow irrigation. The fields will, therefore,
be reorganized in half ha plots. The operation being in established farm
areas, the quantity of the soil to be moved will be moderate varying between
400 to 600 m3 per hectare. The work will be done through force account using
machinery (ten bulldozers and two graders) provided under the project.
8.        On-farm Access Roads and Wind Breaks.  Three to five meters wide
earth roads surfaced with a thin gravel layer and elevated about six inches
above irrigation level will be constructed to provide on-farm access. The
interval between the on-farm roads will generally be between 250 to 300
meters. The wind breaks will border the farm and consist of three rows of
trees. Within the farm, single tree rows matching the on-farm access road
grids will be planted.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        Pump Replacement.  Ten verticle turbine pumps and 24 electric motors
wilL be provided under the project to replace the defective and worn-out
existing tubewell machinery and to replace the internal combustion propulsion
with electric propulsion on the existing 69 tubewells feeding the area.
10.       Tubewell Electrification.  All state farms except Monasrah are
partly or completely served with electric power. The project will complete
this process by connecting Monasrah farm with the existing transmission lines
near the tomato factory and also replacing the diesel operated motors on the
other project farms.
Feeder Roads
11.       The following cobbled surface roads will be included in the project
to connect the outlying villages to the Aden-Lahej main road.
From                          To                    Km.
Main road                  Al Waht                     4.00
Al Fiyush                  Harran Dayyan               5.75
Harran Dayyan              Al Majhafa                  1.50
Al Majhafa                 Al Hamra                    2.75
Al Hamra                   Lahej                       2.75
Main road                  Al Mahallah                 1.00
Main road                   Sufyan                     1.25
Sufyan                     Ubar Badar                  1.50
Ubar Badar                 At Thalab                   1.00
Total                                               21.50
12.       The roads will be 4.5 m wide and will have cobbled surface similar
to that of the existing feeder roads. This surfacing has been standardized
by the Public Works Department in the region because of its low cost. It can
withstand occasional flooding. For this type of construction earth work will
be carried out by equipment and stones dressed and placed by hand. The inter-
stices will then be filled with clay and sand. The MAAR Feeder Roads Section,
which has already constructed two such roads in the area with engineering
assistance from the PWD, will construct these roads on force account. Main-
tenance of the completed roads will be carried out by PWD.
Rural Water Supply
13.       Due to very low water table in the following villages south of
Lahej, their population is deprived of wholesome and adequate water supply.
The Project will finance necessary works including two tubewells and water sup-
ply submains linking the villages with 12" to 10" water supply main connecting
Lahej with the new town of Saber. The water will be distributed by a network
of stand pipes located at convenient places in each village.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Name of Village                           Population (1973)
Ubar as Sulum                                   1,430
Jawl Yamani                                     1,000
Muqayabirah                                       720
Bayt Iyad                                       1,410
Al Mahallah                                       800
Sufyan                                            380
Total                                         5,740
14.       The Public Water Corporation (PWC) will prepare the designs and con-
struct the water supply works. The distribution facilities will be designed
for consumption of 10 imperial gallons per head with future extension margin
in the sub-mains up to 20 imperial gallons per head. The construction will
be either on force account or on local contract basis. Operation and main-
tenance of these schemes will be with PWC. Apart from the pumping machinery,
about 5,000 m of cement asbestos sub-mains (10-15 cm in diameter) and about
7,500 m of GI distribution pipes (2 to 5 cm in diameter), some tools, one
truck and one four-wheel drive vehicle will be provided under the project for
construction and maintenance of the works.
15.       As is customary the operations and maintenance costs will be raised
from the beneficiaries and each household will share the cost depending on
the number of persons in the family.
Agricultural Development
16.       The agriculture development measures include:
(i) Supply of about 1,515 tons of fertilizer and 49 tons of
plant protection chemicals (Annex 8, Table 2) to cover
the project needs for their first crop year plus incre-
mental requirements for the next three years. These
supplies will be distributed in kind to cooperatives
and state farms.
(ii)  Supply of 40-farm tractors about 60 horsepower each
with implements to augment and replace obsolete equip-
ment with MRS and state farms. (Annex 8, Table 6).
(iii)  Establishment of about 105 ha of mangos and about
40 ha of shelter belts.
Project Management Support
17.      The project will finance external technical assistance to Delta Tuban
Development Board (DTDB), toimprove its technical and managerial capabilities.
This assistance will comprise an irrigation agronomist, an extension specialist,
a civil engineer, a farm management specialist and a farm machinery expert. The
farm management specialist, who will train the farm managers and theDTDB Board



ANNEX 5
Page 5
officials in management and accounting techniques, will be employed for a
period of two years and the other expatriates for periods ranging from four to
two years. Eight 4-wheel drive vehicles and 21 motor cycles will be procured
for project management and extension staff.
18.       Management support will also provide for overseas training, equiv-
alent to sixty man-months, for Yemeni counterpart staff and sixty-three man-
months for extension staff.
Water Management Study
19.       The project will finance a comprehensive water management study to
refine the estimates of available surface and ground water potential of Wadi
Tuban area and to produce a long term water management plan for Wadi Tuban
Delta containing proposals for optimum use of the available water resources
for agriculture, household and industrial uses. The work will, inter alia
include, determining feasibility for extending ground water irrigation areas,
recycling of Aden sewage water for irrigating areas around Beir Ahmed and
Shiekh Othman, relocating the Aden water supply wells to prevent salt water
intrusion, importing water from the adjacent Wadi Bana or desalinisation of
theh sea water for household and industrial uses in the project area and Aden.
The terms of reference of the study are in Annex 6.
Study on Agricultural Price, Taxation and Subsidy Policy Systems
20.       The project will finance a study on agricultural price, taxation and
subsidy policy systems to be carried out by consultants. The objectives of
the study will be to propose recommendations outlining alternative policy
investments that could be adopted and their projected effect on productivity,
resource mobilization and income distribution.
LIand Use Association (LANDSAT) Study
21.       The project will finance a land cover/land use association (LANDSAT)
study of selected areas of Yemen to identify areas with groundwater potential
for future agricultural development. The study will be carried out under the
guiLdance of the Planning Resource Unit of the World Bank's Agricultural and
Rural Development Department.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Consultant's Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project includes a provi-
sion for the preparation of a water management study to define the optimum
future use of the water resources of the Wadi Tuban Delta and to determine
the feasibility of using waste water from the Aden sewage treatment plant
for irrigating arable land in the Wadi.
2.        It is intended that this study could eventually lead both to a
second phase Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (which, depending
on the study findings, would further expand the agricultural production of
the delta), and to a water supply project to meet the projected domestic and
industrial (including factory installations) water demand for Aden City and
surrounding urban areas, and other towns and villages in Wadi Tuban Delta. A
separate simultaneous study commissioned by the Public Water Corporation (PWC)
will establish the water demand in Aden. The detailed engineering for the
source of supply identified under the present terms of reference will be
carried out by PWC's consultant.
3.        The agricultural use of water resources within the wadi has recently
been the subject of a study carried out by Italconsult 1/ for UNDP/FAO. The
main conclusions of this report were that, in the intervening period before
more hydrological data is collected and assessed, no further expansion in the
groundwater irrigated area should take place, and that new town water supply
wells will have to be sunk eventually in an unspecified position further north.
These findings were influenced by two low flow years in the wadi and no ex-
ploratory drilling to confirm the geophysical findings in the untapped south-
western part of the aquifer.
4.        A recent cycle of successive dry years and increasing abstractions
from the aquifer have resulted in a progressive lowering of the water table
which is allowing sea water intrusion near coastal areas. Thus, a number of
wells at the Aden potable water supply well field at Sheikh Othman have been
abandoned, and the major source of water now is the well field at Bir Nasir,
which is experiencing operational problems due to the falling water table.
There is therefore an urgent need to refine estimates of the present and
1/   Reports "Soil and Water Utilization and Conservation in the Wadi Tuban
Watershed Area", Italconsult - Nov. 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
future groundwater balance and, with this knowledge, to specify a long-term
water management policy with specific technical and managerial proposals for
its implementation. In addition, a feasibility study for using the Aden
sewage effluent for irrigating the coastal areas between Sheikh Othman and
Beir Ahmed for increasing agricultural production and creating a source of
recharge to prevent salt water intrusion is considered necessary.
Selection of Consulting Firm
5.        A consulting firm experienced in the fields of groundwater explora-
tion, waste or sewage water use, resource planning and utilization will be
employed, in consultation with the Government and IDA, to carry out the pro-
posed study.
6.        On the basis of the TOR's presented below, the interested firms
will make detailed proposals for consulting services and for the provision
of the scientific devices which they cansider necessary to carry out the work.
The proposals will include experience and background of the firm, computer
facilities, staffing program (field and headquarters) and curricula vitae of
proposed staff.
7.        The consultants will cooperate fully with the Government, which
will provide the existing data, facilities and services outlined below.
However, the consultants will be solely responsible for the analysis and
interpretation of all data received and for the findings, conclusions and
recommendations made in their reports. The project manager, in conjunction
with Government departments concerned, will supervise the various phases
of the study and will ensure that it complies with the following terms of
reference.
Terms of Reference
Objectives
8.   A.   The consultants will produce a long-term water management plan
for the Wadi Tuban delta with proposals for meeting the irriga-
tion requirements and increased water supply needs of the non-
agricultural sector.   This could involve, inter alia, the
recycling of sewage effluent, desalination of sea or brackish
water, importing water from the adjacent Wadi Banna, or any
other economic alternative. This long-term management plan
will be discussed and agreed upon with the Government and IDA.
B.   Within the agreed long-term plan, the consultants will have
to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of:
(i) the alternative water supply source for non-agricultural
uses proposed in (A) above;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(ii) the expansion of agriculture within the delta, if the
findings of the water management plan indicate avail-
ability of water for this purpose;
(iii) the use of sewage waste water for irrigation purposes.
Part A - The Water Management Plan
9.        The work for the plan will be in three parts:
(i) The Water Resources Study
10.       The work to be done by the consulting firm under this part will be
to assess the water resources of the Wadi Tuban Delta and will include:
(a) collection of existing geophysical and hydrogeological
data, its verification, analysis and re-interpretation;
(b) collection, reduction and review of all existing hydro-
logical and meteorological data, its analysis and re-
interpretations;
(c) estimation of the historic change of water storage in the
aquifer by reviewing piezometric records;
(d) estimate the rate of recharge to the aquifer both directly
from the river beds and from spate irrigated areas;
(e) confirm the validity of the tentative rating curve for Dukeim
gauging station by direct current metering of high flows.
This will require the installation of a cableway across the
gorge at Dukeim to be installed under the consultants' super-
vision;
(f) establish and monitor a gauging station on the Wadi Abrayn
(NW of Wadi Tuban) in order to estimate this wadi's contri-
bution to the aquifer's resources. This station, and the
cableway described in (e) will allow measurement during
the consultants site surveys and will then be incorporated
into the Wadi's hydrological observation network, run by
the Government;
(g) drill with a Government rig, two exploratory boreholes to con-
firm the geophysical findings in the untapped SW part of the
aquifer and as necessary, install piezometers in parts of the
delta not having shallow wells. It is suggested that these
piezometers could take the form of hand dug shallow wells;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(h) update and refine the mathematical aquifer model used in
the Wadi Tuban study, using the latest estimation of field
parameters.
11.       Production of a landuse/landcover image based on computer categoriza-
tion with a map overlay and a computer processed edge enhanced false color
rendition for hydrologic and geologic evaluation from satellite imagery, accom-
panied by a report to facilitate the evaluation of water resource potential of
selected areas in the territory of the Borrower, will be undertaken by con-
sultant directly under the Planning Resource Unit of the Agricultural and
Rural Development Unit of the Agricultural and Rural Development Department
of the World Bank.
(ii) Techno-economic Study
12.       The work to be carried out umder this part will be to consider
the existing and future demand, alternative supply of water and develop an
optimized plan of aquifer water use, and will include:
(a) a survey of all tubewells and pumped shallow wells to
establish an updated well inventory for the delta. All
details such as discharge, hours run per year, construc-
tion of the we'll, type of pump set and age, water quality
and commanded area should be logged.
(b)  establish the optimum area for spate irrigation both in
terms of agricultural production and maximum average
aquifer recharge,
(c)  using the projected potable and industrial water supply
demand for Aden established by the consultants to PWC
(para 2), investigate the economics of providing alternative
supplies by importing water from the adjacent Wadi Banna 1/,
by flash distillation, reverse osmosis of brackish/sea water,
or any other method;
(d) examine the advisability and estimate the effect and cost
of displacing the main potable supply well field, now at
Bir Nasir, further north or to the untapped SW part of
the aquifer;
(e) review the latest sewerage improvement schemes proposed for
Aden and surrounding towns. Estimate the effect on water
consumption and determine the economics of the extension in
the water-born sewerage system and consider the role to be
played by recycled sewage effluent.
1/   On the basis of present knowledge of the potential of this wadi.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(f) determine the feasibility of using waste water from the Aden
sewage plant for irrigating arable land north of Aden and
creating a source of recharge to prevent salt water intrusion.
(iii) Agreement on Water Management Study
13.       The recommended water management plan will be submitted to Government
for review. Following acceptance of the report and its recommendations, the
consultants will commence work on Part B hereunder.
Part B - The Feasibility Study
14.       This study will be based on the findings of Part A.  It will put
forward costed feasibility level designs of sufficient detail to demonstrate
the physical and economic viability of any new source of potable and indus-
trial water supply. Should the findings of the water management plan indicate
availability of additional water resources for agriculture, the feasibility
study will also examine the technical and economic feasibility of expanding
groundwater irrigated agriculture in the delta. In particular it will make
recommendations on the location of any such expansion and on cropping patterns
maximizing the return from pumped waters. Should it be found that it is
possible to use waste waters from the sewage treatment plant, the feasibility
study will estimate the cost involved in irrigating a specified area of land
in the delta, along with technical details of the proposed works.
Reports
15.       The consulting firm shall submit the following sets of reports, in
English, to Government and copied to IDA as follows:
(a)  an inception report (10 copies) within three months oL
appointment, summarizing initial findings after review
ot existing data and describing the proposed program or
data collection, field work and explorations;
(b) brief progress reports (20 copies) at quarterly intervals,
describing all work performed during the quarter and a
summary of findings, and the work proposed to be done
during the next quarter;
(c) an interim report (20 copies) covering Part A of the study,
after completion of field works and completion and verifica-
tion of the mathematical model (estimated to be within 14
months of appointment), su7mmarizing all work performed, and
identifying the most promising alternative sources of water
supply. This interim report will be the basis for discussion
for the approval of the proposed water management plan by the
Government and IDA;



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(d)  an interim report (20 copies) covering Part B of the study
after completion of field work, preliminary designs and
costing;
(e)  a final report (50 copies) at the conclusion of all data
collection (assumed to be 23 months after appointment) and
after discussion and approval of the interim report on Part B
by Government and IDA, summarize all work done and recommend
the optimum water management plan and its method and timing
of implementation. The final report will also incorporate
the feasibility of the identified water supply source and a
possible second-stage agricultural development project.
Facilities to be Provided by Government
16.       All available relevant data, reports, maps, air photographs, and
other information available on topography, meteorology, hydrology, geology,
land use, etc. will be supplied to the consulting firm, which is not entitled
to publish or disclose any of the information so obtained without the written
consent of the Government.
17.       Government will second suitable technicians to the consulting firms,
which will provide these technicians with in-service training in various study
disciplines. Government will also dig necessary observation wells and drill
the two exploration boreholes (para 10 g).
18.       The consulting firm will recommend to Government a list of suitable
equipment and materials, e.g. vehicles and cableway equipment (for Dukiem
gorge) and gauging equipment (for Wadi Abrayn) with estimated cost, to carry
out the studies mentioned in paras. 8, 9 and 10 above. The equipment and
materials will be procured by the consulting firm after agreement by the
Government and IDA and, the consulting firm will finance the cost of these
items on a non-profit reimbursable basis. Such equipment will be allowed by
Government to be imported free of duties and taxes and will be retained by
Government following completion of the study.
Facilities to be Provided by the Firm
19.       The consulting firm will provide all specialized equipment re-
quired, e.g. survey equipment, drafting equipment, calculators and the like
which will be allowed by Government to be imported and subsequently exported
free of duties and taxes. The firm will be reimbursed for the cost of such
services on a per month basis.
Manpower Requirement
20.       The total manpower requirement for the study is estimated at 70
man months as set out in Table 1. If consultants prefer to present other
time estimates, they must justify them.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Government Decision
21.       Government will have to approve any staff substitution in place of
those mentioned in the consultants' proposals.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Manpower and Phasing of the Water Management Study
Total
Specialist     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30  Man-months
Hydrologist                                                                                                    12
Hydrogeologist                                                                                                 14
Water resources                                        Period for
planner/economist _                                                                                             8
Government
Water supply and
sewerage engineer                                      and IDA                                                 18
Agronomist                                             approval of                                              6
Digital model                                          water manage-
studies                                 _
ment plan
Report writing                                                                                                  7
Total                                                                                       70
i:z
A   1o
August 1977



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Preliminary Outline of a Proposed Study on Agricultural Price,
Taxation and Subsidy !/Policy Systems in PDRY
1.        A historical description of the original objectives, of the price,
taxation and subsidy policy systems prevalent in the agricultural sector
(including cooperative and state farms)--how they work and what recent major
changes have occurred;
2.        An analysis of the importance of the various policy tools with
respect to agricultural production, the Government's budget, and public
savings;
3.        An analysis of the impact of price, taxation and subsidy policies
on incentives and economic efficiency;
4.        An analysis of the incidence of the burdens and benefits of the
administrative price, taxation and subsidy systems on incomes between agri-
culture and industry, between urban and rural areas, and between high- and
low-income groups; and
5.        A set of recommendations outlining alternative policy instruments
that could be adopted and their projected effect on productivity, resource
mobilization and income distribution.
1/   Including interest rate policy.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Irrigation Development - Cost Estimates
(Amounts in YD thousand)
Foreign Exchange
Item                             Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    TOTAL    YD thousand   US$ thousand
A. Civil Works
Land Levelling                             -       127.7     138.0      138.0    403.7          242.2           702.4
Farm Roads                                 -        16.7      18.0       18.0      52.7          15.8            45.8
Laying Pipe Lines                          8.6      46.9       44.1      44.1    143.7           28.7            83.2
Installing Replacement Pumpsets            2.7       3.0       -          -         5.7           -               -
Installing Electrical Connections          6.7       6.7        -         _       13.4            -               _
Total Civil Works                     18.0     201.0     200.1      200.1    619.2          267             831.4
Physical Contingencies (15%)           2.7      30.2      30.0       30.0     92.9           43.0           124.7
Total A                               20.7     231.2     230.1      230.1    712.1          329.7           956.1
B. Equipment
Earth Moving Equipment                   170.2     113.4        -         -      283.6          283.6           822.5
Pipes, Hydrants, Valves                  309.5     206.3        -         -       515.8         515.8         1,495.8
Pump Sets                                 37.8       -          -         -        37.8          37.8           lC9.6
Electrical Equipment                      33.6      33.6        -         -        67.2          67.2           194.9
Total Equipment       /1             551.1     353.3       -          -      9014.4         9044          2,622.8
Physical Contingencies                58.5      38.3       _          -       96.8           96.8           280.7
Total B                              609.6     391.6       -          -    1,001.2        1,001.2         2,903.5
Grand Total (A+B)                    630.3     622.8     230.1      230.1  1,713.3        1,330.9         3,859.6
/1  Physical Contingencies are 15% for Pipes etc., 5% for other equipment.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNMNT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Agricultural Development - Cost Estimates
(Amounts in YD thousand)/l
Foreign Exchange
Item                                 Year 1    Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    TOTAL      YD thousand  US$ thousand
A. Fertilizers and Chemicals2
Urea - metric tons                         259        180        178         170        787
Ammonium Sulphate - metric tons            100         99          98         91        388
Triple Superphosphate - metric tons         90         88         86          76        340
Fertilizer Costs - YD thousand            25.2       19.9       19.7        18.3       83.1           74.8          216.9
Chemicals - YD thousand                   43.2      14.6        14.3        13.8       85.9           77.3          224.2
Total                              68.4      34.5       3340         32.1     169.0          152.1          441.1
Physical Contingencies (15%)       10.2       5.2         5.1         4.8      25.3           22.8           66.1
Total A                            78.6      39.7        39.1        36.9     194.3           1 77          507.2
B. Farm Machinery                           134.9      202.3         -          -        337.2          337.2          977.9
Physical Contingencies (5%)         6.7      10.1         -           -        16.8           16.8           48.7
Total B                           11        212T          _           -       354.0                       1,026.6
C. Orchard and Shelterbelts
Mango establishment                        9.6        9.6        9.6         -         28.8            -              -
Shelterbelts (total 210 km)                2.8        2.8        2.8         2.6       11.0            -              -
Total                             12.4       12.4        12.4         2.6      39.8            -              -
Physical Contingencies (15%)        1.8       1.8         1.8         0.4       5.8             _             _
Total C                            14.2      17.2        14.2         3.0      45.6            -              -
Grand Total (A+B+C)              234.4      266.3        53.3        39.9     593.9          528.9        1,533.8
/1  Quantities of fertilizer are in metric tons.
/2  Incremental costs from year to year.  In Year 1, total costs are included;  thereafter, only costs incremental
to the previous year.
/3  Details in the equipment list (Table 6).
r13
CD >C
r' CO



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Project Management - Cost Estimates
(Amounts in YD thousand)
Foreign Exchange
Item                                Year 1    Year 2       Year 3      Year 4    TOTAL       YD thousand  US$ thousand
A. Staff
Technical Assistance(Expatriates)(5)    82.0          82.0        82.0        61.5      307.5          307.5          891.7
Counterparts(5) and Co-Manager              4.6        4.6         4.6         4.6       18.4            -
Extension Agents(21)                        5.5       10.5        10.5        10.5       37.0
Site Engineers(3)                           2.2        2.2         2.3         2.3        9.0
Accountancy(l)                              o.6        0.7         0.7         0.7        2.7
Other(ll)                                   4.0        4.0         4.0         4.0       16.0            -
Total Staff Costs                98.9      T104.1                   83.6      390.6          307.5           891.7
Contingencies(15%)               14.8       15.6        15.6        12.6       58.6           46.1           133.7
Total A                         113.7      119.6       119.7        96.2      449.2          353.6        1,025.4
B. Training                                    -         18.0        18.0        18.0       54.0           54.o           156.6
Contingencies(15%)                _          2.7         2.7         2.7        8.1             8.1           23.5
Total B                           -         20.7        20.7        20.7       62.1            62.1          180.1
C. Equipment
Vehicles                                   34.9        -           -           -         34.9           34.9          101.2
Extension Training Equipment                1.6        0.3         0.3         0.3        2.5            2.5             7.3
Office Equipment                            6.o        -           -           -          6.o            2.0             5.8
Total Equipment                  42.5        0.3         0.3         0.3                       39.4          114.3
Physical Contingencies(5%)        2.1                    -           -          2.2             2.0            5.8
Total C                          44.6        0.3         0.3         0.3       45.6            41.4          120.1
D.  Operating Costs (Total D)                  3.9        7.7         7.7         7.7       27.0
Grand Total (A+B+C+D)           162.2      148.3       148.4       124.9      583.9          457.1         1,325.6



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Social Infrastructure and Water Study - Cost Estimates
(Amounts in YD thousand)
Foreign Exchange
Item                             Year 1    Year 2        Year 3      Year 4    TOTAL           YD thousand   US$ thousand
A. Civil Works
Installing Pipes and Tubewells              -         11.8        17.6         17.6       47.0                23.5            68.1
Feeder Roads Construction                   -         25.4        27.6         27.6       80.6                24.2            70.2
Total Civil Works                    -         37.2        45.2        45.2      127.6                47.7            138.3
Physical Contingencies(15%)          -          5.6         6.8         6.8       19.2                 7.2             20.9
Total A                              -         42.8        52.0        52.0      146.8                54.9            159.2
B. Equipment - Water Supply
Water Pipes, Hydrants, etc.                 -         25.5          -           -         25.5                25.5             73.9
Pumps and Motors                            8.6        3.7          -           -         12.3                12.3             35.7
Transport Vehicles                          6.o        6.o         -            _         12.0                12.0             34.8
Total Equipment                     14.6       35.2         -           _         49.8                49.8            144.4
Physical Contingencies               0.7        4.3         -           -          5.0                 5.0             14.5
Total B                             15.3       39.5         -           -         54.8                54.8            158.9
C. Water Study
Consultants' Costs                         51.1      102.2        51.2          -       204.5                184.0           533.6
Equipment                                   -         36.1         -            -         36.1                36.1           104.7
Total Water Study                   51.1     138.3         51.2         -        240.6               220.1            638.3
Physical Contingencies               7.7       20.7         7.7         -         36.1                33.0             95.7
Total C                             58.8      159.0        58.9         -        276.7               253.1            734.0
D. Agricultural Policies Study
Consultants' Costs                         68.9        -           -           -         68.9                68.9            200.0
Grand Total (A+B+C+D)              143.0      241.3       _____        52.0      547.2               431.7          1,252.i
co



ANNEX 8
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Consultants - Cost Summary
Estimated Cost
Item                                             Foreign       Local       Total
Months       -         US$ thousand -------
Project Management
A. Extension Service
Irrigation Agronomist (Manager)           48          237.8           -        237.8
Irrigation Engineer                       42          208.1           -        208.1
Extension Specialist                      42          208.1           -        208.1
Farm Management Specialist                24          118.9           -         118.9
Farm Machinery Expert                     24          118,9           -        118.9
Total Extension Service           180          891.8          -         891.8
Contingencies (15%)                            133.7                    133,7
Total A Li                        180       1,025.5                   1,025.5
B. Water Study /2
Hydrologist                               10           76.5           8.5       85.0
Hydrogeologist                            14          107.1         11.9       119.0
Economist (Water Resources Planner)        8           61.2           6.8       68.0
Engineer (Water Supply/Sewage)            20          153.0         17.0       170.0
Agronomist                                 6           45.9           5.1       51.0
Studies and Reports                       12           91.8         10.2       102.0
Total Water Study                70          535.5         59.5       595.0
Contingencies (15%)                           80.3           8.9       89.2
Total B                          70          615.8          68.4      684.2
C. Agricultural Policies Study
Consultants' Cost                         40          200.0          -         200.0
Total C                          40          200.0          -         200.0
Grand Total (A+B+C)             290        1,841.3         68.4    1,909.7
/1 With price contingencies, the total cost of these consultants is estimated to
be US$1.32 million or about US$88,000 per year. Local costs for vehicle running
expenses of the consultants have been included in the general budget of the
extension service.
/2 Costs for these consultants are inclusive of all costs related to the water
study, except equipment, i.e., they include overhead of a consulting firm,
transport, accommodation, etc. With price contingencies, the total cost of
the study will be about US$991,000.



ANNEX 8
Table 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Equipment Lists
Estimated Cost
Item                                 Number      YD thousand      US$ thousand
Irrigation Development
Pumps (vertical shaft turbine)                10             21.0               60.9
Motors - 30 HP                                16              9.6               27.8
- 60 HP                                 8              7.2              20.9
Trans formers                                 24             31.2               90.5
Electrical fittings                                          36.o              104.4
Pipes (cement asbestos)                                     430.5           1,248.4
Pipe fittings                                                85.3              247.4
Crawler Tractors - 70-90 HP                    5             81.0             234.9
- 140 HP                     5            107.5             311.8
Motor Graders (130 HP)                         2             47.8              138.6
Spare Parts (earthmoving equipment)(20%)                     47.3             137.2
Subtotal                                             904.4           2,622.8
Contingencies                                         96.8             280.7
Total A                                           1,001.2            2,903.5
B.    Agricultural Development
Wheel Tractors (60-70 HP)                     40            138.0              400.2
Ploughs (moldboard)                           30             10.5               30.4
Cultivators (tyne)                            20              6.o              17.4
Chisel Ploughs                                10              4.0              11.6
Land Planers                                  10             14.5               42.1
Ridgers                                        6              2.1                6.1
Border Disc                                    6              5.1               14.8
Ditchers                                       6              4.2              12.2
Seed Drills                                    6              8.4               24.4
Planters (cotton/maize)                        6              9.9               28.7
Fertilizer Spinner Broadcaster                 6              2.4                7.0
Mower/Conditioner                              6              9.9               28.7
Baler (pick-up)                                3              5.6               16.2
Forage Harvester                               6              7.5               21.7
Forage Wagon                                   6              4.8               13.9
Trailer (tipping)                             10              7.0               20.3
Sprayers (tractor mounted)                    60             36.0             104.4
Stalk Shredder                                 6              5.1               14.8
Spare Parts (20%)                                            56.2             163.0
Subtotal                                             337.2             977.9
Contingencies                                         16.8              48.7
Total B                                              354.0           1,026.6



ANNEX 8
Table 6
Page 2
Estimated Cost
Item                             Number          YD thousand      uS$ thousand
C.   Project Management
Transportation Vehicles (4WD) - LWB         4                 14.0               40.6
- SWB       4                 8.8               25.5
Motor Cycles                               21                  6.3               18.3
Spare Parts (20%)                                              5.8              16.8
Extension Equipment                                            2.5                7.2
Office Equipment                                               6.o              17.4
Subtotal                                             43.4              125.8
Contingencies                                         2.2                6.4
Total C                                              45.6              132.2
D.   Rural Water Supply
Transportation Vehicles (LA.fD) - LWE       1                  3.5              10.1
Trucks (6 ton)                              1                  6.5              18.9
Spare Parts (20%)                                              2.0                5.8
Pumps(electric, submersiblc, with L.:otors)  2                10.0               29.0
Chlorination Plant                          1                  0.5               1.5
Tools                                                          1.8                5.2
Pipes (cement asbestos) and fittings                          15.0               43.5
Pipes (GI) and fittings                                       10.5               30.4
Subtotal                                             149.8             14.
Contingencies                                         5.0               14.5
Total D                                              514.8             158.9
Grand Total (A+B+C+D)                             1,455.6            _,_221.



ANNEX 8
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF                 Page 1
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Cost Breakdown-
Land Levelling
Earth-moving equipment-Hourly operation rates
D4 bulldozer
Depreciation:  YD 16,200/9,000 hours life                      1.800
Spares, repairs and maintenance:  1.1 x depreciation           1.980
Fuel cost:  75  HP x 0.1 1/hour/HP x YD 0.350/4.54             0.578
Lubrication: Fuel cost x 0.2
Interest:                                                       .112
capital cost/2 x annual interest 6% x 1/1800 hours
run/year                                                     0.270
Sub-total                       4.740
Overhead costs:  12% of sub-total                              0.569
Driver + mate (8 hours a day)                                  0.320
Total cost per hour             5.629
D6 bulldozer
Depreciation;  YD 21,400/9,000 hours life                      2.378
Spares, repairs and maintenance: 1.1 x depreciation            2.616
Fuel cost:  140 HP x 0.1 1/hour/HP x YD 0.350/4.54             1.079
Lubrication: Fuel cost x 0.2                                   0.216
Interest:
capital cost/2 x annual interest 6% x 1/1800 hours
run/year                                                     0.357
Sub-total                       6.646
Overhead costs:  12% of sub-total                              0.798
Driver + mate (8 hours a day)                                  0.320
Total cost per hour             7.764
/1 For the purpose of estimate only



ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 2
120 G Motor grader
Depreciation:  YD 23,900/9,000 hours life                          2.655
Spares, repairs and maintenance:  1.1 x depreciation               2.920
Fuel cost:  125 HP x 0.1 1/hour/HP x YD 0.350/4.54                 1.000
Lubrication:  Fuel cost x 0.2                                      0.200
Interest:
capital cost/2 x annual interest 6% x 1/1800
hours run/year                                                   0.398
Sub-total                     7.173
Overhead costs:  12% of sub-total                                  0.861
Driver + mate (8 hours a day)                                      0.320
Total cost per hour           8.354
Assuming efficiency of machinery use as 50% under project management, ctle
earth moving costs will be:
Output over      Cost/hour       Cost/m3     Cost/hd
Machine type              average hour         YD              YD          YD
D6 Caterpillar type
bladed bulldozer          20 m3/h           7.764          0.39
D4 Caterpillar type
bladed bulldozer          14 m3/h          5.629           0.40
Motor Grader                 3 h/ha          8.354                     S5.062
Land Levelling - Cost per hectare
The average amount of earth moving is
estimated to be 500 m3/ha.                            YD
Cost per hectarc is therefore:
D4/D6 bulldozer - 500 m3 x YD) 0.40                     20(i.00
Motor grader - 3 hrs x YD 8.647                       25.06
Surveyor & assistant 1 day x YD 1.350                  1.45
rotal cosL pEr hectare         226.,1
bay        230 .: ,'ha



ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 3
Estimate of earth-moving equipment requirement
Total earth work:  500 x 1755         =   877,500 m3
Average hourly   progress per
machine                              =        17 m3
Number of machine hours               =   877,500
17
=   51,618
Number of machine days                =   51,618
6
=   8603
For completing work in about
3 years with 900 working days:
No. of machines requires            =   8610
900  =  10
Use 5 D6 and 5 D4 types
Water distribution works
Cement - asbestos pipe (Bitumen-dipped)
Quantity at 70 meters/ha = 1755 x 70            =  122850 say 123000 meters
20 cm dia pipe = 30,000 m
15 cm dia pipe = 93,000 m
93000 meters pipe @ 3.10 YD/m                   =  288300  YD
30000   "     "   @ 4.74 YD/m                   =  142200  YD
Sub-total             =  430500  YD
Hydrant valves including connections
1755 number x 42 YD                           =  736000  YD
Flow control valves, non-return
Valves, additional pipe fittings
69 wells x 170 YD/well                        =  11700
Sub-total             =  85,300  YD
Civil Works
123,000 m  laying of pipes @ 0.75 YD/m          =  92200   YD
Handling and transport of materials
@ 10% of cost of materials                    =  51500
Sub-total             =  143,700



ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 4
Village Water Supply
Works                                                       4.12
Installing, developing and testing of
tubewells up to 130 meter depth @ 100 YD/meter          26,000
Laying 16000'of cement - asbestos pipes
@ 0.20 YD/foot                                           3,200
Laying 24000' of G.I. pipes @ 0.2 YD/foot                4,500
Electrification of pumps                                 8,000
Handling and transport of drilling
machines and materials                                   4,000
Construction of pump houses                              1,000
Sub-total                   47,000
Pipes including fittings
6,000' cement asbestos pipe 6" dia @1.200 YD/ft           7,200
10,000' cement asbestos pipe 4" dia @0.800 YD/ft           8,000
6,000' G.I. pipe 2" dia @0.600 YD/ft                      3.600
9,000' G.I. pipe 1.5" dia @0.500 YD/ft                    4,500
5,000' G.I. pipe 1" dia @0.300 YD/ft                      1,500
4,000' G.I. pipe 0.75" dia @0.200 YD/ft                      800
Sub-total                   25,600
Pumping sets
2 submersible electric pumping
sets including internal electrical
installation YD5000  each                               10,000
Tools and test equipment                                    2,300
Sub-total                   12,300



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Phasing of Protect Costs
(ounts in YD thousand)
Year 1               Year 2               Year 3                Year 4                    TOTAL                 TOTAL
Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign   Total       (7S$'T0c 
Irrigation Improvement
Base cost                       9      560         109       445        107        93         107        93         332     1,191    1,523       4,417
Physical contingencies          1       60          16        52         16        14          16        14          50       140       190        551
Price contingencies             2       71          30       104         43        37          56        49        131        261       392      1,137
Subtotal                         12      691         155       601         166      144         179       156         513     1,592    2,105       l;105
Fertilizers and Chemicals
Base cost                       7       62           3        31           3       31           3        29          17       152       169        490
thysical contingencies          1        9           1         5          1         4           1         4           3        23        25         72
Price contingencies             1        a           1         7           1       10           1        13           4         38       42        122
Subtotal                          9       79           5        43           5       45           5        46          24       213       236        684
Agricultural Machinery
Base cost                              135                   202                                                              337       337        977
Physical contingencies                   7                    10                                                               17        17         49
Price contingencies                     16                    42                                                               59        59        17
.'ibtotal                               158                  254                                                               413       413      1,198
Orchard and Shelterbelts
Base cost                      12                   12                   12                     3                     40                 40        116
Physical contingencies          2                    2                    2                     -                      6                  6         17
Price contingencies             2                    3                    5                     1                    11                  11         32
Subtotal                         16                   17                    19                    4                     57                 57        165
Project Management
Base cost                      25      121          30       100          30      100          30        80          114      401       515      1, 494
Physical contingencies          3       14           3        15           3       15           3        12          13        56        69        Poc
Price contingencies             3       18           6        28          9        40          12        41           30      127       157        455
Subtotal                         31      153          39       143          42      155          45       133          157      584       741      2,149
Water Supply
Base cost                               14           6        41           9        9           9         9           23       73        97        281
Physical contingencies                   1           1         5          1         1           1         1            4        9        12         35
Price contingencies                      2           2        10           4        4           5         5          10        19        29         84
Subtotal                                  17           9        56          14       14          15        15           37      101       138        400
Feeder Roads
Base cost                                           18         8         19         8          19         8           56       24        81        235
Physical contingencies                               3         1           3        1           3         1            8        4        12         35
Price contingencies                                  5         2          8         4          10         5          23        10        32         93
Subtotal                                              26        11          30       13          32        14           87       38       125        363
Water Study
Base cost                       5       46          10      128           5        46                                20       220      240        696
Physical contingencies          1        7           2        19          1         7                                 3        33        36       104
Price contingencies             1        7           3        34          2        18                                 6        60        66       191
Subtotal                          7       60          15       181          8        71                                29       313       342       992
TOTAIS'/
Base cost                      59      937         189      956         186       287         171      219          6o4    2,399    3,003       8,709
Physical contingencies          8       98          27      107          27        43          24       33           86       281      367      i,o64
Price contingencies             8      123          50      226          71       112          85      111          214       573      787      2,282
TOTAL                         75    1,158          266    1,289         284       442        280       363          9o4    3,253    4,157    12,055
/1  Individual items may not total to these figures because of rounding.  Items less than YD 500 are indicated by '-' in the table.
A cell left blank indicates that the item is zero.



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IIDA Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                       at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
11977/78:
June 30, 1978                                         150
1'978/79:
September 30, 1978                                    400
December 31, 1978                                     650
March 31, 1979                                      1,070
June 30, 1979                                      1,450
1979/80:
September 30, 1979                                 1,950
December 31, 1979                                  1,430
March 31, 1980                                     2,900
June 31, 1980                                      3,375
1980/81:
September 30, 1980                                 3,500
December 31, 1980                                  3,700
March 31, 1981                                     3,900
June 30, 1981                                      4,200
1981/82:
September 30, 1981                                 4,450
December 31, 1981                                  4,700
March 31, 1982                                     4,950
June 30, 1982                                      5,200



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization and Management
Policy
1.        The policy Thr agriculture in PDRY is determined by the Higher
Political Committee for Agriculture which is chaired by the President of
the Republic. This Committee approves the annual cropping plans submitted
through MAAR by the cooperatives and state farms. Plans must conform with
the five-year development plans specifically designed to meet the national
food production requirements and provide agricultural raw materials for the
agroindustries. The Director of the Department of Cooperatives of the MAAR
is the Committee secretary.
Operation
2.        The MAAR is responsible for implementing agricultural policy.  The
MAAR has a Minister, a Permanent Secretary, six departments and two sections.
The Ministry Corporations such as the Delta Tuban Development Board
(DTDB), the Agricultural Development Boards, the Public Corporation for Market-
ing Fruit and Vegetables anid the Public Fish Wealth Corporation are directly
linked to the Minister's Office (Chart WB 17632).
Former Organization (LADB)
3.        The Lahej Agricutural Development Board (LADB) was a semi-autonomous
body answerable directly to the Minister of Agriculture.  It was the only
established organization that was operating in the delta and familiar with
the situation and problems. It had a seven member Board of Directors and the
Permanent Secretary of MAAR is the Chairman. There was representation from
the state farms and the cooperatives on the Board.  The organization and
management of the state farms and cooperatives were presented in Annex 4.
The daily control was in the hands of a manager appointed by the Board. The
manager was assisted by Lhe heads of the four sections, namely Agriculture,
Cotton Ginnery, Accounting and the Machinery Renting Section (MRS) (Chart WB
17755).
4.        The agricultural sect .Ln was responsible for the control of spate
irrigation, supervision of the extension service, land reclamation, plant pro-
tection and fertilizer distribution. Through an internal Irrigation Council
there was equitable distribution of the spate water during each flood on the
basis of agreed cropping patterns. The extension service had 18 extension
agents permanently stationed ir, the seven cooperatives.  They were not func-
tioning, however, as true extension agents. The land reclamation section



ANNEX 10
Page 2
handled the annual repairs required to maintain the spate irrigation system.
Fertilizers and pesticides were distributed to the cooperatives. The cotton
ginnery section collected, graded, ginned and marketed the cotton grown in
the area. The accounting section maintains records related to the cotton
program. It also served as the imprest office for the disbursements in regard
to the MRS and extension officers whose payment was the responsibility of
other departments in MAAR. The MRS rented agricultural machinery to coopera-
tives, occasionally to state farms and recently to other organizations in the
Second Governorate.
New Organization and Management
5.        The project will be implemented by the successor of LADB, the Delta
Tuban Development Board (DTDB), within the framework of the existing
policy making bodies. DTDB is an autonomous body answerable directly to the
Minister of Agriculture. Its eleven member board of directors, with represen-
tation from both the cooperative and state farms, is headed by the Permanent
Secretary of MAAR. In order for the DTDB to carry out the project it will
have expanded responsibilities and its management will be strengthened by the
recruitment of five expatriates for periods of up to four years. The special-
ists are an Irrigation Agronomist, an Irrigation (civil) Engineer, an Extension
Expert, a Farm Management Expert and a Farm Machinery Expert. To further
support the DTDB and to enable it to continue to carry out its new respon-
sibilities, counterparts for the specialists will also be provided. They will
receive in-service training during the period the expatriates are involved.
Details on the costing for the proposed organization and management of the
project by DTDB are presented in Annex 8, Table 3.
6.        The new responsibilities of DTDB will be to:
-    provide extension services to state farms and cooperatives.
An effective extension service will be established, whose
responsibility will be to advise and train cooperative
farmers on improved agricultural and irrigation practices.
Technical officers will also be stationed on the State farms
and will be responsible for advising the manager on proper
agricultural techniques recommended by the project extension
service, and the execution of the cropping plan proposed for
the particular farm;
-    design and supervise construction of civil works to be imple-
mented by the project in the groundwater irrigated areas;
-    conduct routine maintenance of tubewells and the groundwater
irrigation distribution system. The tubewells are less than
10 years old, and previously no single body has had the
regular servicing respnsibility for them. The Public Cor-
poration for Electric Power has installed and wired the
electric motors used for pumping. It is also servicing
motors, starter gear and overload devices. The diesel units
have been serviced by local staff. The installation and
replacement of pumps has been the responsibility of the
Department of Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
undertake the distribution of inputs for the whole project
area. At present, the state farms order their inputs from
the Department of Agricultural Production. In the future,
the DTDB will be expected to provide summary totals of all
inputs required within the Wadi Taban Delta. It will
therefore be much simpler and easier to implement produc-
tion programs if the DTDB has the overall responsibility
for issuing commodity inputs such as fertilizer and plant
protection products;
provide administrative and accounting support to, and super-
vision of the state farms and cooperatives.
7.        The reorganized DTDB, illustrated in Chart WE 17523, will give the
expatriate project manager, assisted by a co-project manager, a direct link
with the Accounts Section, the Machinery Rental Station and the Agricultural
Section. The irrigation works, extension service and farm management units of
the Agricultural Section will be headed by expatriates, and each will have a
counterpart. It is expected that the counterparts will hold at least a basic
degree in their specialty. With short, practical overseas training (see
paras. 12 and 13) added to their in-service training, these counterparts
should be able to assume the full responsibilities of the units they are
attached to by the time the expatriate contracts terminate.
Extension Service
8.        The expatriate director of the Extension Service will prepare the
overall extension program, provide guidance and assistance in the training of
agents, develop a technically competent staff and supervise staff performance.
He and his counterpart for, backstopping purposes, will maintain direct con-
tact through biweekly or monthly meetings with the specialists at the El Kod
Research Station, and weekly-meetings with the supervisor of the Demonstra-
tion Farm planned for the Wadi Tuban Delta under a UNDP project. It will be
the responsibility of the expatriate director and his counterpart to become
knowledgeable about adaptive research results from the El Kod Research Station
and to use the information for program building. They will also keep the
scientists at the station informed on problems and difficulties experienced
in the field that should be given attention by the station. This information
will help the El Kod Research Station plan its annual research program. In
addition, a close liaison will be established with the training institutes
(Annex 2, para 17) in order to have some influence on the offering of courses
that will be relevant to the needs of the Extension Agents.
9.        The Extension Service will be expected to significantly effect an
increase in agricultural production by working directly with farm managers,
farmers and field personnel in the introduction of improved cultivars and
new cultural practices, the efficient use of water, crop fertilization, plant
protection techniques and the adoption of other improved practices. Emphasis
will be placed on teaching those with whom they have contact. Since agricul-
tural chemicals will be used extensively, the agents will be given special



ANNEX 10
Page 4
training in such areas as pesticide use, storage, health care and disposal of
pesticide containers. The agents will be made aware of the need to constantly
look out for any detrimental effects that might be created by applying pes-
ticides. The concentration of effort by each agent at first will be on
introducing improved cultivars, fertilization and pest control. The agents
in order to reach and effectively communicate with their clients, will be well
trained in working with individuals and groups, demonstration techniques, the
preparation and use of visual aids and the operation of audio visual equipment.
10.       The staff required to carry out the extension program in the co-
operatives will be based on having one agent responsible for 750 families.
For the seven cooperatives, a total of nine extension agents will be required.
On each state farm one technical officer will be assigned under the general
management of the farm manager. He will be responsible for the implementation
of the approved cropping plan and will receive his technical backstopping
from the project management. The project management will maintain direct and
frequent contact with the state farm managers to review program progress and
to assist in the resolution of any technical problems that may arise. The
overall supervision of the extension and technical officers will be carried
out by the expatriate extension director and his counterpart. The project
manager, expatriate irrigation engineer and farm management consultant,
however, will provide additional support in this respect, particularly in
the areas of their expertise.
11.       The DTDB has sufficient space to accommodate the headquarters for
the project and the main Extension Office. The project will supply funds for
the office equipment required. The extension and technical officers will
be expected to reside in the farm facilities now available and receive the
housing allowances normally provided for officers when they are in the field.
The extension staff will have to be mobile and the project will provide a
four-wheel drive vehicle for the senior extension officer (counterpart to the
Director of Extension) and lightweight motorcycles for each extension officer.
Funds under the project will also be provided for the training supplies and
equipment needed by the Extension Service to conduct its work such as slide
projectors, 35 mm cameras, portable screens, 16 mm film projectors, overhead
projectors, flip cards, as well as costs for renting educational films. Field
demonstrations in farmers' plots and on the state farms have proven to be an
effective way to transfer technology, and break through the conservatism and
overcome the skepticism of the farmers and farm managers. Funds will be
provided under the project to continue and expand this approach.
Training and Selection of Local Staff
12.       The extension personnel, agents and techncial officers, will require
some in-service training which will be provided by the extension director and
others he may call upon. The resource persons for in-service training could
come from the El Kod Research Station, staff members of the Nassar Agricultural
College at Lahej and the Cooperative Education and Training Center at (Dar
Sa'ad) as well as selected personnel from the MAAR. Support will also come
from the expatriate (3) staff. In-service training will be on a continuing



ANNEX 10
Page 5
basis but confined mainly to the summer period in the perennially irrigated
area, when only forage crop production will be taking place, and the winter
for the spate area when there is no spate water. The equipment listed in para
11 will also be used for this program.
13.       It is expected that the extension and technical officers will be
selected from among those that have been trained at Dar Sa'ad or Giar insti-
tute or their equivalent. They should be graduates of a secondary school
and have some farming experience. It should be possible to select from among
the agents now working for the Board a few persons for retraining at Giar.
The five months practical course offered at Giar should be beneficial to
those selected. To improve the agents proficiency and broaden their view on
agriculture, each agent will be sent to a suitable neighboring country for a
three-months course in Agriculture Extension. Funds for this program will be
provided for under the project.
14.       The six counterparts for the expatriates will be holders of basic
degrees either from Nasser Institute at Lahej or a school of equivalent level.
After serving with their respective expatriate officers for at least one year,
those who have proven their ability would be sent for overseas training for 6
to 12 months. The training will be of a practical nature, specific for the
area of work he is engaged in and at a place which has a reputation for com-
petence in the respective fields. Funds for 60 man-months of training will
be provided for under the project. It will be possible under this allocation
to send ten persons (counterparts) for six months each. Each person given
overseas training will be reassigned to his former assignment with DTDB.
Accounting and Recording
15.       Along with the expanded responsibilities of the LADB there will be
a corresponding increase in the accounting activities of the Board. This
will involved:
-    accounting for extra staff;
-    interpretation and summation of farming data received from
the state farms, cooperatives and the extension service;
-    the creation of a budget for each of the farms in the
project area, and the subsequent financial and enterprise
comparisons and evaluation;
-    supplying the DTDB and MAAR with technical and/or financial
performance reports;
-    liaison with the Audit Department, MAAR, on audit proce-
dures affecting the state and cooperative farms.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
16.       Based on current journal entries, the present clerical staff could
handle the additional load with the adoption of the new unified (double entry)
system modified to meet DTDB's particular needs. It is expected that the farm
management specialist will assist the Accounts Section Head in streamlining
the account operations and in implementing the new accounting system. The
farm manager specialist will also summarize and interpret the farm data
obtained from all the farms and the Extension Service and teach the Accounts
Section Head how to perform this task.
17.       The DTDB audit staff should be expanded to conduct audits of the
state and cooperative farms, and these staff should be responsible to the
Central Audit Section, Department of Cooperatives. The farm management
specialist will establish a simple format to be used by the state farms and
cooperatives to record all essential data and maintain suitable records that
will be in accord with the new unified accounting system and still provide
vital data for evaluating performances. Sufficient funds are provided in the
project for recruiting a short-term consultant, should the need arise, to
assist in the retraining of the accountants in the new unified system that
Government wants to introduce in 1978, and to help reorganize and streamline
operations in the accounting section.
Terms of Reference - Expatriate Specialists
18.       The supporting staff required to implement the project and to be
assigned to the DTDB are: an Irrigation Agronomist, Irrigation (civil)
Engineer, Extension Specialist, a Farm Management Specialist and a Farm
Machinery Expert. The expatriate specialist with the best management qual-
ifications will be selected to become Project Manager. Funds for these
expatriate specialists as well as counterparts and extension personnel will
be provided for under this project and are presented in detail in Annex 8,
Table 3.
Qualifications and Responsibilities
19.       The qualifications and responsibilities of the Expatriate Special-
ists are presented below:
A.   Irrigation Agronomist
1.   Qualifications.  The candidate should have at least a MSc.
degree or equivalent in Agronomy with a minor in Irrigation
or vice versa from a recognized institution, and a minimum of
10 years experience in the field of agronomy and irrigation
in a tropical, arid region involved with the production of
cotton, sorghum, maize and vegetables. Some ability to com-
municate in Arabic will be desirable.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
2.   Responsibilities.  The irrigation agronomist will be responsible
for: (i) the irrigation and agronomic aspect associated with
crop production; (ii) preparing the guidelines and impr\oved
recommended irrigation practices to be undertaken in the
project area; (iii) arranging the cropping pattern for each
state farm so that each one will fit into the overall project
production schedule and still conform with the 4-year rotation.
Duration of assignment: 4 years.
B.   Irrigation (Civil) Engineer
1.   Qualifications.  The candidate should have preferably an MSc.
degree in Civil Engineering with emphasis on irrigation, water
pumps, water control and distribution systems; he should have
at least 12 years experience in the design and installation of
various forms of irrigation equipment in a desert or tropical
belt of the world. Experience in land levelling operations
would be an additional asset.
2.   Responsibilities.  The Irrigation (Civil) Engineer will be
responsible for: (i) the design and execution of all civil
works, including land levelling, to be directly undertaken
by the project; (ii) establishing and maintaining the
required liaison with government agencies responsible for
implementing the rural water supply and feeder road program;
(iii) providing in-service traini4g for his counterpart and
the trairitng of the three assistant engineers in the field of
surveying, setting out, pipe fitting and routine maintenance
of pipework, fittings and tubewell pumps; and (iv) he will
follow-up the work carried out inder the Water Management Study
and will advise the Government on the progress made. Duration
of assignment: 3-1/2 years.
C.   Extension Specialist
1.   Qualifications.  The candidate should at least have a MSc.
degree in Agriculture with a minor in Extension or vice
versa; he should be fluent in English and Arabic and have
a minimum of 10 years experience in developing extension
programs in arid regions and working with small farmers;
he should be familiar with the production of cotton,
tomatoes, sorghum, maize and should have a knowledge of
livestock; he should have experience with training exten-
sion agents and farmers and be familiar with all audio and
visual systems of communication.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
2.   Responsibilities.  The Extension Specialist will:  (i) train
and supervise the extension agents assigned to the Wadi Tuban
area; he will be assisted by his counterpart; (ii) organize and
develop an effective extension service and implement a practical
program; (iii) establish and maintain liaison with research
personnel and supervisors of the demonstration farm for the
dissemination of technical recommendations to farmers and
farm managers. Duration of assignment: 3-1/2 years.
D.   Farm Management Specialist
1.   Qualifications.  The candidate should have at least a MSc.
degree covering Agronomy and Agricultural Economics.  He
should have a minimum of five years farm management expe-
rience in tropical and arid farming regions. He should
also have accounting experience and a full understanding
of single and double entry accounting, record design and
statistics.
2.   Responsibilities.  The Farm Management Specialist will:
(i) train project and extension staff in farm management
techniques; (ii) assist the Accounts Section Head in
streamlining the account operations and in implementing
the new unified accounting system; (iii) cooperate with
the expatriate extension officer to provide the format
to be used for record keeping on the state and cooperative
farms (this format would be compatible with the new unified
system of accounting to be introduced by Government); (iv)
organize the collection and processing of crop production
data; (v) prepare analytical reports on crop performance;
(vi) develop simple on-farm budgeting, including cash flows;
(vii) collaborate with the central authority to provide an
acceptable form of data presentation for the use of management,
the Board of Directors and MAAR departments. Duration of
assignment: 2 years.
E.   Farm Machinery Expert
1.   Qualifications.  The candidate should have a degree in
Mechanical or Agricultural Engineering with emphasis on
maintenance and repairs of agricultural and earthmoving
machinery. He should have at least ten years' experience
of running a workshop dealing with the testing, overhauling,
repairing and maintaining of such machines.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
2.   Responsbilities.  The farm machinery expert will be respon-
sible for: (i) supervising the maintenance and repair shops
of the DTDB and training the local staff in the repair and
maintenance jobs of the agricultural, earthmoving and trans-
port machinery; (ii) assessing the requirements of the spare
parts for proper upkeep of the machinery under the charge of
DTDB, assisting in their procurement and supervising their
storage and use; (iii) inspecting the machines while at work
in the field to ensure their proper and efficient use by the
operators; (iv) assisting the organization in determining
the per hour operating costs of different machines and revise
the prevailing MRS rates; and (v) introduce new farm machinery
practices at farm level and train local operators. Duration
of assignment: 2 years.
F.   Project Manager
1.   Qualifications.  The expatriate expert with the most experience
in planning, management and supervision will become project
manager.
2.   Responsibilities.  The project manager will be responsible for:
(i) all detailed planning within the established policy and
project implementation; (ii) all operating decisions to be
taken on a day-to-day basis, training his co-manager counter-
part in the managerial and planning aspects of the pro_ect;
(iii) training his technical counterpart; (iv) timely prepara-
tion of the quarterly and annual progress reports. The expa-
triate project manager will be an ex-officio member of DTDB
and serves it in an advisory capacity. He will report directly
to the Chairman of DTDB, who is Permanent Secretary of MAAR,
through the General Manager. The project manager will prepare
the Project Completion Report. Duration of his assignment will
be 4 years.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization Chart for Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
| Political Committee for Agriculture & Agrarian Reform   I
Minister of Agriculture                                                                                  C  _  _  _      -  -  -  Adm,ott
Department                Department               Department              Department               Irrigation              Departmentn
Agricutura              Coo           |          MPechaniScral rySenion
General Admin.           Agricultural            State farms             Cooperative               Planning &              Breeding                El Kod                    Ito be                   Personal
and animal                                      farms                    design                   and produc-             and                      formed)                   secretary
Personnel                production              Plant pro-                                                                tion                    others
tection                 Cooperative              Surface                                                                                             Affairs of
Accounts                 Qualification                                   accounts                  water                   Veterinary                                                                 rations
and training                                                                                      services                                                                   rations
Stores Control                                                           Cooperative               Groundwater                                                                                         such as.
Foreign rela-                                   statistics                                        Livestock                                                                 Delta Tuban
tions                                           and planning             Machinery                research                                                                  Development
renting                                                                                            Board
station                  Specialized
construction
Abyan Agric.
Utilization             Planning &                                                                  Development
and conser-              Statistics                                                                 Board
vation of
agricultural                                                                                        PCMFV
lands                                                                                               PFWC
Mechanical
engineering
Composed of Heads of Departments & Permanent Secretary with Minister as Chairman.
Sections report directly to ttse Permanent Secretary. As they develop they will become Departments.
World Bank-17632






APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECW'
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Lahej Agricultural Development Board
(Former Organization)
Minister of
Agriculture
LADB Board
of Directors
General
Manager
Ginnery                       Renting                       Agriculture                    and
Station                                                      Secretariat
Land           |         |Plant Protection  |r                Spate         l                 xtens oio 
Reclamation                and Fertilizing                     Irrigation   l                Services
The Ginnery and the Machinery Renting Stat,on have Managers
The Ginnery Manager is responsible to the General Manager LADB,
and the Manager of the Machinerv Renting Station to the MAAR,
Department of Irrigation and Mechanical Engineering, he
communicates with the LADB Manager so that there is good haison.
VVorld B.ink   17755






APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization Chart for the Delta Tuban Development Board
DTDB BOARD OF DIRECTORS |
_                                   |     ~~~~~~~~~~~~General Manager l
(Expatriate Project Manager)
Irrigation Agronornist
Co-Project Manager
Cotton                         Accts. Section                     Machinery                         Agricultural
Secretariat                        Ginnery                       Accountant Asst.                   Rental Station               F       Section
Spate Irrigation                      Irrigation Works                      Extension Service                     Farm Management
Irrigation Agronormist               Irrigation and Civil Engineer             Extension Director                     FamEgt Spcalist
(Expatriate)                           (Expatriate)                           (Expatriate)                           (xpatriate)
Counterpart                            Counterpart                            Counterpart                            Counterpart
World Bank-17523






ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Marketing of Project Output
1.        The major marketed products whose output will be increased signif-
icantly by the project are cotton, vegetables, tomatoes, watermelon, sorghum
and maize. In addition, there will be significant increases in production of
legume forage, and of byproducts (stover and forage) from sorghum which would
be used in livestock enterprises. The following briefly describes the market
outlook for these products, the local marketing arrangements, and prices
adopted for project evaluation. No marketing problems are foreseen in the
project.
Cotton
2.        For many years the project area produced mainly long staple cotton,
which was processed by a ginnery run by the Lahej Board, and marketed through
the National Company for Foreign Trade (NCFT). Between 1965 and 1975, pro-
duction of unginned cotton from the project area averaged about 3,360 metric
tons per annum, ranging from as little as 234 tons to about 6,350 tons (in
the 1968/69 season). In order to meet the needs of a textile factory estab-
lished in 1975 at Dar Sa'ad (capacity 500 tons lint, equivalent to about 1,400
tons unginned cotton) Government replaced long staple cotton with a medium
staple variety in the spate irrigated areas during 1976. Simultaneously, most
of the cotton formerly grown in perennially irrigated areas was displaced by
the more profitable tomato crop. Government policy is to continue growing
medium staple cotton in the spate areas, and to export any lint over and above
requirements of the domestic textile industry. Although PDRY has exported
cotton seed in the past, this appears to have been dwindling, and it is likely
that much of the seed will be processed in an edible oil and feed production
plant recently established in Aden. Between 1971 and 1976 a total of about
20,000 tons of cotton lint (mainly long staple) was exported from the country,
with annual quantities averaging 4,000 tons but fluctuating quite markedly
because of seasonal carryover. Weighted average f.o.b. prices ranged from
USJ39.6/lb (YD 299.7/ton) in 1971/72 to USJ121.9/lb (YD 923.5/ton) in the
1975/76 season. It is estimated that production of unginned cotton with the
project will increase by about 2,500 tons to reach an average of 4,680 tons
per annum in the project area by 1984. This will yield approximately 1,660
tons of lint and 2,970 tons of cotton seed per annum, or incremental produc-
tion of 890 tons and 1,587 tons respectively. Assuming costs of YD 25/ton
of unginned cotton (to cover transportation, ginning, seed processing and mar-
keting costs), and based on IBRD price projections for medium staple cotton,



ANNEX 11
Page 2
an economic price is derived of YD 194/ton of unginned cotton at the farm gate.
Based on indications of Government policy, the financial price (received by
farmers) is estimated to be YD 100/ton of unginned cotton (Annex 13, Table 2).
Vegetables
3.        A wide variety of vegetables is grown in the project area (Annex 2),
many of which are collected by the Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruits
and Vegetables (PCMFV) and sold through the Corporation's retail outlets in
Aden and other localities. The PCMFV has two receiving stations in the Second
Governorate (one station, with 500 ton capacity, in Lahej itself) and three
selling stations. By the end of 1978 it is planned to have four receiving
stations and five selling stations in the Second Governorate. A total storage
capacity of 5,000 tons exists in Aden, including 1,500 tons of cold storage
capacity. A further 1,000 tons of cold storage capacity is planned for the
1978/79 season. The PCMFV has its own trucks (a fleet of about 70) and
employs a total of about 2,000 persons. Official prices for a large range of
vegetables and fruits were announced in February 1977. In most cases prices
remained unchanged from those of the previous announcement in 1973, but there
were some increases. These latest official prices have been used for valuing
additional project production. For estimating effects of the project, the
vegetable component is assumed to comprise, by percentage of area sown: -
Eggplant 35%, Okra 35%, Onion 15%, Pepper 10% and Sweet Potato 5%. The latest
official prices for these vegetables are (per metric ton) YD 20, YD 40, YD 50,
YD 200 and YD 80 respectively. An average price (weighted by percentage of
area grown and by yield) is adopted of YD 44.7/ton for vegetables. It is
estimated that an additional 9,000 tons of these vegetables will result from
the project, bringing production in the project area by 1984 to about 10,800
tons per annum. The canning of some vegetables in the tomato paste factory
is under study as a possible future extension of the factory's capability,
and there is some potential for sale of fresh vegetables to ships bunkering
in Aden harbor.
4.        There will also be an expansion of output of watermelon under the
project, estimated at about 6,940 tons, bringing total output in the project
area up to about 11,700 tons. A price of YD 15/ton is adopted for analysis.
Tomatoes
5.        During 1976, most of the areas in the state farms previously planted
to cotton were switched to production of tomatoes for the newly established
paste factory at Fiyush, about 17 km south east of Lahej and 6 km from the
main highway. When visited in April 1977, the factory was achieving about two
thirds of its capacity to handle 120 tons of tomatoes per day. With a staff
numbering about 180 persons, the factory processed approximately 4,000 tons
of tomatoes in the 1975/76 season, producing 4.76 million cans (each 150 gns)



ANNEX 11
Page 3
of 28%-30% double concentration paste which retail at YD 0.165 per can.
During the 1976/77 season up to April 21, 1977 the factory had received 7,128
tons of tomatoes and produced 6.07 million cans (each of 150 gms) together
with 788,000 cans (each of 450 gms). On average about 5.6 tons of tomatoes
were used to produce 1 ton of paste, although somewhat less tomatoes are
needed at the beginning of the season and somewhat more towards the end.
There is considerable scope for increasing the efficiency of the factory, and
it is also envisaged that some canning of vegetables will be attempted. For
economic analysis, a price of YD 35/ton has been adopted. It is estimated
that under the project, production of tomatoes will increase from the present
12,000 tons to about 17,550 tons, an increase over six years of 5,550 tons.
Cereals
6.        During the three year period 1974 to 1976 more than 90,000 tons of
cereals per year (including more than 5,000 tons of millet) have flowed into
the country, either as imports or as commodity assistance of the United
Nations (Table 2). This is approximately equal to annual cereal production
in the country. In addition, between 16,000 tons and 35,000 tons of wheat
flour have been imported or donated each year (Table 2). Clearly, increases
in domestic cereal production within the range envisaged in the project will
be easily absorbed within the country, substituting for imports. It is esti-
mated that an additional 1,600 tons of sorghum grain and 2,200 tons of maize
will be forthcoming from the project, bringing total production of these in
the project area to about 3,200 tons and 2,300 tons per annum respectively
by 1984. Cereals are acquired and marketed by the National Company for Home
Trade. Six silos were recently erected south of Lahej. The official 1977
price for sorghum and maize is set at YD 75/ton, and this has been adopted
for financial analysis in the project. Based on IBRD projections for the
two cereals, prices of YD 43/ton and YD 49/ton for economic analysis are
adopted for sorghum and maize respectively.
Sesame
7.        Over the past several years the country has been importing around
US$2 million worth of sesame seeds per annum (Table 1) and in addition, con-
siderable quantities of vegetable oils for cooking and other purposes have
been imported or donated (Table 2). It is estimated that the project will
raise production of sesame seeds by about 173 tons which will be readily
absorbed domestically, and probably processed in the edible oil and feed
production plant in Aden. Total production in the project area will rise
to about 273 tons by 1984. The official price of YD 175/ton has been adopted
for financial analysis, and a price of YD 140/ton for economic analysis, based
on the IBRD projections for Soybeans and various assumptions about comparative
extraction rates of oil and meal of the two commodities.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Forages
8.        The stover which is a byproduct of sorghum grain production in the
project area is an important feed for livestock. In addition, sorghum is
grown specifically for forage, with the whole plant being cut up for use as
green or semi-dried livestock feed. The latter is used mainly by the pro-
ducers themselves, to feed their own animals. For stover, however, there is
a developed system of trade among farmers, and between cooperatives and state
farms. One cooperative visited sold approximately one third of its output of
stover to state farms. Under the project, stover and forage production will
increase as output of sorghum and maize expanded. In addition, on state farms
engaging in livestock production (Jawala - dairying, Fiyush - sheep and goats,
and El Jarrad - beef fattening), the project will include areas of sorghum
and legumes specifically for forage. It is estimated that additional output
from the project will be approximately 8,800 tons of sorghum and maize stover,
33,400 tons (green matter) of sorghum forage, and 9,700 tons of legume forage.
The official price for stover is a little more than YD 4/ton, although there
was an indication that prices higher than this were being realized in private
trading between farmers. Prices adopted for analysis are YD 4/ton for stover,
YD 3/ton for sorghum forage and YD 7/ton for legume storage. Total output of
these products in the project area is estimated to reach 18,500 tons, 51,000
tons and 9,900 tons respectively by 1984.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PDRY-Selected Agricultural Imports and Exports 2
(uS$ millions)
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976
IMPORTS
Rice                          3.30     7.00    16.90    13.60        na
Wheat and Wheat Flour         5.00    10.30    21.00    10.50        na
Live Animals                  2.70     2.30      1.60     2.40       na
Ghee                          2.10     2.30      5.20     5.60       na
Sesame seeds                  2.10     2.40      3.70     1.90       na
Animal and Vegetable Oils   0.80       1.00      2.60     2.00       na
Refined Sugar                6.70      7.80    12.40    13.80        na
UN COMMODITY ASSISTANCE'-
Rice                           -        -        0.03     1.82      2.30
Wheat                          -        -         -       1.00      2.11
Wheat Flour                   0.18     0.33      1.82     2.28      1.18
Pulses                         -        -        O.o6     0.14      o.o8
Butter Oil                    0.05     0.01      0.05     0.10      0.10
Vegetable Oils                o.o4     o.o6      0.12     0.31      0.24
Sugar                         --                  -        .01      0.03
Powdered Milk                0.03      0.04      0.07     0.09      0.17
Cheese                       0.01      0.05     o.o6       -        _
EXPORTS
Cotton                       3.14      8.14     1.42      8.57     7.22
/1  na   not available;  -   nil or negligible.
/2 UN assistance in 1976 valued at 1975 prices.
Sources: Central Statistical Office; UNDP Office; NCFT Cotton
Marketing Section; mission estimates.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PDRY - Imports of Foodstuff Items
(metric tons)
1974          1975           1976
IMPORTS
Rice                      49,300        26,000         29,720
Wheat                     46,ooo        50,250          52,800
Wheat Flour               27,500          3,000        21,000
Millets                     7,000         5,000          5,000
Cooking Oil                2,000         1,200          2,500
Sugar                     22,000        18,000         21,500
UN COMMODITY ASSISTANCE
Rice                           61        4,546          6,082
Wheat                         -           4,568         1,860
Wheat Flour                 7,282       13,112          4,738
Pulses                        255           598            335
Vegetable Oils                181          680             538
Sugar                           5            20             67
Dried Fruits                  135           102            270
Sources: NCFT; UNDP Office.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Models and Farm Incomes
1.        The project area is divided into seven cooperatives and twelve state
farms. The cooperatives include about 7,000 farm families, and the state farms
employ approximately 2,600 workers. The average family size is estimated to
be 5.1 persons. Data from the cooperatives indicate that the average cultiv-
able area per member is 1.09 hectares. The area actually cultivated varies
from year to year, depending on available flow in the Wadi for spate irriga-
tion, and it is likely to be less than 1 hectare per family in drought years.
The variation in farm size is not great in cooperatives. 1/ Most farmers have
a small number of livestock. The state farms average 175 hectares in size,
but seven of the twelve have areas of 170 hectares or more. Commercial dairy-
ing, sheep fattening and beef fattening operations are being developed on
three of these farms.
2.        Farm Model 1 (Tables 1 and 4), of one hectare, represents an average
farm in the spate-irrigated area of the project. The farm modelled here is
assumed to be growing 0.60 ha of Cotton (medium staple variety), 0.22 ha of
Red Sorghum, 0.08 ha of White Sorghum, 0.05 ha of Watermelon, and 0.05 ha of
Sesame. Livestock are fed mainly on stover and green forage from the Sorghum
crops, and the values of these feed materials are assumed to be equal to
prices established for them in the project area. All labor for the farm is
supplied by the operator and family. Without the project, most of the Sorghum
grain is retained for domestic use, while Cotton, Watermelon and Sesame are
cash crops. A portion of the stover is sold to state farms producing live-
stock. Cultivation is performed partly by bullocks, partly by tractors with-
out the project, and with the project entirely by machines. Tractors and
implerments are currently hired out by the MRS at prices considerably below
costs of operation and maintenance. Under the project, the MRS will raise
charges to recover operation and maintenance, and charges in line with this
policy have been included here. Fertilizers have been priced at currently
estimated landed cost (including transport to the project area), on the
assumption that Government will recover fully the costs of procurement of
fertilizers and chemicals. Labor has been included at YD 0.550 per day, but
since all of this will be family labor on the I hectare farm, this will not
represent a cash outflow for the farm family. It is assumed that short-term
credit is advanced by the NBY to cover the costs of cultivation, seeds, fer-
tilizers and chemicals, with an interest rate of 6F per annum- Water charges
1 /   Tn one major cooperative with 950 farmer members the largest farm was
Lepoa-ted to be 2 hectares.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
are levied currently by the LADB at rates of YD 0.500 per acre for forage and
YD 1.000 per acre for melons and vegetables. As can be seen from the model,
there is very limited scope for raising these charges for a small farm, espe-
pecially in view of the fact that taxation is already rather high. The Gov-
ernment levies taxes of 15% of the gross value of cotton and cereals. In
addition, there is a 5% overall tax whose proceeds are used to meet adminis-
trative expenses of the cooperative. After taxes and levies, the net income
of this 1 hectare farm will rise from about YD 51 (US$148) to YD 84 (US$242)
with the project. For an average family of 5.1 members this will represent
an increase in per capita income from YD 10 (US$29) to Y-D 16 (US$48). In
practice, for a individual farm under the project, income will probably rise
at a faster rate than depicted here, since the average phasing for the whole
project area has been used in the model.
3.        The second model (Table 2) represents a 200 hectare state farm
whose cropping pattern with the project will include Sorghum and Legume
Forage, Maize, Watermelons, Tomato and a variety of Vegetables. The live-
stock feeds have been valued at prices established for them in the project
area. It is assumed that the farm purchases a package of machinery consist-
ing of two tractors, cultivation and land levelling equipment and harvesting
equipment to deal with forages and crop residues. These will add to machinery
already used on the farm. For this purpose a loan of YD 20,800 would be taken
from the NBY for a term of 6 years at an interest rate of 5-1/2% per annum.
Short-term credit at 6% per annum will again cover costs of cultivation, seed,
fertilizers and chemicals. Irrigation water is charged at rates which will
allow full recovery of operation and maintenance costs of the pumping and
distribution system. The cost recovery index for all on-farm irrigation and
machinery investments is 56%, after allowing for a projected annual 6% infla-
tion rate during the repayment period. The state farms' incentives include,
besides the operating surpluses, a 20% allowance for management and risk on
net farm income and a 10% return on owned capital. Labor is costed at YD
0.700 per day, the current wage for hired labor of this type on the state
farms. After meeting all charges, the operating surplus on the farm will
rise from about YD 20,900 (US$60,610) to YD 82,800 (US$240,120). From 1978
it is intended that about 75% of surpluses such as this should go into general
Government funds, and 25% should be retained in the farm's bank account.
GUveL1IIUCflL plans are to ads-tribute turther the 2G%J share as follows:  10X
directly paid to farm workers and 15% for a replenishment fund within the
individual state farm.
4.        For the project area as a whole, the following production increases
are estimated (Table 3 presents total flows);



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Item                                        Incremental Output
---- metric tons---
Cotton (medium staple) (unginned)                              2,510
Grains  -  Sorghum                                             1,608
- Maize                                               2,200
Stover  -  Sorghum                                             3,825
- Maize                                               4,975
Forages -  Sorghum                                            33,400
- Legumes                                             9,720
Sesame                                                           173
Watermelons                                                    6,940
Tomato                                                         5,550
Vegetables                                                     9,000
Mango                                                          2,710



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I'ROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Model 1 (1 ha) - Income and Expenditure Flows
(Amounts in YD)
Without       ---------           Development Years ---
Project       1          2          3         4                     0 o-
Inflow                                  /
Gross Value of Production-Subs;stence-           26.0       26.0       26.0       26.0       26.0       26.0      26.0
-CashL2                56.2      67.3       78.1       90.7      103.3      107.0      116.9
SubtotaL                                 82.2      93.3      104.1      116.7      129.3      133.0      142.9
Short-term Credit                                12.5       16.2       19.8       23.5       27.2      27.2       27.2
Total Inflow                                     94.7      109.5      123.9      140.2      156        160.2     170.1
Outflow
Cultivation                                       7.7        8.3        8.9        9.5       10.1      10.1       10.1
Seeds                                             3.4        3.4        343        3.3        3.2        3.2        3.2
Fertilizer                                         -         1.4        2.8        4.2        5.6        5.6
Chemicals                                         1.4        3.1        4.8        6.5        8.3        8.3        8.3
Subtotal                                 12.5      16.2       19.8       23.5       27.2       27.2       27.2
Other Crop Expenses                               3.5        4.0        4.6        5.1        5.7        5.9        6.2
Shcrt-term Credit - Interest                      0.8        1.0        1.2        1.4        1.6        1.6        1.6
- Principal                   12.5       16.2      19.8       23.5       27.2       27.2       27.2
Water -harges                                     0.8        o.8        o.8        C.8        o.8        0.8        0.8
Labor 4                                          36.7       39.8       42.9       46.1       49.2       50.5       51.9
Balance                                          27.9       31.5       34.8       39.8       44.8       47.0       55.2
Total Outflow                                    94.7      109.5      123.9      140.2      156.5      160.2      170.1
Net income
Cash Production (Net)                            38.6       45.3       51.7       59.9       68.0       71.5       81.1
Subsistence Procuct ion                          26.0       26.0       26.0       26.0       26.0       26.o       26 .0
.ess Taxes/-                            13.4       15.2       17.0       19.1       21.2       21.8       23.5
Net Income                                       51.2       ____       6C.     7 6   8_      72__        7>7       83.6
/1 Approx. 270 kgs. sorghum grain, plus stover and forage for livestock.
/2 Cotton, watermelon and sesame, plus a portion of sorghum stover and forage.
/3  Machinery charges set to cover operation and maintenance expenses.  Pull charges would be approx. 50%
higher than this.
/4  Family labor valued at YD 0.550 per day.
,/5 15% gross value of cotton and cereals, 7ilus 5% co-op fee on gross output.                                            U Z
F-. r



APPRAISAL OF
'WADI TUTBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEYED
Farm Model 2 (200 ha) - Income and Expenditure Flows
(Amounts in YD thousand)
Without       ------------------------------- Development Years ------------------------------
Project      1           2           3          4            5         6           7           8-
Inflow
Gross Value of Production          65.8      84.7       101.2       120.1      139.1       147.7       156.4       156.4       156.4
Short-Termi Credit                  6.6        8.4       10.2        12.0       14.0        14.4        14.8        14.8        14.8
Medium-Term Credit                  -        20. 8        -           -           -          -           -           -
Total Inflow               72.4      113.9       111.4      132.1       153.1       162.1       171.2      171.2       171.2
Outflow
Cultivation/Li                      2.5       3.0         3.5         4.0         4.6        4.6         4.6         4.6         4.6
Seeds                               1.2       1.4         1.6         1.7         1.9        1.9         1.9         1.9         1.9
Fertilizer                          0.6       1.5         2.4         3.4         4.3        4.7          5.1        5.1         5.1
Chemicals                           2.3       2.5         2.7         2.9         3.2         3.2        3.2         3.2         3.2
Subtotal                    76.        8.4        10.2       12.0        14.0       _17T         148         14.8
Other Crop Expenses                 3.8        5.5        7.2         8.9        10.6       11.3        12.0        12.0        12.0
Short-Term Credit - Interest        0.4       0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.9        0.9         0.9         0.9
- Principal      6.6       8.4        10.2        12.0       14.0        14.4        14.8        14.8        14.8
Medium-Term Credit - Interest       -          1.1        1.0         0.8         o.6         0.4        0.2         _           _
- Principal    -          -           3.5         3.5        3.5         3.5         3.4         3.4         -
Investment in Machinery                      20.8
Water iharges/2                    20.1       21.8        23.6       25.3        27.1        27.1        27.1        27.1       27.1
Labor-                             14.0      14.9        15.9        16.8        17.8       18.3        18.8        18,8        18.8
Balance-                           20.9       32.5       39.2        52.1        64.7        71.8        79.2        79.4       82.8
Total Outflow              72.4      113.9                  132.1       153.1       162.1       171.2       171.2       171.2
/1 Machinery charges setto recover full costs of depreciation, operation and maintenance.
/2 Water charges set to recover full costs of operating and maintaining the pumping and distribution system.
/3  Labor valued at YD 0.700 per day.
/4  Government would retain its desired level of taxation from this balance, as well as recovering the full investment costs                    F t
of irrigation improvements over 20 years with interest, which could, for this 200 ha farm, imply an annual charge of
YD 17,000 with the project.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Project Area - Estimates of Output and Input Flows
Without       ----------------------- Project Years ---------------------------
Project      1          2          3          4          5         6
Outputs (metric tons)
Cotton (medium staple, unginned)   2,170        2,400     2,970      3,600      4,290      4,290     4,680          4,680
Sorghum grain                        1,590      1,770     1,804      2,280      2,808      3,003      3,198         3,198
Maize grain                             75        300        900     1,442      2,145      2,145      2,275         2,275
Sorghum - stover                     9,500    10,208      9,625    11,4oo    12,350    13,325    13,325            13,325
- forage                   17,500    22-,943    31,100    36,030    41,6oo    47,475    50,900            50,900
Maize stover                           225        825     2,438      3,605      5,200      5,200     5,200          5,200
Legume forage                          180      2,000     4,250      6,650      9,000      9,450     9,900          9,900
Sesame                                 100       112        145        181        234        253       273            273
Watermelon                           4,750      5,4oo     6,740      8,280    10,180    10,930    11,690          11,690
Tomato                              12,000    13,342    14,824    16,422    17,075    16,600    17,658            17,550
Veget fles                           1,80O     2,100      3,910      6,200      9,200    10,000    10,800         10,800
MangoL-                                44o        4oo       280        -          -         -          315            735
Inputs
Fertilizers - Urea                      78       259        439        618        788       834        882            880
(metric tons) - Amm. Sulphate           -        100        199        297       388        386        385           385
- T.S.P.                 -          90       177        264        340        337        335           335
Labor (thousand days)                  532       612        691        769        843       850        857           859
/1  Mango output woLld first decline, as old trees are replaced with new seedlings.  Production from the new trees
would reach its full level of about 3,150 tons by Year 14.
PI .
oi N
It4 



AiNEX 1^
Table 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Model 1:   Rent and Cost Recovery Indices /
(Incremental discounted values in constant 1977 YD)
YD
1.   Gross value of production  b ............              ....................... 455.2
2.   Cash production costs /c . ....................................... 147.2
3. Net income ............................................... 308.0
4.      Depreciation and return on own capital  ......                 ................  16.1
5.      Imputed value of family labor /d ........                .................... 114.3
6.      Allowance for management and risk Ie ......                 ..................  35.6
7.      General taxes /f ............................................    51.0
8.  Rent .  .             ...............................................  91.0
9.  Rent as a percent of net income (8:3) ................ .........  29.5
10.  Machinery charges  ..............................................    19.1
11.   Rent recovery index [(10+7):(8+7)]  /  .......                ...................  49.4
12.   Public sector outlays  (capital + O.M.)  .......               ..................  64.3
13.   Cost recovery index [(10+7):(12+7)]  /g  .......               ..................  60.8
14.   Estimated critical comsumption level Ih ......                  ..................  36.6
15.   Estimated per capita income in the project
area at full development /h ..........              .......................  16.5
16. Estimated national per capita income at
full development /h . ......................................... 135.8
Source: Annex 12, Table 1
November 16, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 4
Page 2
FOOTNOTES
/a All values in lines 1-13 discounted at 10% p.a.; all values
in lines 1-12 represent the repayment period of years 1-20.
/b Includes on-farm consumption (see Annex 12, Table 1, footnote 1).
/c Excludes machine rental charges (see item 10), includes water
charges of YD 0.8/p.a., and includes 5% co-op fee on gross output.
/d Imputed at prevailing wage rates.
/e Imputed at 20% of net income minus charges for depreciation,
return on capital and labor.
/f 15% on gross value of cotton and cereals.
/g On a gross basis.
/h Year 6 or 1983. Items 14 and 16 assumed to increase in real
terms by 5% p.a.



ANNEX 12
Table 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Model 2 (200 ha):   Rent and Cost Recovery Indices /
(Incremental discounted values in constant 1977 YD thousands)
YD
1.  Gross value of production .......              .................... 677.6
2.  Cash production costs /b .......              ..................... 186.2
3.  Net income .        ........................................ 491.4
4.      Depreciation and return on own capital /c .... .... 208.8
5.      Allowance for management and risk Id ....              .........  56.6
6.      General taxes /e .........           ........................   0
7.  Rent ................................................  226.0
8.  Rent as a percent of net income (7:3)  .....              ..........  46.0
9.  Water charges  .............          ..........................  55.6
10.  Recovery of irrigation improvements /f ....               ..........  95.7
11.  Total direct charges ........             ........................ 151.3
12.  Rent recovery index (11:7)  ......              ....................  67.0
13.  Public sector outlays  ........            ....................... 272.1
Investment  .............        .......................... 190.3
O&M machinery ..........          ..........................  26 2
O&M irrigation ..........          .........................  55.6
14.   Cost recovery index (11:13)  ......             ...................  56.0
Source: Annex 12, Table 2
November 16, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 5
Page 2
FOOTNOTES
/a All values in lines 1-14 discounted at 10% p.a.; all values
in lines 1-13 represent the repayment period of years 1-20.
/b Includes cash expenditures on labor employed in the state
farm (groundwater irrigation).
/c Imputed at 10% return on own capital.
/d Imputed at 20% on net income after depreciation and return
on capital.
/e No allowance for general taxes in state farms.
/f Assuming 6% inflation rate.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Economic Rates of Return
1.        Economic rates of return for the project as a whole, and for several
of its components, were calculated on the basis of data displayed in Table 1.
The following assumptions underlie these calculations:
(a) the rate of exchange is YD 1.000=US$2.90;
(b) agricultural labor is priced at YD 0.700 per manday, equal
to the current daily wage for laborers on state farms;
(c) project costs include physical contingency allowances as
outlined in Annex 8, Table 7;
(d) prices for economic analysis (Table 2) are at the farmgate,
based where possible on IBRD projections;
(e) as far as possible, transfer payments have been eliminated;
(f) no allowance is made for benefits of the infrastructural
elements of feeder roads or water supply, or of the water
study included in the project;
(g) additions to areas irrigated by spate methods are excluded.
Through a program of land levelling and irrigation works
being carried out under bilateral aid, it is estimated that
improved water use will allow an expansion of the average
area irrigated by spate methods from the current 5,000 ha to
about 6,500 ha each year (see para 3.10). This expanded area
has been assumed for all projections elsewhere in this report.
For economic analysis, however, the spate irrigated area is
maintained at 5,000 ha, with incremental project benefits
arising from increased productivity in this area; and
(h) project life is 35 years.
2.        Based on these assumptions, economic rates of return are estimated
to be as follows:
(a)  Project as a whole                                        24%
(b) Project without infrastructure (roads and water
water supply) and without the water study                  27%



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(c)  Spate irrigated area alone                                 52%
(d)  Perennially irrigated area alone                           22%
(e)  Orchard (mango) development alone                          29%
3.        Sensitivity of the above results was tested as follows:
Assumption 1: Project as in (a) above, with all benefits attributed
to livestock feeds excluded from the benefit stream.
Assumption 2: Project excluding infrastructure as in (b) above, but
with the benefit stream deferred by one year.
Assumption 3: Project excluding infrastructure as in (b) above but
with the benefit stream reduced by 20% simultaneously with an in-
crease of 20% in the cost stream. This would be a more severe blow
to the economic rate of return than the following four events happen-
ing simultaneously: cotton price decreased by 30%, tomato price
decreased by 43%, vegetables prices decreased by 33%, and fertilizer
prices increased by 170%. It is unlikely that such a combination
of events would take place.
Assumption 4: For the perennially irrigated area alone, with the
benefit stream decreased by 25%. This would be equivalent to assum-
ing a 20% shortfall in expected yields of tomato and vegetables, or
it would be more severe than assuming no incremental benefits from
livestock feeds.
Assumption 5: For the perennially irrigated area alone, with the
benefit stream decreased by 40%. This would be equivalent to
assuming no incremental benefits from livestock feeds, and a 20%
shortfall in expected yields of tomato and vegetables.
Assumption 6: As for Assumption 5, except that the cost stream
is also increased equivalent to a rise in fertilizer prices of
170%. This would be a very unlikely combination of events.
4.        The sensitivity analysis resulted in economic rates of return as
follows:
Assumption 1 (whole project)                        19%
Assumption 2 (whole project)                        20%
Assumption 3 (whole project)                        12%
Assumption 4 (perennial area alone)                 13%
Assumption 5 (perennial area alone)                  8%
Assumption 6 (perennial area alone)                  4%



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Economic Rate of Return
(Amounts in YD thousand)
------------------------ Project Years --------------------------
1        2         3         4        5         6         7        8-
Incremental Economic Benefits
1. Cotton                    45     104       162        219      219       278       278      278
2. Sorghum grain              8       2        14         21      32        37        37        37
3. Maize grain              11       40        67        :01      101       108       108      108
4. Stover and forages        34      74       110       147       171       182       182      182
5. Sesame                     2       4         7        12        13        15        15       15
6. Watermelon               10       25        43         65       76        87        87       87
7. Tomato                    47      99       155        178      161       198       194      194
8. Vegetables               13       9)!      197        331      366       402       402      402
9. Mango./                   (4)    (46 (44)             (44)     (44)      (13)       30        82
Total Tncremental Economic-
Benefits                    166      426      711  1. 033    1,095          24    1,333    1385
Project Investments
1. Irrigation Improvement 569       555       200       200        -         -         -        -
2. Fertilizers & chemicals  69       34        34         32       -                   _        _
3. Agricultural machinery 135       202        -          -        _
4. Orchard & shelterbelts  12        12        12          3       -         -         _        _
5. Project Management      142      122       122       102        -         -         -        -
6. Water Supply              14      47        18         18       -         -         -        -
7. Feeder Roads              -       26        27         27       -         -         _        _
8. Water Study              51      138        51        -         -         -         _        _
9. C'ontingencies(physical)106      134        70         57       -         -         _        _
Total Project Investments li098   1,270         534        439
Incremental Operating Costs
1. On project invest,nl: tS   4      47        67         88      120       124       126      128
2. On farms                  63     183       262        330      375       390       391       396
Total Incremental Operating
Costs                       67      230       329        418      495       514       517       524
Total Incremental Cost:;   L,!L    1 ,500       863        857       495      514       517       524
/1  Incremental benefits f'r'm r4angc rise to YD 271,000 by year  14.



ANNEX 13
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs
Price for Financial    Price for Economic
Analysis                Analysis
Item                 Unit           YD              US$      YD            US$
Cotton (M.S.-unginned)   metric ton         100             290      194            563
Sorghum                        "             75             218       43            125
Maize                                        75             218       49            142
Sesame                                      175             507      14o            406
Watermelon                     "             15              43       15             43
Tomato                                       35             101       35            101
Eggplant                                     20              58       20             58
Okra                                         40             116       40            116
Onion (red)                                  50             145       50            145
Pepper (red)                                200             580      200            580
Sweet Potato                                 80             232       80            232
Banana                                       30              87       30             87
Mango                                       100             290      100            290
Crop Stover                                   4              12        4             12
Sorghum Forage                                3               9        3              9
Legume Forage                                 7              20        7             20
Farm Labor                    day         0.55-0.70       1.60-2,0-3 0.7          2.03
Fertilizers
Urea (46:0:0)             metric ton         65             188       66           191
Ammonium Sulphate (21:0:0)   "               35             101      33             96
Triple Super phosphate(0:46:0)"              54             157       56           162
Machine Operations
Plough (moldboard)             ha           5.6            16.2     8.4           24.4
Cultivate                      "i           o.6             1.7     1.0            2.9
Border Disc                    it           0.3             0.9     o.6            1.7
Ridge                          "            0.7             2.0     1.0            2.9
Drill Seed                     "            3.0             8.7     5.0           14.5
Fertilizer Application         it           0.2             o.6     0.3            0.9
Forage Harvesting             t"            5.2           15.1      9.6           27.8
Mowing and Baling              "           13.9            40.3    21.8           63.2



APPRAISAL OF
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Implementation Schedule
IDA fisl Ye             1978       |                1919                                 1980                                  1981                                  1982
Calendar Year                   1978                                 1919                                 1980                                   1981                                  1982
IRtRIGATlON IMPROVEMENT
Water Distribution, Works
Co srr.oction                                         _                  - _      =
feplachvi and Electrifying Pun_                                                                                       .
Procr.emen.
Insiadllalion                                                                                  _
Ldno ,norovemenl Works
E,4.lnent Procurement
Lanld 1, rOVaMrnent                                                                                                                                                  -  _     
AGRICULTURE 1. iPROVEMENT
Ferilizern, and 11,nCtIcides
Procurement
Distribulion                                                   -              _      - m  m_ m            -  m                                       _ --  m  mm   mm
Machtne. y Procurement
Peenranen, Crop---  
RURAL INFRASTRHlCTURE
Feeder Roacl1                                                                               -         -        -        -                                             _
Water Supply
Procurement
Co. sir,, lon                                           _                                                                      -                      -              -        -
MANAGtFMt rT SUPPOFiT
INATER MANAGEMENT STUDY
iuds and Awarj
Study und Report
Legend
_  _m _  _Intermiutter, Acti,,dvY
Worll iuu,k - 17904






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
0.   4S0                                                        WADI TUBAN
tX     7-. /r>9 89 <'=--42AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'ARui     ,  ''' < <v " '  - ~ S                                                           State Farms with Groundwater Irrigation
WER~         ji.\\   \ Q ' t   .- -   '                                                           HTo be Supplied with Now Irrigation Works
Mm5                     Mm                                   'I4CC   No New Irrigation Works to be Supplied
&2JI                        75                                                    A     Cooperative Form Centers
300  -  -          3                                                  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-.Ic   Villages to be Provided with Water SuPPlY
9 :  _  -Pr rposed Water Mains
-                                                                               0 Eixsting Water Mains
------.Proposed Overhead Electricity Transmission Liones
-27~                                                                                                 Foisting Overhead Electricity Transmission Lines
6 ; s>S - - ), 2 .                     -Roads to be Constructed
-!3< _______  Eisting Surfaced Roads
'r                                                             CD) c\b   Bir Ahmed Water Works
- 7S0 - -'               -                       Foi-'" -    E x ist   ng   D iversion     W eirs
'N                       ,,--                            ,,,,i++- Bir Nasir Well Field
U    Tomato Paste Factory
-' 5 -                                                                                    C~~   <fJ t0 Cit es, Towns and Villages
fttekvt    ~     arovo'                                            Contours in Meters
-.0              2                                            20    5   2   3   4   5   6   7   a   9   to
KILOMETERS
~   vyen       rtThet1r
Nt-~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
261 SE    E          Aftwr'-
\   '    PdU         A                          Hq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frA :nD t
h~~~~~
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FYS A D tA _
. -                      mu                                    rts o\AN FARMS
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3r-~  FT SESINdAR
'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
untuums1s h<*n.n1lns .>ns:    )DAR SAD
hl14r x  Afiuc     ,-~Ahme                                                                                            SHEIKH OTH AN
T A     U D I   hR  A a I       -         \OMA N                     Ahd e
}< .._.,, / ) ~~E  O P L E S ,  h
XJ   EN> //DEMOCRAIC                                                     \                                                \J
OR A MENREPU   LIC
ARA9 2                  C):>         F Y E M E Nl;t<t,<+ 
-:\    <->tre     ,~- .   G U   LF                                                                              -,~                                       C /SQ
7 zz , ms tr- --- G F             A  D      -N



