Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2154a-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
WADI TUBAN
February 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$ 1                   =           YD 0.345
YD  1                   =           US$ 2.90
YD  1,000               =           US$ 2,900.00
YD  1,000,000           =           US$ 2,900,000.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF    -     Agricultural Development Fund
DTDB   -     Delta Tuban Development Board
MAAR   -     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MRS    -     Machinery Renting Station
NBY    -     National Bank of Yemen
NCFT   -     National Company for Foreign Trade
NCHT   -     National Company for Home Trade
NMC    -     National Meat Corporation
PCMFV  -     Public Corporation for Marketing of
Fruits and Vegetables
PWC    -     Public Water Corporation
PWD    -     Public Works Department
PDRY   -     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Beneficiaries:      Delta Tuban Development Board (DTDB) and the
National Bank of Yemen (NBY)
Amount:              US$5.2 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would on lend US$1.9 million of the proceeds
of the credit to NBY at an interest rate of not less than
3 percent per annum, repayable over a period of 12 years
including two years grace, to be used for subloans to
agricultural organizations in the project area. The
balance of the credit would be disbursed as direct project
expenditures.
Project             The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and
Description:        raise agricultural production and farm income in Wadi
Tuban through the use of modern inputs and improved cul-
tural practices. It provides for credit to cooperative
and state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village
water supply scheme and improved irrigation system; a
water management study; an agricultural policies study;
and technical assistance and training. The principal
beneficiaries would be 7,000 cooperative farm families
(36,000 persons) whose present income is well below the
poverty level; the project would help to increase their
income by about 63 percent in six years. The project
faces no special risks although delays in recruiting the
expatriate experts to assist in implementing the project
would result in a postponement of the benefits to a period
later than envisaged. Institution building objectives
would be achieved through technical assistance comprising
management support to the implementing agency and training
of its staff.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ Thousands
Local    Foreign    Total
A.   Irrigation Improvement                        966      3,454      4,420
B.   Fertilizer and Insecticides                    49        441        490
C.   Agricultural Equipment                         -         977        977
D.   Orchard and Shelterbelts                      116         -         116
E.   Water Supply and Feeder 'Roads                232        284        516
F.   Agricultural Policies and Water Studies    58            813        871
G.   Technical Assistance and Training             331      1,162      1,493
H.   Physical Contingencies                        249        815      1,064
I.   Price Contingencies                           620      1,687      2,307
Total                                      2,621      9,633    12,254
Financing Plan:
US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local       Foreign
Currency    Currency    Total
IDA proposed                                     200        5,000       5,200
Ot:her external source(s)                      1,500        4,600       6,100
Government                                     1,000       _            1,000
Total                                      2,700        9,600      12,300
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Thousands
IDA FY      1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual                                 150   1,300   1,925       825   1,000
Cumulative                             150   1,450   3,375   4,200   5,200
Rate of Return:       24 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1727a-YDR dated January 25, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT IN WADI TUBAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$5.2 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), to help finance an agricul-
tural project in Wadi Tuban. An amount of US$1.9 million from the proceeds
of the credit would be on lent to the National Bank of Yemen at an interest
rate of not less than 3 percent per annum repayable over a period of 12 years,
including two years grace, to be used for subloans to agricultural organiza-
tions in the project area. The Government of PDRY is exploring with other
external sources the provision of US$6.1 million towards the cost of the
project under parallel financing arrangements.
PART I - ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (1231a-YDR) dated October
11, 1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 29, 1976.
An updating mission visited the country in October 1977 and its findings are
reflected below. The next economic mission to PDRY is scheduled for February
1978. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        PDRY became independent in 1967.  Establishing effective government
administration, particularly in the outlying regions where central authority
had traditionally been weak, and reviving a severely depressed economy became
principal objectives of the new regime in the short term. The sudden loss of
expatriate administrators, the termination of British budgetary support and
the closure of the Suez Canal, made these tasks extremely difficult. As the
Government succeeded in overcoming the immediate problems of administration
and economic consolidation, it set out to broaden its economic and social
objectives aimed at diversifying the narrow base of the economy, strengthening
the national cohesion of a traditional tribal society, satisfying basic needs
of the population, and achieving a more equitable distribution of income.
4.        The Government decided to achieve its objectives through increasingly
comprehensive economic and social planning. This approach was supported by
major structural and institutional reforms, the key element of which was the
establishment of a strong and effective public sector. The reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service sector in and around Aden (banking, insurance,
shipping, trading) under government control. Subsequent investment in manufac-
turing, power and mineral exploration has given the public sector a dominant
influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in



- 2 -
1968 and 1970 respectively have ftndamentally changed the land tenure condi-
tions. Sharecropping and absenteeism of privileged landowners, which had been
the main features of the area's traditional feudal system, were abolished and
individual ownership of land was limited to a maximum of 8 ha in irrigated and
16 ha in rainfed areas. Simultaneously, new farm organizations - production
cooperatives and state farms - were created to facilitate the introduction of
modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
5.        Private enterprises weret allowed to exist, mainly in trade, handi-
craft and to some extent in manufaLcturing. But the private sector was given
a subsidiary role and private entrepreneurs were expected to follow the lead
of the public sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is
encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of
joint ventures are now active. Fcireign private investors have been encouraged
to participate in oil and mineral exploration.
6.        In 1971 the Government launched its first development plan, covering
the three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The strategy of that plan reflected
the priorities spelled out above by focussing on (a) employment creation
through a major public spending program; (b) diversification of the economic
structure by investing in the commodity producing sectors, i.e. agriculture,
fishing and industry; (c) strengthening the country's national and economic
cohesion through establishing a basic road network; (d) providing urgently
needed education and health services to all population groups; and (e) redress-
ing a skewed income distribution by improving the living conditions of the
rural and urban poor while at the same time rigorously limiting higher incomes.
The current Five-Year Plan (1974-1978) pursues similar objectives as the first
plan, giving even greater emphasis to investment in agriculture, industry and
the social sectors.
7.        In pursuing its development objectives the Government faces formid-
able constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortage of foreign exchange, and insufficient technical and managerial skills.
A harsh climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for indus-
trial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography
which creates severe difficulties for internal communications resulting in
increased domestic transport cost. Returns on investment will therefore not
come easily and will require considerable effort and human skills.
8.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
Before independence, the country depended largely on expatriate technicians
and managers most of whom left after independence. The Government has tried
to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition, again with foreign
assistance (including IDA), a large education and training program was launched
and in recent years has become increasingly technically oriented. Supported
by scholarships for higher education abroad, the country is now generating
a growing flow of technically trained people who could gradually reduce the
shortage of skilled manpower.



- 3 -
9.        PDRY's economy is heavily dependent on imports.  Having little in-
dustry of its own and a limited agricultural potential, all capital goods,
most intermediate products and a large amount of foodstuffs and other consumer
goods have to be purchased abroad. Its own exchange earnings - mostly from
workers' remittances and services - cover only part of the import bill (average
of 57 percent during 1975-76), the difference being financed largely through
foreign aid. As the economy continues to develop, import requirements are
likely to grow further notwithstanding a certain amount of import substitution.
Increasing the country's exchange earnings thus becomes an urgent need.
Government Expenditure and Financing
10.       The withdrawal of British forces in 1967 and the closure of the Suez
Canal in the same year, left the modern service-oriented economy in and around
Aden with an approximately 30 percent smaller regional income, an extremely
low level of investment (about 3 percent of GNP) and roughly 20,000 people
unemployed (about one fourth of the urban labor force). Foreign exchange
earnings fell by two-fifths while the discontinuation of British budgetary
support reduced government revenue by more than half.
11.       To revive the depressed economy the Government relied primarily on
public spending. Through its Three-Year Plan and the current Five-Year Plan
public investments were increased from US$4 million in 1970 to an estimated
US$76 million in 1975. In relative terms they rose from about 2 percent of
GNP in 1970 to 19 percent in 1975. The allocation of investment funds was
determined by the above-mentioned priorities (paragraph 6) and appears to
have been well chosen: more than half of all public sector investments during
1971-75 went to the commodity producing sectors with agriculture and fishing
receiving 38 percent, industry 17 percent and mineral exploration 4 percent.
A large share (28 percent) was invested in transport and communication facili-
ties (mainly roads) while the remaining 13 percent was spent for social
services. The sharp increase in public investment was accompanied by a major
expansion of current government spending on education, health and other public
services which, during the first half of the 1970s, more than doubled in real
terms.
12.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With the low
per capita income and little real growth during the earlier part of this
decade, there were definite limitations on raising domestic resources even
though rigorous austerity measures were taken to contain personal incomes and
consumption.
13.       The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic resources was
taxation and containment of Government employee salaries. New taxes were in-
troduced and tax collection improved. As a result, current government revenue
rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 16 percent in 1976. In
a country with a large subsistence sector and a per capita income of $280 in
1976, this would have been difficult to exceed. Government employee salaries
were reduced twice, in 1968/69 and in 1972/73. Notwithstanding these efforts,
domestic resources remained insufficient to cover all public expenditures.



14.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were proviided, largely by socialist countries, and more
recently by Arab nations.  In addition, PDRY received support from regional
and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The exact amount
of all foreign resources put at t:he disposal of the country is not known since
some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in the budget or in the
balarnce of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable aid, it is estimated
that aggregate disbursements rose from an average level of some $8 million per
annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to over $100 million in 1976.
Economic Growth
15.       Public investment and current government spending had a large impact
on the level of economic activity. Urban unemployment, a major problem after
independence, has been virtually eliminated. As private per capita consumption
was rigidly contained by severe austerity measures, much of the increase in
public sector demand benefited the poorer population groups in the form of
additional incomes through employment.
16.       Overall growth, although slow in the initial years, accelerated sig-
nificantly towards the mid 1970s. Social and institutional changes slowed
down domestic production during the early 1970s. Private sector activity in
trade and other services which provided a major share of GDP at the time of
independence, declined perceptively as the Government gave priority to the
development of a strong public sector. In addition, growth was also held back
by the time lag between investment and output in the public sector. These
difficulties have, however, been overcome and the average growth rate of GDP
at constant prices increased from about 3 percent per annum during 1970-73 to
an avesrage of about 8 percent during 1974-75.
17.       Agriculture (including iisheries) is still the most important sector
in PDRY's economy employing about 43 percent of the labor force and contri-
buting 23 percent to the GDP in 1975. Growth in this sector has averaged some
4-5 percent p.a. during 1970-75 largely because of the vigorous expansion in
fish production (over 10 percent p.a.). The fisheries subsector was stimulated
by export opportunities and new irnvestments - partly financed by IDA - in
modern boats, fishing gear and storage facilities.  Agricultural output proper
grew at a slower rate (2-3 percent p.a.) keeping just about pace with popula-
tion growth. Mlajor gains were made in the production of vegetables and fodder
crops. Grain output also increased significantly while cotton production, the
country's major export crop, declined. This reflects the emphasis given by
the Government to domestic food production. The increase in agricultural
output was mainly the result of investments in irrigation schemes. About 500
wells have been drilled during the period under consideration, and a number of
diversion weirs were constructed. Consequently, the area under well irriga-
tion increased by about 35 percent, and the spate irrigated area by about 13
percent. Substantial progress has also been made in the livestock subsector
where modern poultry production was introduced and efforts are under way to
increase dairy production. Agriculture and fisheries still offer considerable
scope for further expansion and thie Government is determined to utilize the
potential of the sector.



- 5 -
18.       Economic growth has also been impressive in some other sectors, e.g.
manufacturing, construction and transport. The manufacturing sector is still
small - about 7 percent of GDP in 1975 - but has been growing at a rate of 10
percent p.a. since 1969. Import substitution has been the main thrust of the
Government's industrialization policy with emphasis being given to food pro-
cessing, textiles and construction materials. In Mlay 1977, the Government
reached agreement with British Petroleum (BP) to take over the large Aden
refinery which had been operating at only a fraction of its capacity. Tech-
nical assistance is being provided by BP and the refinery has started to
process, on a commission basis, crude from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Libya and
other oil countries. Throughput is expected to expand substantially which
should give a major boost to PDRY's industrial production. Another growth
sector has been construction; its share in GDP rose from 1 percent in 1969 to
7 percent in 1975 as public investments revived the local construction indus-
try which had suffered severely after independence. The reopening of the Suez
Canal in 1975 has led to a sharp increase of activity in the Port of Aden
which also benefitted from the congestion in the Ports of Hodeidah in YAR and
Jeddah in Saudi Arabia. As a result, a substantial volume of cargo is now
being unloaded at Aden and transported mostly by land to YAR, and by sea on
traditional crafts to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf.
Foreign Payments and External Debts
19.       The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. This trend
was, however, partly offset by austerity measures which sharply curtailed
imports of non-essential consumer goods. In addition, the increase in local
production of foodstuffs and manufactured goods has apparently permitted a
certain amount of import substitution. The volume of imports appears, there-
fore, to have grown relatively slowly until the mid-1970s. Notwithstanding
the constraint on the volume of imports, there has been a rapid increase in
import value, due to the sharp rise in international prices, especially during
1974. The value of imports has more than trebled since the beginning of the
decade from an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated
US$280 million in 1976. Besides the devaluation of the US Dollar, this mainly
reflects price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products. The growth in
import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange budget, all
the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus benefits only
marginally from price rises in the world markets.
20.       Indigenous exports have been able to cover only a minor share of
the import bill. In 1976 they were estimated to be about US$26 million or
some 9 percent of imports. More important than commodity exports are PDRY's
invisible earnings which are dominated by workers' remittances. The latter
declined sharply in the early 1970s but are recovering gradually in more recent
years, due mainly to rising labor demand and wage levels in the oil surplus
countries, and also because of a change in Government policy offering higher
interest rates to non-resident depositors in PDRY's banks and allowing private
ownership of dwellings for the use of the owner and his family.



- 6 -
21.       Rising import prices have, however, created a serious shortfall in
PDRY's exchange balance. Total excchange earnings, which in 1969 and 1970 were
still adequate to pay for all imports, covered only about half of the import
bill ln the last three years. As a consequence, the current account balance
showed a rising deficit which exceeded $100 million in 1976. A large part
of the growing current deficit was financed by foreign aid. As a result of
recent changes in Government policy workers' remittances could potentially
grow f-urther in the future thus helping to ease PDRY's chronic foreign ex-
change shortage.
22.       The heavy inflow of foreign resources led to a rapid accumulation
of PDRY's external public debt evetn though part of the aid was given in grant
form. Total debt outstanding including undisbursed as of end 1976 amounted
to US$422 million, of which US$226 million was disbursed. Bilateral sources
account for 80 percent of total external debt, with USSR providing the bulk
(US$109 million), followed by China (US$88 million), Libya (US$37 million),
the Kuwait Fund (US$31 million), other Eastern Bloc countries (US$35 million),
other Arab Governments and Funds (US$33 million) and Denmark (US$3 million).
Multinational aid came from the Arab Fund (US$47 million) and IDA (US$38
million). The terms of these loans are concessionary with an average weighted
interest rate of 1.5 percent, grace period of 6 years, and maturity of 24 years,
giving a grant element of more than 59 percent.
23.       The soft terms and the recent nature of PDRY's external debt resulted
in relatively small service obligations so far. Debt service payments at the
end of 1976 were only US$0.2 million, about 0.1 percent of total exports of
goods and services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt
service obligations are projected to jump to US$8.7 million in 1977, and to
increase steadily through 1983. This will exert additional pressure on the
already strained balance of payments. Therefore, in view of the above and
the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should
continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reasons, local cost financing by
IDA is justified.
24.       In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government national-
ized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (mainly banks, insurance companies
and port services), but not the refinery and bunkering facilities in the port.
This Law provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds
bearing interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits
of all these nationalized companies were to be used for servicing these bonds.
In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substan-
tial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad.  Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of account-
ants of international repute to audlit the accounts of all the nationalized
companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to the
Government in September 1971. Settlements have since been reached with three
of the foreign companies involved, and contacts with others have been main-
tained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements.  The Govern-
ment has indicated to the former owrners of nationalized oil companies that in
reaching settlement on their claims it was willing to consider the possibility



- 7 -
of accelerating the redemption of bonds to be issued as compensation. Further-
more, it has invited them to invest in exploring ventures in PDRY. Dialogue
with debtors have, however, been very slow since they have only recently re-
sponded to the Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government professes
its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all claimant compa-
nies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settlement outside
the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law. It is also considering becoming
a member of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
25.       The proposed credit for an agricultural project in Wadi Tuban would
be the Association's eighth operation in PDRY, bringing total IDA commitments
to $43.0 million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a
member of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971, under the First Highway
project ($1.6 million), which provided funds for feasibility studies and
detailed engineering, some maintenance equipment and technical assistance to
the Ministry of Public Works. A Highway Engineering Credit ($0.6 million)
in 1972 financed an extension of the technical assistance and the detailed
engineering of additional roads, and was later refinanced under the Second
Highway project. The Fisheries project ($3.5 million) in 1973 and the Educa-
tion project ($5.4 million) in 1974 were the Association's first investment
projects in PDRY. A Supplementary Credit ($1.6 million) for the Fisheries
project to help finance cost overruns was approved by the Executive Directors
in January 1975. Subsequently, a credit of $15.5 million was approved in May
1975 to finance a Second Highway project, which includes construction of 358
km of road between Mlukalla on the coast and the landlocked agricultural area
of Wadi Hadramawt, prepared under the First Highway project and the Highway
Engineering Credit. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development participated
in financing this project with a loan of $15.3 million equivalent. A credit
of $3.2 million to finance the Aden Port Rehabilitation project providing for
essential equipment to enable the port to serve increased ship traffic (follow-
ing the reopening of the Suez Canal) was approved on August 21, 1975. The
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development extended a loan of $13.6 million
equivalent for this project. Lastly, a credit of $7.0 million to finance an
Agricultural Development project in Wadi Hadramawt was approved on February
19, 1976. The project focusses on increasing yields through improved cul-
tural practices. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as
of December 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 8 -
26.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. It also includes assistance for PDRY to take advantage of
the opportunity offered by the reopening of the Suez Canal to increase foreign
exchange earnings and employment in the short- to medium-terms. Efforts have
been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which would not only
help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more importantly, link
production areas with the main markets. Other sectors where the Association
has assisted and will continue to assist, are in the fields of education and
training and in agriculture, including the key fisheries subsector.  Technical
assistance and institution-building will continue to be an integral feature
in the Association's projects in PDRY.
27.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
A Power project is now being prepared for possible future lending, by the
Government and consultants financed by an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility. A follow-up Agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt is expected to
result from an ongoing study by cornsultants financed under the first Wadi
Hadramawt project. A Second Fisheries project (based in a less-developed
region of PDRY) is also being prepared for possible lending in future years.
Studies to prepare a Third Highway project are included under the ongoing
Second Highway project. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects
are expected to be substantially higher than the funds the Association can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage Arab and
other development agencies to join the Association in the financing of suit-
able projects. In this manner, IDA projects would act as a catalyst for
increasing the inflow of development aid to the country.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PROJECT AREA
General
28.       PDRY's generally mountainous and desert topography, its arid climate
with high temperatures and little precipitation, and the absence of permanent
water streams limit agricultural production to some 12 scattered wadis com-
prising the total arable area of about 110,000 ha or about 0.3 percent of the
country's land surface. Since about: 76 percent of the arable land depends
upon irrigation by seasonal floods, agricultural production is subject to
considerable fluctuations from year to year. Although two-thirds of the
population live in rural areas, the agricultural sector, including the well-
endowed and fast developing fisheries subsector, generates only about 23
percent of the GDP and from 25 percent to 45 percent of export income. About
70 percent of the cultivated area is planted with cereals, and the remainder
with cotton (the main export commodity), fodder crops, fruits, dates, and
vegetables. Food production is mainly subsistence-based with only a modest
marketable surplus. Food accounts for about 30 percent of all imports and
nearly seven times agricultural exports including fishery exports.



- 9 -
29.       A major aim of the Government since independence has been to bring
about a change in the traditional land tenure system to eliminate sharecrop-
ping and redistribute land to landless tenants and other target groups. The
Agrarian Reform Laws of 1968 and 1970, which are administered by a central
committee in the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), limit
private ownership of land to 8 ha in the perennially irrigated areas and to
16 ha in the rainfed areas. Holdings in excess of these limits were redistri-
buted by the Government to landless rural workers, small farmers and urban
poor who were willing to resettle in rural areas.  Redistributed lands were
reorganized into cooperatives and state farms, the latter being required by
law to have a permanent source of irrigation water (from wells), while the
cooperatives are mainly spate-irrigated. Expropriated agricultural equipment
was given to newly established Machinery Renting Stations (MRSs), wells and
irrigation equipment to cooperative and state farms, with their operation
and maintenance being assigned to the MRS against a fee. The establishment,
organization and operation of cooperative farms was further defined in the
Cooperative Law of 1972, which provides in particular that members contribute
to the cooperative's expenses a fee corresponding to 5 percent of the gross
value of their cereals and vegetable production. While production on coop-
erative farms is still largely subsistence oriented, state farms have been
assigned a leading role for agricultural development. The land they received
under the agrarian reform is being expanded by newly irrigated areas. They
own agricultural equipment and only occasionally rent from MRSs. In most
areas they function as seed multiplication farms, are used for demonstration
purposes, and receive substantial technical guidance from the UNDP/FAO assisted
Research and Training Station at El-Kod.
30.       The Government maintains strict control over commodity prices and
the cost of cash inputs. Farmgate prices of various agricultural produce,
stable since 1973, were increased in early 1977. This brought the price of
sorghum and maize to about 60 percent above world market levels. The price of
cotton was also increased but remains well below the export pricelevel. All
major agricultural commodities are marketed through the National Company for
Home Trade (NCHT), the National Company for Foreign trade (NCFT) and the
Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruits and Vegetables (PCMFV). The NCHT
is responsible for the marketing of cereals which are acquired both domestic-
ally and from abroad. It performs its functions through local procurement
centers and a chain of wholesale and retail points. The importation of food
and inputs, and the export of agricultural produce, mainly cotton falls under
the jurisdiction of NCFT. The PCMFV operates receiving stations and retail
stores and also distributes through private retailers. The marketing of
livestock and the operation of slaughterhouses is carried out by the National
Meat Corporation (NMC). Agricultural production is comparatively heavily
taxed (15 percent on gross value of cereals, cotton, forages and tobacco, and
a similar levy on the gross value of vegetables), but most cash inputs carry
substantial subsidies; as an example the MRSs fees do not cover the cost of
their services. Agricultural and irrigation equipment (for which the NCFT is
the sole importer) is largely financed by the Government and handed over to
MRSs, state farms and cooperative farms.



- 10 -
31.       Low-cost credit is the main vehicle the Government uses to encourage
the development of agriculture and other productive sectors and to promote
progress in areas outside Aden. Interest rates are set by the Board of
Directors of the banking system and approved by the Council of Ministers.
Credits for productive purposes are presently available at a maximum interest
rate of 6 percent per annum. A higher interest rate of 10 percent as an
exception, however, has been allowed in the case of subloans extended from
funds provided under the IDA Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR) because of the
comparatively higher yields in the fisheries subsector. Interest rates have
only a marginal effect, if any, on the allocation of resoures in PDRY's
centrally managed economy and therefore, the present low rates are not likely
to lead to misuse of scarce capital funds. Similarly an increase in interest
rates is not likely to have any significant effect on mobilization of resources
in the project area because the majority of the beneficiaries are living well
below the poverty level (paragraph 40) and have little or no savings. The two
major sources of agricultural credilt are the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) and
the MAAR Agricultural Development Fund (ADF). The NBY is a Government-owned
commercial bank which extends both short- and medium-term credit at interest
rates between 5 percent and 6 percent to cooperatives and state farms. It
also lends for industrial purposes and provides overdraft facilities to
various marketing and industrial organizations. The ADF, financed largely
by surpLuses from the export of cotton, provides mainly medium-term credit
at highly subsidized interest rates of between 1 percent and 2 percent for
purchase of equipment such as pump sets and agricultural machinery.
32.       Agricultural research is carried out by the UNDP/FAO assisted re-
search station at El-Kod and a few sub-stations. The main emphasis is on
applied research on new varieties of cotton, wheat and on the development of
appropriate techniques for the cultivation of vegetables. Pre- and in-service
training is being given to students and farmers, including most of the staff
of the MAAR, complementing higher agricultural education offered by the Nasser
Institute of Agriculture in Lahej. To cope with the serious shortage of
trained manpower on cooperative farms, a Cooperative Education and Training
Center has been set up with support from UNDP/ILO. Farm machinery and rural
skills centers and rural development centers in key agricultural areas are
also being provided under the IDA Education Project (Credit 494-YAR).
33.       There is considerable scope for increasing agricultural output
in the country through use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals,
adoption of improved crop varieties, and more efficient use of available
irrigation water. Several studies are currently underway which may lead to
expansion of irrigation by tapping presently unused sources of water. In
the current Five-Year Plan (1974-1978), about 37 percent of investment has
been allocated to the agriculture and fisheries sector. In addition, a sig-
nificant proportion of the 25 percent of investment allocated to transporta-
tion is being used to construct roads which will increase possibilities for
regional specialization and intensification in agriculture, and link the
important production areas with the markets. The proposed project conforms



- 11 -
well with the country's needs by focussing on measures that would boost agri-
cultural output, thereby increasing export earnings (cotton) and promoting
import substitution (cereals, tomatoes for paste production, forages for
livestock and some increase in oilseeds output).
Previous Projects in the Agricultural Sector
34.       The Association has financed two projects in the agriculture sector,
one for the development of fisheries and the other for agricultural develop-
ment in Wadi Hadramawt. Under the Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR), IDA,
through a credit of US$3.5 million and a supplementary credit of US$1.6 mil-
lion to cover increased costs due to foreign and domestic inflation, provided
100 percent of foreign expenditures for the construction of shore facilities,
provision of equipment, fishing vessels, technical assistance and training.
Progress although initially hampered because of delays in locating a suitable
project manager, is now generally satisfactory. The more recently approved
Wadi Hadramawt Project (Cr. 615-YDR), provided a credit of US$7.0 million to
finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 74 percent of local expendi-
tures for the procurement of agricultural equipment and supplies, construction
of a date packing plant, feeder roads and village water supply works, and
provision of technical assistance and training. The project's main objective
is to increase agricultural yields through the introduction and adoption of
improved cultural practices. Project implementation has been slow because of
difficulties experienced in securing suitable expatriate personnel for the key
management positions.
Project Area - Wadi Tuban
35.       The project is located in Wadi Tuban in the southern district of the
second Governorate. Lahej, the capital of the Governorate and the center of
the project area is approximately 40 km north of Aden, the capital of the
country and a major seaport. The project area, characterized by low and erratic
rainfall, high temperatures and relatively high humidity, encompasses approxi-
mately 10,000 ha of arable land (about 9 percent of the country's total) of
which about 2,100 ha are cultivated by 12 state farms using ground water from
75 tubewells for irrigation. Crop production throughout the year is possible
on these farms which employ about 2600 workers. Each farm has a Government
appointed manager responsible for supervising operations and hiring labor.
Crop plans are set by the Government but may be adjusted later depending upon
available resources of a particular farm. Four of the farms in the project
area specialize in livestock production -- dairying, sheep and goat raising,
and beef fattening. All state farms own their own machinery, some of which
is, however, obsolete and needs to be replaced. They also lack appropriate
equipment to undertake the proposed land-levelling required under the project.
Major improvements are also necessary in the irrigation systems to increase
efficiency of water use by reducing conveyance loss. The state farms are
further handicapped by a shortage of technically trained personnel.
36.       The remaining 8000 ha are occupied by seven cooperatives consisting
of 7000 farm families with an average cultivable area of about 1.1 ha per
farmer member, who rely upon spate water for irrigation. One crop per year



- 12 -
with high peak demands for labor is possible in this area.  Six of the coop-
eratives are service cooperatives characterized by individually operated farm
holdings but with collective responsibility for obtaining credit and for mar-
keting produce. The one remaining is a production cooperative, with all means
of production (including livestock) collectively operated and members remuner-
ated on the basis of work shares. Each cooperative is administered by an
elected board of 7-10 members, with an elected chairman and secretary, assisted
by appointed accounting and technical staff. Tractors and farm equipment are
hired from the MRS. There is insufficient equipment, however, to allow timely
mechanized operations, and development in the cooperatives is also hindered by
lack of trained staff (especially7 in accounting and record collection) and by
inadequate extension services.
37.       The Delta Tuban Development Board (DTDB) is an autonomous body an-
swerable directly to the Minister- of Agriculture and is the only established
institution in the area helping to meet the needs of the farming community.
Its eleven member board of directors with representation from both the coopera-
tive and state farms, is headed by the Permanent Secretary of MAAR as the
Chairman.  A manager appointed by the Board and assisted by heads of the
Agriculture, Cotton Ginnery, Accounting and Machinery Renting Sections is
responsible for the daily operation. The agricultural section is concerned
chiefly with providing services to the cooperative farms. It maintains the
spate irrigation system and controls the distribution of flood water on the
basis of an agreed cropping pattern. It supervises the extension agents
permanently stationed on the seven cooperative farms, and is also responsible
for distributing fertilizers and insecticides to them. The cotton ginnery
section collects, grades, gins, and markets the cotton grown in the area.
The MRS, under the general supervision of the DTDB manager, operates largely
on an autonomous basis. It rents agricultural machinery to the cooperatives
and occassionally to the state farms which own most of their own equipment.
Repair and maintenance services on state farms are, however, provided by the
MRS against a fee. The accounting section maintains records related to the
cotton program.
38.       The management of DTDB, although generally competent has limited
knowledge of modern agricultural practices and farm management know-how. Its
extenSion service needs to be strengthened so that the results of agricultural
research undertaken by the El-Kod station can be disseminated more effectively
and adopted by farmers in Wadi Tuban. With appropriate technical assistance
and training of its staff (paragraph 54), DTDB is capable of developing into a
strong institution ready to play a leading role in the general development of
the area.
Land Utse and Agricultural Production
39.       The area cultivated under spate-irrigation in the project area varies
widely depending on the seasonal flood, but averages about 5,000 hectares.
Approximately 60 percent of the area is sown to cotton, 30 percent to sorghum
and 5 percent each to watermelon and sesame. Yields are low ber-use of
antiquated cultural practices with practically no fertilizer,. being used oil
spate irrigated lands, while the limited use of plant pr   .-on chemica'. i-l



- 13 -
confined to cotton, and to some extent, watermelons. Extension service is
practically non-existent, with the few extension workers mostly occupied with
data collection activity. The dominant crop on the state farms is tomato
which covers about 50 percent of the total cultivated area, having displaced
the long staple cotton, formerly grown in the area; almost all of the tomatoes
are processed into paste at the Al Fiyush tomato paste factory about 17 km
southeast of Lahej. Sorghum for grain and forage occupies 30 percent of the
cultivated area, melons and a wide variety of vegetables (mainly okra, egg-
plant, onion, pepper and potato) about 15 percent, and there are small areas
of maize, forage legumes and other crops. Fertilizers are used to some extent
on most crops, and a limited amount of plant protection chemicals on tomatoes,
melons and vegetables. Yields, which are presently low, are expected to
double when the project is fully developed in about 6 years. The state farms
also have a small orchard area of 105 ha, consisting mainly of bananas and old
mango trees. The banana plantation is in the process of being removed because
of disease problems, and will be replaced by a new mango orchard under the
project.
40.       The project area is crossed by a paved road which goes from Aden to
the border of the Yemen Arab Republic in the north. Feeder roads linking
villages in the area are mainly earth tracks and require the use of four-wheel
drive vehicles. Two cobbled feeder roads, constructed by MAAR, link the
Jawala State farm and the Al Fiyush tomato paste factory to the main road.
The rural population in the area is basically poor with an average annual farm
income of US$148 or US$30 per capita for an average family of five. Although
some additional income is also derived from non-farm activities, and in some
cases from remittance from relatives working abroad, the total income per
individual is well below the Relative Poverty level estimated for the country
at US$75 (1976) and even compares poorly with the low national per capita
income of US$280 (1976). The villagers in the project area usually obtain
water for domestic and livestock use from shallow wells which tend to dry up
and have to be continuously deepened. The rural areas are not supplied with
electricity for domestic use. State farms, however, have electricity for
agricultural purposes. School attendance is high for the six years of com-
pulsory education, but classroom facilities and teacher/pupil ratios are not
satisfactory. Education at the intermediate and college levels is provided by
the Nasser Institute of Agriculture at Lahej. Malaria is the major disease in
the area. Although there is one hospital and a health center at Lahej, health
care and preventive medicine are inadequate in the rural areas outside Lahej.
There is a branch of the Institute of Health and Manpower Development (Aden)
established in Lahej for training practical nurses.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project evolved from an FAO/UNDP sponsored study undertaken by
ITALCONSULT, Rome, on "Soil and Water Conservation and Utilization in the Wadi
Tuban Watershed Area". The project was planned with the assistance of a FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission in May 1976 and prepared by another CP
mission in December 1976. The project was appraised in April/May 1977. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in December 1977. PDRY's delegation was
headed by Mr. Anwar Girgirah, Acting Director of Planning, MAAR, and included



- 14 -
representatives of the 'Ministry of Planning and the Delta Tuban Development
Board. An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Wadi Tuban Agricultural
Development Project (No. 1727a-YDR), dated January 25, 1978 is being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. A map of PDRY and one of the
project area are attached to this report.
Project Description
42.       The project would provide for (i) improvements in the irrigation
system on about 1755 ha of land on the state farms; (ii) fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals to the state and cooperative farms; (iii) agricultural
equiprnent and farm implements to ithe MRS and state farms; (iv) the establish-
ment of an orchard and shelterbelts; (v) potable water supply to six villages
in the project area; (vi) the construction of about 22 km of feeder roads to
link nine villages with the main Aden-Lahej paved road; (vii) a water manage-
ment study to refine the estimates of available surface and groundwater poten-
tial of the Wadi, (viii) an agricultural policies study, (ix) services of a
core of expatriate experts to assist in project management and in-service
training, and (x) training abroad of project staff.
43.       The project aims at increasing agricultural production in Wadi Tuban
by increasing the cropping intensity in the groundwater irrigated areas and
crop yields in both the groundwater and spate irrigated areas. Increased
yields, particularly on the cooperative farms, would assist in converting the
present largely subsistence-based farming in Wadi Tuban to the production
of marketable surpluses, thereby supporting the Government's long term objec-
tive of making the country self-sufficient in food. Present yields could
be doubled by adopting the agricultural package program developed by the
UNDP/FAO assisted research station, at El-Kod. This would require increased
use of fertilizers, insecticides and farm implements to be provided under the
project. Conservation of water on the perennially irrigated areas of the
state farms is also another key objective which would be achieved by replacing
the existing unlined water courses conducting tubewell water to the fields by
a more efficient buried pipe distribution system. The feeder roads under the
project would connect villages and production areas with the main Aden-Lahej
road and thereby facilitate the movement of agricultural inputs and outputs
and reduce the present isolation of the village-dwellers. The provision of
a system supplying potable water to six villages would improve the health
conditions of 6000 people in the project area. The water management study
would seek to maximize the use of available water in the Wadi by ascertaining
the safe yield of the aquifer, locating an alternate source of potable water
for Aden which also draws its supply from the Wadi Tuban aquifer, examining
the feasibility of using Aden's sewage effluent for additional irrigation
and developing a comprehensive water use plan for the Wadi Tuban delta. In
view of the scarce water resources of the country as a whole, provision has
also been made to undertake a land cover - land use association satellite
study of selected areas to identify areas with groundwater potential for
future agricultural development. The agricultural policies study would
recommend alternative policy instruments which the Government could adopt



- 15 -
to improve agricultural productivity, resource mobilization and income dis-
tribution. The expatriate experts will provide technical assistance to the
DTDC, the project implementing agency (paragraph 45), and with the help of
Yemeni counterparts and extension officers will advise farmers in modern
production techniques and application of the El-Kod agricultural package
programs.
44.       The project would supply the full requirements of fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals for the first year and incremental amounts for the
second, third and fourth years of project implementation. The Government has
agreed to provide the basic requirements of fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals in years two, three and four, and thereafter to continue to procure
and utilize in the project area, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals
of at least the quantity used in the last year of the project implementation
(Section 3.07(a) of draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
45.       Project implementation would be the responsibility of DTDB (para-
graph 37). At the Association's suggestion, the Government enlarged the
responsibilities of the Lahej Agricultural Development Board (LADB), the
existing agricultural service institution in Wadi Tuban and changed its name
to DTDB in January 1978. The DTDB, with these additional responsibilities
will now be able to supervise the activities of both the state and cooperative
farms and undertake other activities (paragraph 47) necessary to implement the
project effectively.
46.       The DTDB would be assisted in implementing the project by five expa-
triate experts -- an irrigation agronomist, an irrigation (civil) engineer,
an extension specialist, a farm machinery specialist and a farm management
specialist. The most experienced of these five specialists would be appointed
the project manager. Two counterpart staff would be assigned to work with
the project manager, one as a project co-manager and the other to assist with
the administrative duties. The other four expatriate specialists would also
be assisted by at least one counterpart each. The Government agreed that (i)
the appointment of the Project Manager with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association and his two counterparts would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of draft Credit Agreement) and that
(ii) it will appoint by August 31, 1978, the remaining four specialists, all
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and assign
to each at least one qualified local agriculturalist (Section 3.06(a) of draft
Credit Agreement).
47.       The DTDB would carry out the detailed planning of all irrigation
works, agricultural activities, budget preparation, input distribution, and
after approval by the MAAR, their timely execution. It would provide tech-
nical support and advice to the state farms and cooperatives through its
extension service, carry out regular maintenance of tubewells on the state
farms, as well as of the spate irrigation distribution system, and provide
administrative and accounting support and supervision of state and cooperative
farms. It would maintain liaison with the El-Kod Research Station and the
Demonstration Farm to be established in Wadi Tuban with UNDP financing. It



- 16 -
would also prepare contract documents, including technical specifications, for
all project procurement. Actual procurement would, however, be through the
National Company for Foreign Trade (NCFT), which is the sole importing agency
of the Government. The construction of feeder roads and rural water supply
schemes would be arranged by DTDB through the Public Works department (PWD),
and the Public Water Corporation (PWC), either by force account or under
negotiated contract with the agencies. The DTDB would procure and install
electric motors to replace the remaining worn out diesel engines for operating
the tubewells. Any extension to the overhead power distribution lines required
would be carried out by the Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP)
(Section 3.13 of draft Credit Agreement). Operation of the tubewells and the
buried pipe net work would be under the control of each farm manager, who
would be advised by DTDB.
48.       The National Bank of Yemnen (NBY) would maintain a record of all
subloans and disbursements from the funds on lent to it by the Borrower. All
organizations connected with project implementation, DTDB, PWD, PWC and MRS,
would maintain separate accounts of all project expenditures (Section 4.01(a)
of draft Credit Agreement), and would have such accounts audited annually by
the Central Organization for Audit, which has this responsibility by law; this
is acceptable to the Association. NBY's project related account would also be
audited. Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association within six
months; of the close of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(b) of draft Credit
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.3 million in-
cluding contingencies; the foreign exchange component is US$9.6 million (79
percent). Items of expenditure include US$4.4 million for the irrigation
system; US$1.5 million for technical assistance and training; US$3.0 million
for the procurement of fertilizers and plant protection chemical, agricultural
equipment, an orchard and shelterbelts, construction of feeder roads and water
supply works, agricultural policies study and water management study; and the
balance of US$3.4 million for contingencies. Details of the cost estimates
are given below.
Estimated Cost
US$ Thousands
Local    Foreign    Total
A.  Irrigation Improvement                          966      3,454      4,420
B.  Fertilizer and Insecticides                      49        441        490
C.  Agricultural Equipment                           -         977        977
D.  Orchard and Shelterbelts                        116        -          116
E.  Water Supply and Feeder Roads                   232        284        516
F.  Agricultural Policies and Water Studies          58        813        871
G.  Technical Assistance and Training               331      1,162      1,493
H.  Physical Contingencies                          249        815      1,064
I.  Price Contingencies                             620      1,687     2,307
Total                                         2,621     9,633    12,254



- 17 -
50.       The IDA Credit of US$5.2 million would finance ab-out 42 percent of
the total cost and would cover US$5.0 million of foreign expenditures and
US$0.2 million of local expenditures. In view of the limited resources of
the country (see paragraph 23) local cost financing by IDA is recommended.
The Government would contribute about US$1.0 million, all in local currency
to meet about 8 percent of the total project cost. The Government and IDA
together would finance all project components except the irrigation improve-
ments on the state farms. The Government of PDRY is exploring with other
external sources for the provision of US$6.1 (US$4.6 million for foreign
expenditures and US$1.5 million for local expenditures) under parallel
financing arrangements to cover the cost of the irrigation component. The
signing of loan agreement(s) between the Government and the external co-
financier(s) is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of
draft Credit Agreement). The financing plan is shown below.
Financing Plan
US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local     Foreign
Currency    Currency    Total   Percent
IDA proposed                         200        5,000       5,200     42
Other external source(s)           1,500        4,600       6,100     50
Government                         1,000          -         1,000      8
Total                           2,700        9,600                100
On-Lending
51.       The Government will relend US$1.9 million of the proceeds of the
credit to NBY at no less than 3 percent per annum, repayable over 12 years,
including 2 years of grace. NBY will in turn make subloans to finance the
purchase, by the MRS, and the state and cooperative farms, of equipment and
supplies, provided under the project. Subloans for agricultural equipment
would be at 5-1/2 percent interest per annum for a period of 5 to 7 years and
those for fertilizers and insecticides at 6 percent per annum for periods of
up to one year. The interest rates on the subloans are in line with those
NBY currently charges on agricultural credit for similar purposes and although
low in comparison to rates prevailing in other countries, are acceptable in
the special circumstances of PDRY (paragraph 31). Also, in view of the
already low income of the principal beneficiaries (paragraph 40) who would be
the major recipients of the subloans, an increase in the interest rate is not
proposed. These rates are also the same as those approved by the Association
for subloans extended under the Wadi Hadramawt agricultural project (Cr. 615-
YDR). The difference between the terms of subloans and those of NBY's repay-
ments to the Government would cover its administrative expenses. The risk
of possible default would not be a major concern to NBY since all subloans,
following current practice for other agricultural loans to the cooperative
and state farms would be guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance. Any future
upward adjustment of NBY'S interest rates would also be applied to subsequent



- 18 -
project subloans (Section 3.03(d) of draft Credit Agreement). Execution of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and NBY will be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The balance of the credit would be disbursed as direct project expenditures.
Water Supply, Quality and Requirements
52.       The quantity and quality of water in Wadi Tuban are adequate for the
proposed spate irrigation under the project. The improved irrigation systems
to be constructed under the projecit would increase water conservation and
permit groundwater extraction for agricultural use to be maintained at about
the same level as the present extraction of about 28.5 Mm3, even with the
proposed increased cropping intensity. The total net withdrawal of about 52
Mm3 including 23 1m3 for potable water, would thus tax the aquifer to its
recharge limit estimated between 40 Mm3 and 60 Mm3. Increased withdrawal
would Lead to salt water intrusion. Recognizing its importance the Government
agreed that no additional tubewells, except for the two proposed under the
project- to replace shallow village water-supply wells, will be drilled in the
project area until the results of the water management study included in the
project, are known and evaluated (Section 3.12(a)(ii) of draft Credit Agree-
ment). The study would, after ascertaining a more accurate recharge rate,
draw up appropriate plans for the efficient use and management of the water
resources in Wadi Tuban.
Riparian Rights
53.       No riparian rights problems are anticipated in the area, although
Wadi Tuban has a substantial proportion (about 70 percent) of its contributing
catchment in the Yemen Arab Republic. This catchment is at higher elevations
with an average annual rainfall of over 500 mm. The nature of the terrain and
the amount of rainfall it receives is such that the risk of any significant
diversion of the Wadi runoff by Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is negligible. The
project will not have any adverse effect on YAR as no work altering the wadi's
surface flow regime is proposed. T'hus the consent of YAR is not necessary.
Technical Assistance and Training
54.       The project provides for a total of 270 man-months of technical
assistance (US$2.1 million excluding equipment and contingencies), of which
180 man-months would be for the five expatriate specialists to assist DTDB in
project implementation (paragraph 46). Of the balance of 90 man-months the
water management study (paragraph 43) is allocated 70 man-months and will be
completed over a period of 27 months and the agricultural policies studies
(paragraph 43) is allocated 20 man-months. The cost per man-month of consul-
tants' services would be about US$7,800. Funds have also been allocated for
approximately 63 man-months of training abroad for the extension officers and
60 man-months for the counterparts in project related disciplines.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       All equipment and material, except for minor items required for
immediate use and of less than US$20,000 in value with an aggregate value not
exceeding US$200,000, will be procured through international competitive bid-
ding and in accordance with the World Bank procurement guidelines. The civil
works financed by IDA under the project (feeder roads and village water supply
works) because of their small size and their scattered nature are not suitable
for international competitive bidding and will be carried out on force account
by PWD or PWC or under negotiated contracts under arrangements acceptable to
IDA. Construction equipment and materials needed would be tendered inter-
nationally. For items financed by other external agencies, procurement would
be in accordance with their guidelines.
56.       Disbursement from the credit account will be made on the basis of
100 percent of the cost of imported equipment and material or 85 percent of
the cost of imported items procured locally, 37 percent of the civil works,
100 percent of the total cost of the water management, agricultural policies
and satellite studies and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 20 percent
of local expenditures of the Technical Assistance and training component.
Disbursement for fertilizers and plant protection chemicals would be for 100
percent of foreign expenditures. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by mid-1982. A summary of the estimated annual disbursements is given below.
Estimated Disbursements
US$ Thousands
IDA FY      1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual                          150   1,300   1,925        825   1,000
Cumulative                      150   1,450   3,375   4,200   5,200
Financial Aspects
57.       With full development of the project in 1983, the gross value of
agricultural production per annum in the area is expected to rise from US$3.5
million to US$7.3 million. This would make it possible for government subsi-
dies to cooperative and state farms to be reduced. The Government agreed that
rental rates and maintenance charges of the MRS in the project area will be
raised by not later than March 1, 1979 to cover actual operation and mainte-
nance costs of agricultural equipment and pump sets (Section 3.08 (a) of draft
Credit Agreement). This would result in a savings of about US$38,000 per year
to the Government in reduced subsidies. Also, the Borrower would recover
fully from the State and Cooperative farms in the project area the costs of
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and insecticides provided to them
(Section 3.07(b) of draft Credit Agreement). The average income per farm
family, after taxes and levies, is estimated to increase from about US$148 to
US$242, an increase of about 63 percent. Even with this increase farm income
is modest and further cuts in government subsidies are not feasible. Since
the expected level of farmer income does not permit MRS rental rates to be
raised sufficiently to generate the funds required for making repayments on



- 20 -
the subloans for agricultural equipment and for financing future replacement,
there would be a continued need for government subsidies for these purposes.
The Government agreed that it will (i) give financial assistance to MRS for
the repayment of subloans (Section 3.05(a) of draft Credit Agreement); and
(ii) finance from its budget needed replacements of agricultural equipment in
the future (Section 3.05(b) of draft Credit Agreement).  In order to achieve
the maximum practical cost recovery, the Government agreed to review and
readjust at regular intervals, not exceeding 3 years, rental rates of the MRS
(Section 3.08(b) of draft Credit Agreement). The reviews would cover all
major cost determining factors, including interest rates on agricultural
credits, production taxes, and government subsidies.  Government assistance to
MRS would be adjusted based on the results of the reviews. The investment
cost incurred in improving the irrigation system on the state farms would be
recovered by the Government over a period of twenty years (the estimated life
of the system) at an interest rate of 5 percent per annum (Section 3.09 of
draft Credit Agreement).
58.       Special project charges to fully recoup the costs of the non-credit
items of the project are not appropriate since the benefits of these items
are either social or of a general nature. In part, these investments will be
recovered by rising public revenue from production taxes and cooperative fees
which will increase with full development of the project from the present
level of YD 158,000 (US$458,000) to about YD 369,000 (US$1.1 million). As
for operation and maintenance, the Government agreed that its departments
concerned, PWD and PWC respectively, will properly maintain the feeder roads
and water supply facilities to be constructed under the project (Section 3.11
of draft Credit Agreement) and determine and collect from the beneficiaries
appropriate water supply charges with a view to covering the operation and
maintenance costs of the water supply works provided such charges do not
exceed the rate prevalent in the project area (Section 3.10 of draft Credit
Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Risk
59.       The project would increase the annual gross value of agricultural
production in the area by about 107 percent. Increasing yields would permit
a reduction in the importation of food resulting in annual foreign exchange
savings to the country of about US$1.2 million, and an increase in the volume
of public revenue from the area by about 134 percent.  The water study would
produce data which could result in a further expansion and intensification of
irrigated agriculture in the area.  The DTDB, with its extension and manage-
ment capabilities built up by technical assistance and training under the
project would be an important institution capable of playing a leading role
in furtLher development of the Wadi. The agricultural policies study would
provide the Government with a choice of alternative policy instruments to
improve farm income.
60.       The principal beneficiaries would be the 7000 cooperative farm
families (36,000 persons) whose average annual income per family after taxes
and levies would rise by about 63 percent at full project development (para-
graph 57). The income received from the state farms by the 2,600 workers
would increase from US$32 in 1976 by 35 percent to about US$43 at full dev-
elopmenit of the project. They would also benefit in real terms through



- 21 -
improved benefits and better working conditions as the state farms net revenue
increases. The infrastructure component, besides creating about 200,000 days
of work during the construction period would support agricultural development
and improve living conditions and the welfare of the rural population. An
additional 326,000 days of work per annum would be created on farms following
project completion.
61.       The economic rate of return for the project as a whole not taking
into account the unquantifiable benefits from the infrastructure component of
feeder roads and water supply is 24 percent. With the infrastructure costs
and the water management study excluded from the calculations, the rate of
return increases to 27 percent. Sensitivity analysis for the project (exclud-
ing infrastructure) reveals that with a simultaneous increase in costs of 20
percent and decrease in benefits of 20 percent, which is unlikely in reality,
the rate of return would be reduced to 12 percent.
62.       The project faces no special risks although delays in the appoint-
ment of expatriate personnel, particularly the project manager could delay
the start of implementation and result in a postponement of the benefits to
a period later than envisaged. To safeguard against this, the appointment
of the project manager and his two counterparts has been made a condition of
credit effectiveness (paragraph 46). A water management study is to be
undertaken as part of the project with the major objectives of refining the
estimates of surface and groundwater potential and the recharge rate of the
aquifer. The project as designed does not propose to utilize more water
than is currently being consumed for agricultural purposes. Even if the
proposed study indicates that the present water consumption is in excess of
the recharge rate, it would not affect agricultural production in the spate
areas, but irrigation intensity in the state farms (groundwater irrigated
area) would probably have to be adjusted. However, if this were to result in
a lowering of the benefit stream in the groundwater irrigated area even by as
much as 25 percent, the sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic rate
of return for this component of the project would be lowered only to 13 per-
cent. This would not, however, significantly reduce the 24 percent economic
rate of return for the project as a whole since the major benefits are derived
from the spate areas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of special interest in the draft Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) signing of Loan Agreement between the Government and external co-financier;
(ii) appointment of Project Manager and two local counterparts; and (iii) exec-
ution and delivery of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and NBY.



- 22 -
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 1, 1978
Washington, D.C.



_ 23 -
ANNEX I
TASLE 3A
rEMEN PEOPLES OEM  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA  -THOU K-M2)-
TOTAL       338.1                 - -          YEMEN PEOPLES DEM REP                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (97O)
--- TO0-T-A-L -------3i38.1                             MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        1-]**                     1960       1970   ESTIMATE           SUOAN          EGYPT          SYRIAN ARAB REP.***
_  --- -- -- -- -- -- -- _-_- - - _-_- _- -    __ _ -------  - ----- -_ _-- -_- -- -__--_-_- ------ --- - - -_-- - _ -- - ----
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         ./. a   240.0/a*  280.0/a*           160c.  *   170.0*       450.0 *
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             1.1        1.5          .7/a            14.0        33.3         6.3
POPULATION DENSIIY
PER SQUARE KM.                         3.0        4.0       5.o/a               6.0        33.0        34.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            .    1364.0   1545.07a                46.0      1172.0        S6.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)          50.8      50.2       49.6                48.9        42.1        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           30.7       24.4      20.6                20.2        17.0        16.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..        ..       40.0                  .        1. 16.0      93.o
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       37.2       42.3       44.8                46.1        49.9        53.o
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE                 ..        3.5       3.5                 3.4         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                             3.4       2.7 /b              2.2/a       2.6         3.3
URBAN                                   ..         .          ..                s.5         3.6         s.O
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             ..         .-      35.3                11.3        42.1        43.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          ,,       39.8      47.3                45.0        44.0        46.0
tS TO 64 YEARS                          ..      55.6       47.6                52.0        52.0        50.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                       ..        4.6       0.1                 3.0         4.0         3.2
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                       .        0.8        1.1                0.9         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..        1.6/b     2.0/C              1i.s/b       1.7         2.S
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .          ..        ..                  ..       486.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..        ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           300.0     400.0      440.0             45QQ.0        300./a b l5oo.o/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          71.0      62.0       42.9                 .          53.0        49.o7a
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            9.0         ..         .                             3.0         6.4
INCOME DISTR;EBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLOS               ..         ..        ..                  ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..               49.2 /C
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..          .                 5.1 7        ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                14.5 7                    *
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
_- - -  - - -- - - -- -  - - - -- ----- - -
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS
HEALTH AND .4UTRIT ION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  .   32380.0  10750.0C               14200.0      1910.0      3880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                        .0                        1740.0      1640. 0/C   2730.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                     1980.0      860 .               9B30.0/d    460.0/    1701.0 
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)            ..       84.0      86.0                91.0        94.0       102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                         56.0       57.0                63.0        96.0        70.o
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                    37.0 /C                        24.0/e      16.0        16. 0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                          ..         ..                 ..          ..         4.1
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       13.0       61.0       79.0                33.0        69.0        89.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       5.0      10.0       19.0                              .0        a.o
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                       7.0        33.0        39.o
(FIRsT  AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0      12.0/d    12.0                 12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL -NROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        ..       30c         .                   ./         9030c
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                              .0/d    1LO                 15.0f       1  .         340/d
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUt                                                        2.5 /e
PIPED WATER (%)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                            36.0 /e,g
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                  *         - * -   22.0/d              26.0 . .
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                                          1.6/d
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            ..        4                                         2
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)                      2 .   .0                                 1 2  32.0   224.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                      133.0      107.0                  . .     228.0       151.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 .         0.1         .1                0.2N        1.0         0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE                                                                   ----



- 24 -
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 rolor co any year baetwee 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1966 and 1970 and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
aGNP per capita data are based on the World Bank stlas sethodology (1974-76 basis).
no  stinstod productitu agricultural land.
50 Syria 'a sfLaoiirity in arid climate with its heavy reIlanc   on rainfall for agricoItari production, the    portance of cotton ana  ajr export
crp, and tbe doninnt role of the governmet in the soonmny, all provide oaefu1 points of cnpe-ison with Ye-e  Peoples lIen. Rep.
YEMEN PEOPLES DEN. REP.        1960    Ia  under revision.
1970     Ia  Tentative data;    lb  Ratio of Pnpalation under 15 and 65 aad over to total labor force;    Ic  1964-66;
Id  Between 1965 end 1970, the drtoof secondary aduo..tlon oss reduce.d fron 7 cc 6 years.
MOST SLECENT fSTDIATE,       Ia  1976 (GMP data are tentative World Sank estimate);    lb  Dce to emigration, growth rate is
lower than rate of natural increase;          in  Rstio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
ctota  labor~ force;     Id  Data refer to population;         Is  1972.
SUD 0N                         1970     I   Doe to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rats of catora1 increaae;                   lb  Ratio  of population
under 15 and 65 and o-er to total labor force;            /c  1967-68;      Id! fov-mnet hoepi-ta1 establisnosnta;
Is1964-66;      If  Beginning 1970. the duration of general secondary education was reduced iron 9 to 6 years;
LaUrban only.
EGYPIr                ~~~1970   I   1966;    /b  Relatea  to 12 to 64 years of age;    /c  Regiatered, cot all practicing in the coc-try.
SYRIAN ARdBA..B  Z,o           1970    IaSyrian population onI,;            lb   .Includig  adwives, assiatant midwives and assistant n-rse;    Ic  1964-h6;
/d tecluding iTMReA schaooa.
R4, December 28, 1977
0flTh1flN1 OF SOCIAL INDICATOBtS
Land Area  ctho  kZ)                                                                           FP.oIatio. per numsia  perso   - Population divded by susthr of practtiovg
Total   Total surface area c aprieing lend area and im1aed weters.                               male and fesle graduae  uree  "trained" or '-crified' curses, and
ugri,. - Mos  recen  estiate of agricultcra1 area uaed temporarily or Perma-                     aniliary personnel  ith crsi.iog or eoperiecos.
neencly for -ropa. pasturen. narket & kitchen gordene or to lie fo.llo.                      Population par bosn ital bed - lInpulation divded by nonber of hospital beds
aveilble  cc puoblic and private general and ep-claised hoapital end
GNP Par c-nita (155  - GNP Per capita estimates at current 'nrker Prices.                         rbbiILitetion centerse;  euIde nursing homes and establiislm,ets  for
celnolated by same oo rir-tbhd aa World Sack Atlaa  (1973-75 basis);                           cuatoia1 and preventiv  care
1960; 197i  and 1975 dara.                                                                   per o-Pi. sunPIy of calries (7 . o  rnulressent.) - Cmspstd fire  enrgy
acvlrof net fon'd eupplsa avilableI in country par capita per day;
iconul.tioa and oltal statiutci                                                                  available ouppliss ceoprise dosentin production,  mports i... noporre. and
yocaro .id--ao  oillio)    a of July first:  if not  -vilabis, averge                      thange in otoci; not supplies encluda animal feed, seeds, qunttis  sd
of tw   md-yea  asLit.sce; 1 '60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                          in food processing and lasses in diatribution; requiremets ~are estimated
by FAO based on phyaLaloginal neds for norma  activity and health con.id-
Ponula-ion deanitn - oar socarn k. - Rid-yea  populatian per square klsater                       .ring seviroaentaL temprrsoure  body nights, ace and .es distributiona of
(150 beccareaf of total area.                                         ~~~~~population, sod allcviag 152 for users at hos-.hold leveL.
pooiaio deah            e   qaeh   farn.ln      optda   bw   o                                Per ceeits awenly of protein (er.sa  par day) - Pro.tei  canteen of par capita
agriccitural lend only.                                                                        se   upl   f fond par day; sat eupply of food is defised as above; require-
neot  for17 all countries etablished by USDA Etosneic Reisssrnh ServIc..
Vital atatisti-s                                                                                 provide for a simia  allowance of 60 grnas  of total protein per day, and
Crode birth rare oar thousard. averag- Aa,mul line birtha pee rhouaad of                          20 Srea of animal and pulse pr-nin, of uhioh IS gea ah-uId be animal
mid-year population; ten-year eritgstic  avrages ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; these standards are l-,e  than rhoos of 75 gro   of totel proteio
end fiv-near aveaendg is 1975 for -at recent estimate,                                         an 2g           f asimal proteina   am avrage for the acrld, propseed by rAO
Cruda destb re   re   huaa   vra       nuldab   a   huadof eid-yai   he Third World rood  ueSy.,
population; ten-year orithsetic  yavrages ending in 196f and 1970 and five-                  per capita epotein supply from animal And pulse - Protein supply of foad
yearavrage endIng ic 1975 for soar reme e.at.timaedrid Prs animal  end puia.a in grena  par dsy.
Inatmraiy  ss(  bc  -Ana   ets  fifmeudn   n   ero  ae                                         Dahrc I/ho)  se  I-4 -  --Ica  dathe per chousa..d in ae group 1-4
per thoacead ILiv  birth..                                                                     years, to childram  in this age group;  suggested as an indicator of
Life enecc...oY at birth (Tgr-) -  verege em.ber of yeers of life rsining at                     malnutrition.
birch; u_uall  fine- y-a veae  ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 far develop-
ing  -ostriaa.                                                                               Education
irons reeroducion rate -i-orage conher of ILiv  daughtac- a  aai  hear                          odluated enrollmentL rtio  eriar ochol-  nllntr of all ages as per-
In ber nnal rproductIonperiod if sh. esperiemues present age-specific                          cetag  of Tpimry hboob g  pcpuiacian2       ; mneIudes children aged 0-li yesfa
fertilitye ' rtes; o_cal   fiv--ye-   raveges ending io 1960, 1970 and 1975                    hut adjusted for different lengtha of primary  dotation; for countries with
foe developing countries.                                                                      coiversa  educotion, enrollment may ....ed 100% sines a-  pupils are balo
rb~oplation or_.i rats (1) - .tota  - Capand annua  growth rains o  mid-year                      or ahova the Officiel Schooi ag..
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 197U- 75.                                                Adloated enrollment ratio - secondary suhoo1 - Computad as shov; secondary
Ponulation ormh rae 1%    u         r -Coputed liba growth reta of t,etl                          ad .carian requires at leas.t four years of approvd primary inaittion;
population; diffrn  deiiin    f urb"anreas may affect coperability of                           providee general, vctiona  or tec..her training instroctione fEr pupils
dana aMag ceris                                                                                 of 12 to 17 yrsr  of age; correpondence c              rrsse   generally amluded.
Urban onuabn           ft.toel) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Tasoaholsorovided (first and second levels) - Total years of
defleltiona of urham areaa may effant ompatbiLoit, of dat.a  mog cowetria.                      ecoln;a   eonaylni,vntaa  imatrrutian may he partially or
oapletsiy seclded.
As srctr  (aoet  -  Ibldram  (0-lb years), *orking-age f15-64 years),                 foalnlerolet(1fucnds   -vsinaleiurosicoe
an.d retire  (615 years and oer) ae pe-oetages of mid-year payelacion                     ..tehia,indusria  oother prgr-s  which oparate  lodependetlyora
Aeo depe,ndeoc renao - Ratio of population ud-r 10 and AS and ove  to time                        departmnts of se ondary inetitoto.
of ages 15 throogh  A4 d-It lItrc   ee(.  iter...etadults  al   ora   ndwie   spr
foonic  epenenc  rtio  - Srtis of population  -nder 12 aed 65 and ovr to                     ceerage of total adult popule-ion aged 15 years and over.
the labor farce is age grouP of 15-A4 years.
fell, Ila.nie . - ..ancsos(unltv    thou) - 0u,1-acv  n-ber of sce-pt-s                       aea
of birth-control devices ondr auspices of national family planning prngn                      Psrsoaorre(ra)-Aeesnne   fprosprm    nompe
aince inception,                                                        conventional~~~~~.:u  :d    dwellings in u-bas areas; dwellings enolude  a-emsm
Penile nilns-users(7, nO mrridwnn       eenee   fmrid              _w=mo                 artse   and umooceplsd parcas
child-bearing age (15-i4 years) who  s  birch-cotrol devices to aLl married                  Ocuidd lnewtot niped waer') -Occcpisd conventional dwellings
wean Is os  age grouap.                                                                         Inubnadrua!ra   thou  inside or otside piped watar facilities
Totl lbo force   tha"sad) -E tonnaL-l1, active pmarsr, including armed                            ele-tricity In livn   qua!r.ter     'spreto  ttldelnsi  urbantand
foere and uneoedbut se lading houesiras   -tdec..              etc.  defioiti-,                 ualama
in yariou  cottris are mat oMepra.ble.                                                       Rurald-elins onnete  to electricity (2) - tspered as above for -rtr1
Labor fo;rce i   aelutr Mu  - LgrocaltraL labor farce (in frarine, forestry.                      dslinge only.
huningandfising   a  p.-nenag  of tonal labor force.
Unseltcad (2dt  labo1-r ferue   - Ufeeplyed are uauaIly defined as parsons who                 tonant I n
rar  abla and willing ts rake a Job, out of a job on a given day, ralmad our                  Radio receivers (ser than   op) - All types of receivers  Eor radio broadcasts
of.aJab, and seeking work.fsrespecifiedielsntsperIod nor emoe ding on                           t  geerl  ulic per thousand of PePulatias; e-oudes unIcensed receixer
sek; -ynt he   eprabl  hessncoutries due to different definitin                                 in countrie  and in years wham registration of radio sete waa In effect;
of usePlored and eanro  of data, e.g.,M eplapnt office statistius. , epl                        dat  for recent years may not ha comparable since.. ....         trs    holiehed
.u-nas,  ooepulsry anemploimat  Isuec.Licensing.
Peaar cars (en  tho  ro)    Pasnenger corn  oeprise motor c-rs seating
inca- dintrihbclon - Pernencage sf private l.oas  (both iv cash and bind)                         lees Rthao eight pershos; eaclude.s ebala.M.s, h.a.-.a and military
reevdb   ih-e  5%, richeat 20%, Poorest SO%, and poorest 40t of hous-                   vehicle..
holds.                                                                                        Electricity fkwh/.rr per ..e) - AnnuaI conaption  of lodnecrlal. caser,tial,
pblicaend pri-ats am1ntirity in hil.eat  bourn per -apira, generall1y
Dlstrbhctisn of land osnarhip - Per-etages of land ownd by wealth-lest lOt                        based oproducindt,wtotalwosfrlue   ngisbralw
and pooreat 10% of loand owes                                                                    n    or iPortsiand epata o  elecrict y f.r  o..i   rd     ~
Lag ferin (b/rpe.      a)     e  opra  nulcsneio   sIiorm
Realth aod Notrition                                                                              estimated fin  dommeic production pi-e net imports of  _n.aprint.
yonoletbon ne   hysiola- - PoPulatIon divided by o,ber of pr-ctliiN;
phscinqai fied fin. a mdical school atoierlnev.



ANNEX I
- 25 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1975
US$ mln   _
GNP at market prices                      411      100
Gross Investment                           81       20
Exports of goods & NFS                     35        9
Imports of goods & NFS                    177.      43     Annual Rate of Growth (X)
(constant 1974 prices)
1970/73            1974/75
GDP at factor cost                        314      100        3                  8
of which
Agriculture & fishing                  72       23        4                  6
Industry                               50      16        14                 17
Trade, Transport, finance              85      27        -6                  5
Other services                        107      34         5                  9
Calendar
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                      Fiscal Years Ending March 31          Year
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)             1970/71    1973/74    1974/75         1976
Current revenues                         14          15         19           25
Current expenditures                     17          23         28           39
Current deficit                          -3          -8         -9          -14
Development expenditures                  1          12         20           39
Overall deficit                          -4         -20        -29          -53
External financing                        2         11          13           31
Domestic financing (residual)             2.          9         16           22
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1970    1973    1974    1975    1976
(million Y.D. Outstanding end Period)
Money and quasi-money                    38      49       55      67       98
Bank credit to Government                 2      17       24      37       62
Bank credit to non-Gov't Sector 1/,    10        10       19      24       31
1/ Includes public sector agencies



ANNEX I
- 26 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)                 1970    1971    1972    1973       1974   1975   1976 1/
Domestic Exports, f.o.b. 21                       9        8      12       14          8      8      26
Retained Imports, c.l.f  2/                      93       85      88      118       179    171    280
Trade Deficit                                     -84      -77      -76    -104       -171   -168   -254
Invisibles, net                                    85       72      48       54         70     76    146
Workers' Remittances                             57       48     -27       33         41     56    115
Others                                           28       24      21       21        29      20      31
Balance on Current Account                          1       -5     -28      -50      -101    -87   -108
Official M & LT Capital, net                       13          -4    2                  49     41    104
Gross Disbursement                               14        6      2            8      9        4    106
Repayments                                       -1       -2       -        -          -      1      -2
IMF Transactions                                    4        3        3       -         19     20       -
Others, Including Errors and Omissions            -14       -2       12      21         18     20      -4
Changes in Gross Reserves                          -4        Q       8                  15      6       8
( -increase)
HERCHJUNDISE EXPORTS                                               Average 1975-76
US$ Million   Percent
Fish & Fish Products                                              8.8         52
Cotton                                                            5.9         35
Others                                                            2.2         13
TOTAL                     16.9       100
FOREIGN ASFETS,-Net   (December 31, 1976)
(Equivalent to about  8% of retained imports in 1976)    US$ 21 million
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1976)
US$ Million
External Fublic Debt Outstanding                                422.0
Of which:  Disbursed                                          226.1
Debt Service Payments 1976                                        0.2
Ratio of Debt Service to 1976 Exports of Goods
and Services, Including Remittances                   0.1 percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971          As of December 1971         As of February 1973
US$1.00 - YD 0.42  -            US$1.00 - YD 0.38           US$1.00 - 0.34
YD 1.00 - US$2.40               'D 1.00 - US$2.61           YD 1.00 - US$2.90
1/ Preliminary Estimate
2/  Net of re-exports                                                          January 15  1978
3/ Bank of Yemen



ANNEX II
- 27 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1977)
--------US$ Million--------
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.    Year   Borrower            Purpose           IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                        1.6                    -
370-YDR  1973      PDRY        Fisheries 1/           5.1                   1.2
494-YDR  1975      PDRY        Education              5.4                   4.7
560-YDR  1975      PDRY        Highways II 2/        15.5                   7.7
584-YDR  1976      PDRY        Aden Port Rehab.       3.2                   3.2
615-YDR  1976      PDRY        Wadi Hadramawt         7.0                   6.2
Total                                           37.8                  23.0
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                           37.8
Total undisbursed                                                     23.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1977)
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
1/   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
2/   Including US$0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



ANNEX II
- 28 -
C.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: US$3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1]978.
Due to delays in finding a suitable Project Manager, the original
credi t became effective only on F7ebruary 12, 1974. Since then, project imple-
mentation on the whole has been proceeding satisfactorily. A supervision mis-
sion in June 1974 reported that price and physical contingencies included in
the project were insufficient to cover increases in project cost, which were
mainly due to both foreign and domestic inflation. Since the scope of the
project could not reasonably be reduced and no other sources of financing were
available, the Association agreecl to a supplementary credit of $1.6 million to
cover the increased foreign cost of the project.  Civil works on the construc-
tion of shore facilities at Mukalla and Shihr are nearing completion and in-
stallation of refrigeration and processing equipment has begun. Fifty-three
of the 100 fishing boats financed under the credit have been completed in
local shipyards and contracts for the remaining forty-seven have been placed.
Twenty-six completed boats have been retained by PCFW and the rest delivered
to fishing cooperatives.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: US$5.4 Million of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date:  February 5, 1975; Closing Date:  September 30, 1979.
This credit will assist: the Government in making qualitative improve-
ments in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs. Implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily but is about 18 months behind appraisal
estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective and in
the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant architects and
(ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion.
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: US$15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project, financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development, comprises (a) construction of 358 km of roads between the
Wadi Hadramawt agricultural area and the coast, which were prepared under
Credit 240 and Engineering Credit S-12; (b) economic and engineering studies
for 320 km of roads (Nagabah-Atac[-Nissab-Beihan-Alayn); (c) purchase of main-
tenance equipment and spares; (d) technical assistance to the MPW, including
fellowships for MPW staff abroad; and (e) re-financing of Engineering Credit
S-12. Since international competitive bidding for the construction element
of the project did not lead to an acceptable bid, arrangements have been made
for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Construction and road maintenance equipment



ANNEX II
- 29 -
have been procured and construction of the Mukalla-Ashir-Sayun roads (358 km)
started in March 1976 is making satisfactory progress with approximately 33
percent of the civil works completed. Consultants to implement the technical
assistance component have been appointed and the overseas training program is
about to begin with the placement of 4 Yemeni engineers in a British university
and fellowship for another in Germany.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project: US$3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The Project provides for (a) floating equipment; (b) cargo-handling equipment;
(c) workshop equipment, spares and stocks; (d) diving team equipment; (e)
navigation, mooring and communications equipment; and (f) technical assis-
tance. The procurement consultant provided under the technical assistance
component of the project has completed the preparation of the tender documents
and orders for equipment financed under the Credit have been placed. Those
financed under the Arab Fund are now being reviewed. The two cost accountants,
a marine engineer and a training advisor are in the process of being recruited.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision of
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. Progress on the
project has been slow because of the difficulties encountered in locating
suitable expatriate candidates for the position of Project Manager, Irrigation
Engineer and Extensionists. The Project Manager and the Irrigation Engineer
have been appointed and are now on site. The appointment of the Extensionist
is expected soon. Orders for agricultural machinery have been placed and
tender documents are being prepared for agricultural supplies.



ANNEX III
- 30 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOC]RATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI TUBAN AGRICU]LTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementa:ry Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:              Government and FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:             January 1975
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:    May 1976 (FAO/IBRD CP)
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:             April 1977
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                 December 16, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              June 30, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness of the Development Credit are as follows:
(a)  Signing of loan agreement(s) between the Borrower and other co-
financier(s) for an amount of about US$6.1 million (paragraph 50).
(b)  Appointment of Project Manager and his two local counterparts
(paragraph 46).
(c)  Execution and delivery of- Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and NBY (paragraph 51).
2.   Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) to ban drilling of additional tube-wells, except the two proposed
under the project, in Wadi Tuban until the results of the water
management study includedl in the project are known and evaluated
(paragraph 52);



ANNEX III
(b) to raise by not later than March 1, 1979 rental rates and main-
tenance charges of the Machinery Renting Station (MRS) to cover
actual operation and maintenance costs of agricultural equipment
and pumpsets (paragraph 57);
(c) to review and readjust at regular intervals, not exceeding 3
years, rental rates of the M4RS so that maximum practical cost
recovery would be achieved (paragraph 57);
(d) to provide basic requirements of fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals in years two, three and four, and thereafter to continue
to procure and utilize in the project area, fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals of at least the quantity used in the last
year of project implementation (paragraph 44);
(e) to recover the investment costs of the irrigation system on the
state farms over a period of 20 years at an interest rate of 5
percent per annum (paragraph 57);
(f)  to provide financial assistance to MRS for repayment of subloans
and to provide funds for the future needed replacement of agri-
cultural equipment in the project area (paragraph 57); and
(g) to arrange for the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Public
Water Corporation (PWC), respectively, to maintain the water supply
facilities and feeder roads to be constructed under the project and
to ensure that water supply charges would be determined with a view
to covering operation and maintenance costs of the water works
(paragraph 57).
3.   The Delta Tuban Development Board (DTDB) would appoint, in consultation
with the Association, by August 31, 1978 four expatriate specialists to assist
with project implementation and assign to each at least one qualified local
agriculturist as counterpart (paragraph 46).






t AEI$Z RE?.  4rSRAEL/


 *\
o  -.               
' '- 
   /
p-I>    .                                   
m                  o  ______________________
>w   / _____
r       Z
/
/
-D
-                               o
(-,.
/1 \ : NNs,                                 -1
K
--N
m
C
I-
 
-                              rn
3                                                        rn
2
9               -.                N
0
)
'aco
>
m   0    m 2
2)J0
>2-, 2         - 
2 -< 4 -
-4 00      -   >     0
- 2
0 >    HO 
2Zo
w         > >                       
2   2      -  >    2  0
0 0        0                                          0
a
2
2'                C
2                C)
0                                                    3>
2                 2
2Lt-aaI






(2t                                                                                       PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
'U,)  7 ,-,AQ 9 400                                                          WADI TUBAN
KCaJ     ,,  ''" ,AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AWLREAffi/ V ( 1 ' , i. State Forms with Groundwater Irrigation;
ARAI
WE                                                                                                            ] To be Supplied with New Irrigation Works
-202( 41\ x ' -.'FIIIjYjlIITI No New Irrigation Works to be Supplied
<\  -/ )t                                                  0tf 7     Spate Irrigated Areas
'4.                                                                                      it 2--  .  Cooperative Farm Centers
.-,,n   Villages to be Provided with Water Supply
Proposed Water Mains
---"-E-'-- Eisting Water Mains
Proposed Onerhned Electricity Transmission Lines
Existing Overhead Electricity Transmission Linens
2,,
-'--Roads to be Constructed
r~EL     i '               " '-,> >"t                                                      Existing Surfaced Roads
CD    Bir Ahmed Water Works
2t#.-.Existing Diversion Weirs
20--2                                           "'       j        C"                                3lEIaa'-""-Rivers
NV             "'""'"X. ---                           '''' ~.-;  Sir Nosir Well Field
U  Tomato Paste Factory
-25-D  O  Cities, Toaes and Villages
Contours in Meters
'5~ . - <|mADN 
-~~ 7Cf . _ - -        s    f s= X t 9tg1   AW~ F4AR2M                                   0   1    2    3     4    S    6    7     a    9   10
"2~  K                                                                             IOMETERS
'a-~ ~            ~~~ tvyJA,-i   -'    .arm'                                                        &
.J '2                                            E' , _-'
SAP    ARA  tA  ,-"kMA                                                        R 
"-<,,  7 DEMOCRATIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
,   _  _,                  sf 4        rfl             ANIMA ~~~~~~~~~FARM X
REeLtC~-                 OF YEMEN])                                                  F 
-15                                                      __XX/SIfTH SE55IQN FARM                                                                                          -
A.~ r                                                                                                                                                            'AODR A
ms                             ""Ahmed<  VAR    ' v f                                           A
i  S; A fJCT I XA  A tX 1 A~ \,vfsOM A N\1 W.,k,                                           El\\HE IKH OTHMAN
X  s    ~    2;:  DEMAOCRAT I Cgg\V\
=T'Y E-ME N:                R E P U B L I C      f;V                                         <4                                     
-A :ROAB                     / OF   Y E M E N0 t  Xr
p        r                   IS  , a      fD I  -  J/dW  Z,       
Ar- .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_



