                                                                                           87074
                                                                                    CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                      EDS200 1-0299

                                                                                          June 18,2001
                                                                                           08:52:15 PM



Statement by Balmiki Prasad Singh
Date of Meeting: June 19, 200 I

 Romania (1) Countrv Assistance Strategv; and (2) Social Sector Development Project


         We thank the Management and Staff for the candid and comprehensive CAS for
Romania. We think that the CAS has quite accurately pinpointed Romania's development needs
and we particularly agree with the identified unfinished structural refom1 agenda (pages 9-11 ).
The problem, as always, is in the implementation of the agenda. Romania emerged in 1989 from
the Ceausescu dictatorship with the most distorted economic structure of any ex-Communist
state. It lags far behind its Central European neighbors not only in refom1s but also on almost
every macroeconomic indicator. Domestic policy is being increasingly driven by the desire for
EU accession. Under the circumstances, we welcome the CAS's mention of "partnership and
selectivity" with European agencies like the EU and the EBRD. We believe the Bank should let
the EU take the lead in setting the development agenda for Romania from the donor's
perspective.

Macro-economic overview

2.      Romania's GDP per head, at $1,500, is the lowest of all EU accession states. Inflation
remains at worrying levels. Consumer prices rose in the first quarter 2001, year on year, by over
40%. Some of this is due to higher excise duties and hikes in electricity prices, but the average
inflation forecast is 35% for this year. Export growth, which was a robust 24% in 2000, will slow
to 5.4% as EU demand for industrial inputs weakens. GDP growth is forecast to be 2.6% this
year, driven by private consumption and fuelled by inflationary wage rises. The key determinants
driving inflation in Romania are the high unit labor costs and, to a lesser extent, the exchange
rate. The deeply rooted fiscal indiscipline of state enterprises has been the key factor in driving
inflation to the highest level amongst all transition economies. The problem of reducing the
consolidated government budget deficit to 3% of GDP has been complicated by expenditure
commitments undertaken by the outgoing govemment under Mugur Isarescu in the run-up to the
elections to increase pensions and salaries to low-paid workers in the public sector.

       What is the Government of Romania's strategy to control inflation? What are the Staffs
views on the feasibility of controlling inflation in the near tem1?

Restructuring of public enterprises
                                                                   2




3.      It is still not clear whether the government has the necessary political will to tackle the
militant trade unions on the issue of labor sector reform. While some closures have been carried
out, notably in the coal industry, much remains to be done. The authorities fear civil unrest,
remembering the violent strikes of the early 1990s. Restructuring has also been delayed by
powerful vested interests, including trade unions, plant managers and bureaucrats. Also, there is
genuine concern about the impact of redundancies on some of Europe's poorest people.
Unemployment is already running at 15 per cent; a serious restmcturing program could push it
above 20 per cent. About 41 per cent of Romanians live below the official poverty line,
according to World Bank data. Uniquely in post-Communist Europe, agricultural employment is
rising as the jobless poor abandon the cities and return to the villages to till small plots. The
World Bank says agriculture's share of unemployment has risen from 28 per cent to 36 per cent.

        We find it surprising that the CAS makes no mention of the promotion of employment as
a development strategy. It is only through employment generation that the new initiatives will
have popular support. What are the Bank's view on this? What is the Bank's strategy for the
rcfonn of agriculture? What ESW is planned for Romania's agriculture sector which could lead
to both employment for the poor and enhancement of productivity in agriculture?

Privatization:

4.       An overhaul of privatization strategy is necessary. The main concern is to stamp out
corruption, which has dogged the process of effecting improvement in Romania, and has come in
the way of tightening contracts and needed supervision. The Government of Romania has a long
list of companies it wishes to privatize, including Banca Agricola, the farmers' bank, Sidex, the
steelworks which is Romania's largest industrial enterprise with 28,000 workers, and more than
60 other companies. Banca Commerciale Romana, the biggest bank, is also on the list for late
this year or early 2002. However, public trust must be rebuilt in the process. A particularly
notorious case is that of the state tobacco monopoly, which the government last year wanted to
sell to a local company called InterAgro for $ 67 million, in preference to Leaf Tobacco A
Michailides, an international consortium, which offered Dollars$ 167.5 million.

      The CAS makes no mention of any proposed reform of the privatization process m
Romania.

Pension reform:

5.      We welcome the proposed loan's efforts to reform the pension system, which is one of
the greatest challenges facing Romania. An estimated 1m of Romania's 4.5m workers are
employed producing little or nothing. Others have left work prematurely: Romania's average
retirement ages of 50 for women and 54 for men are among Europe's lowest. The number of
pensioners has doubled in a decade. The number of people on disability pensions has trebled. All
these people and their families are a hurden on the productive sector. It is carried, in part, by
some of the region's highest payroll taxes, which run at 60 per cent of the employee's pay and
are a significant barrier to job creation.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   3




        Reform of this complex system contains inherent political risks and a strong possibility of
popular backlash. A considerable amount of time and effort would be needed to communicate the
benefits of the new system and the unsustainability of the existing system. The project, we feel,
has not addressed these risks in a concrete fashion.

Social sector:

6.       Romania has emerged as one of the world's largest centers of trafficking in drugs,
prostitutes and migrants. There have been widespread concern about the treatment of the ethnic
minority Romas, the overwhelming majority of whom are poor. We are concerned at the lack of
attention in the CAS to the sharp deterioration in the social sector, in general, and in the
health-care system, in particular, in Romania. Romania's health-care system has deteriorated in
recent years, as hospitals have lost funding and expert staff as a result of public-spending cuts,
and is considerably below the standards of western Europe. Most households are unable to afford
private alternatives. Although the infant mortality rate has declined, from 26.9 deaths per I ,000
live births in I989 to I8.6 per 1,000 in 1999, it remains one of Europe's highest, and compares
with an average in east-central Europe of 13.7 per 1,000. Among east European countries outside
the CIS, only Albania and Macedonia have equivalent or higher infant mortality rates. The
maternal mortality rate, at 60 per I ,000 births, is six times that of Poland or Hungary and three
times that of Russia, according to UN figures. Romania's death rate is one of the highest in
eastern Europe (excluding the Commonwealth of Independent States, CIS), after Bulgaria,
Hungary and Estonia. Male life expectancy fell from 67 years in the early 1990s to 65 years in
1997, rising to 66.2 in 2000; female life expectancy stabilized in the 1990s at just over 73 years.
Health expenditure accounted for only 2.8% of GDP in 1998, compared with an EU average of
8.1% and an east- central European average of 5.5%. The number of reported cases of AIDS rose
from 1,683 in 1991 to 5,730 in 1998 (ofwhich5,040 were children, often infected in childcare
institutions), although this partly reflects improvements in the system of diagnosis. Up to 10% of
the population are reported to be carrying hepatitis B.

      The Board had approved a health sector reform project for Romania in June last year.
What has been the experience in implementation so far? What are the Bank's strategy for
improving health outcomes in Romania in the near to medium term?

7.        Subject to the remarks made above, we endorse the CAS and support the proposed Loan.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
