Report No. PID9325
Project Name                     Romania-Social Sector Development Loan (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Assistance; Labor Markets & Employment;
Pensions & Social Insurance
Project ID                       ROPE8783
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MMSS)
2, Demetru I, Dobrescu Str., Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Constantin Olteanu
Tel: 401-315-27-42
Fax: 401-315-54-56
Email: Colt@Mmss.Ro
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 16, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 19, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government has prepared a multi-year strategy (2000-03) for social
protection as part of a medium-term strategy required for EU Accession
with Bank and IMF endorsement. The main social protection elements of
this strategy are summarized below: Policy Development, M&E: The strategy
recognizes the importance of developing a coherent framework for the
development of policy in the various social protection fields. This need
is made more acute in the light of the tight fiscal constraints
confronting Romania and the need to maximize the impact within the tight
budgetary envelope available. The Government is already devolving service
delivery of social protection programs to semi-independent agencies. In
order to monitor and oversee effective service delivery, there is a
substantial need to improve M&E capacity in the core MMSS.     Moreover, the
recently elected Government has decided that it needs to address poverty
reduction more coherently. It has decided to create a Governmental
Commission for Poverty Prevention & Alleviation (GCPPA) subordinated to
the Office of The Prime Minister. The key functions of the GCPPA include:
(i) ex ante analysis of the poverty, income distribution and social policy
dimensions of all cabinet decisions; (ii) monitoring of poverty, both
quantitatively and qualitatively; (iii) evaluation of the poverty
reduction impact of Government and development partners programs, policies
and projects; and (iv) promotion of coherent and sustainable poverty
reduction initiatives. Pension Reform: The Government is committed to the
reform of the pension system, recognizing the unsustainability of the
current pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system. In April 2000, the Parliament
approved a new Pension law that introduces parametric reforms to this
first pillar and establishes a new administrative agency, the National
House of Pensions and Other Social Insurances Rights (CNPAS). The new law



creates a point system that bases the pension calculation on the average
salary earned by the worker during his or her whole career; lengthens the
working period for males and females; increases the retirement age; and
extends coverage to the self-employed. Moreover, the new institutional set
up is expected to improve collection efficiency and the delivery of
services to pensioners. Although the reform reduces such problematic
elements of the existing pension system as early retirement provision and
poor inter-generational equity, the new measures do not yet represent a
long-run solution. In order to make Romania's mandatory pension system
sustainable in the long-run, the Government is planning to introduce a
funded pillar to be privately managed. The new funded pillar will be
grounded on sound legal and regulatory principles, inter alia, strong
licensing requirements, separation of workers' assets from administrators,
and independent custodians. An independent pension supervision agency
with strong enforcement powers will be created.     The establishment of a
mandatory funded pillar will diversify the financing of workers' pensions,
thereby making retirement income more secure. Moreover, it will create a
pool of long-run savings and contribute to the development of capital
markets. During the initial years, the deficit in the public pillar will
rise as contributions are shifted to the second pillar (Annex 4), but the
initial transition deficits will be more than offset by the long-term
gains.  The level of the transition deficit will depend on the defined
cut-off age for joining the new mandatory system, and share of social
security contributions allocated to the second pillar. The Government
will be formulating a clear plan for phasing in the introduction of the
funded pillar in accordance with the new macroenomic stabilization
program, still under design. Romania's financial sector is not yet
robust. However, the completed structural adjustment operation, PSAL I,
and the proposed PSAL II, address the critical financial sector
underpinnings to foster the safe and sound investment of pension funds.
Thus, to ensure the successful implementation of the reform and minimize
risks, the timeplan for introducing the second pillar will need to be
consistent with the programs for macroeconomic stabilization and financial
sector strengthening, and the establishment of a well-fuctioning
administrative system for collecting and transferring contributions to the
private funds. The Government will conduct a public information campaign
to support the introduction of the reform. The campaign strategy is
comprehensive. It will inform the public at large on the overall reform
and will educate different stakeholders (workers, pensioners, and
employers) according to their specific needs.    Labor Market Adjustment:
The Government intends to focus more on promoting employment, believing
that the main reason for unemployment is due to depressed demand in the
economy, rather than frictional or structural elements. A key element in
this is improving the environment for business (supported by PSAL II),
small business assistance, small business incubators and micro-credit
finance. This thrust is consistent with the conclusions contained a
recent comprehensive study on unemployment entitled, "Social Assessment:
Unemployment in Romania" which states that the main reason for
unemployment is that the economy is not producing enough jobs and that
jobs will only be created through economic growth. Economic growth, of
course, is directly related to investment and significant investment will
not occur unless the correct macro economic conditions are in place.
Again this is beyond the realm of labor redeployment programs but the
government's intent to use such programs to help people become more
entrepreneurial is a move in the right direction. At the same time, the
- 2-



MMSS is developing new legislation to remove the employment disincentives
built into the unemployment insurance scheme and regulations around
severance pay. The old unemployment insurance scheme allowed claimants to
collect for up to 27 months (the last 18 months at a reduced rate). The
proposed scheme will provide lower a lower level of benefits (60 percent
of the minimum wage as opposed to the average wage over the last 3 months)
and a maximum collection period of 12 months. With respect to severance,
the Governments intent is that this would be paid by the state in only
rare circumstances (becoming the employer's responsibility) and when it is
paid, it will be paid in two installments. The second installment only
being paid when the recipient either finds employment or becomes
self-employed. The official unemployment rate as of December 2000, based
on the number of registered recipients of unemployment benefit, is 10.5
percent, or 1,007,131 individuals. Significant restructuring of SEs and
continued downsizing of the civil service and military will lead to even
further increases in unemployment. However, the Government is forecasting
robust economic growth of between 4.2 and 4.5 percent for 2001, and
similar values throughout the life of the SSD. If such growth occurs,
this should lead to job creation.    Labor Redeployment Program (LRP)
services: These programs are designed to help assist displaced workers to
move back into the labor force to increase overall productivity and
decrease use of income support payments. These services support, and need
to be coordinated with, income support payments. There is evidence that
labor redeployment programs can have a significant positive impact if
appropriately targeted and well run (e.g. services are demand driven and
delivered by service providers which have performance based contracts).
Services are normally used by about 33 percent of workers and are
relatively low-cost (e.g. averaging US$ 200 per worker) as compared with
income support payments. It should also be noted that while income
support payments are usually directed only to displaced workers, that
other affected workers (e.g. family members, secondary lay-offs) are
allowed access to redeployment services. This can help produce positive
social and political reactions to economic reform programs, at a
reasonably low cost. Romania is currently providing a range of these
services for the general unemployed, under the ESPP implemented by the
MMSS. Micro-credit: The credit markets in Romania are not well developed
and there are indications that the lack of credit is a significant
hindrance to the creation of micro-enterprises. An expansion of
micro-credit financing activities will have a direct impact on job
creation, especially when placed in conjunction with business incubator
services provided for under he SSD and business environment improvements
supported through PSAL and PIBL. Social Assistance Strengthening: The new
Law on Social Assistance envisages a major institutional reform of the
social assistance system. Responsibilities for social assistance, in
particular social service institutions, which are currently fragmented
across government agencies would be consolidated under the MMSS, thereby
reducing bureaucratic costs and the deadweight loss in benefit delivery.
The key issue for the reform of social assistance, remains the
establishment of an effective legislative framework for the system. The
MMSS has prepared two draft laws, a framework Law on Social Assistance and
a Law on the MIG. Both Laws have important objectives including most
significantly: (i) the consolidation and rationalization of institutional
responsibilities for social assistance, which are currently fragmented
across government agencies; and (ii) strengthening of the main social
safety net program, the MIG. Submission to Parliament of both Laws
- 3 -



satisfactory to the Bank, is included as conditionality under the PSAL II
loan. The main policy focus of the reforms is the need close gaps in the
safety net through the strengthening of the MIG, the Government's main
means-tested income support program. The program, which was introduced in
1995, has proven ill-suited to meeting its poverty alleviation goals.
Analysis of Living Standards Measurement System survey data from 1997 and
1998 indicate major weaknesses in coverage, targeting, benefit adequacy
and sustainability of financing.    Coverage under the program is
exceptionally low and has fallen during the three years of program
implementation. The number of households receiving benefits each month
fell dramatically from 184,000 in 1996 to 49,000 in 1998, benefiting less
than 1 percent of households in Romania. The real value of benefits also
plummeted during the same period, falling to 55 percent of 1995 levels.
Benefit levels are also low, amounting to an average of 12.2 percent of
average net wages in 1998. Analysis suggests that the currently radically
underfunded MIG has negligible poverty alleviation impact. Between 1995
and 1997 the rise in the poverty headcount that would result in the
absence of all social assistance spending would be less than one-half of a
percentage point. The MIG also suffers from a number of serious problems
resulting from the decentralized nature of the program. The program is
administered and financed locally and, as a result, is subject to the
discretion of municipal officials. Decisions regarding whether benefits
are paid or not, their level and eligibility criteria are made entirely at
the local level. This has fueled the decline in coverage, as municipal
budgets have been increasingly constrained, and in many municipalities
(often the poorest areas with greatest need) the MIG has gone unpaid.
Expenditures on the program are extremely low, amounting to 0.05 percent
of GDP in 1997. Under the PSAL II the Government propose to raise this to
0.4 percent of GDP and finance it from the central budget.
2. Objectives
The project development objective of the Social Sector Development
Project (SSD) is to contribute towards increased economic growth and
poverty reduction through: (i) improving policy development, monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) in both poverty and social protection; (ii)
supporting a multi-pillar pension reform; (iii) facilitating labor market
adjustment and micro-business development; and (iv) strengthening the
social assistance system.     The  SSD will also contribute towards
Romania's development agenda, namely: (a) European Union (EU) Accession -
through modernizing the labor market; (b) ongoing structural reform (as
embodied in the Private Sector Adjustment Loan II - PSAL II) - through
support to labor redeployment in state owned enterprises, public
administration and military sectors; and (c) reducing poverty - through
strengthening the social safety-net. The SSD builds upon the ongoing
Employment & Social Protection Project (ESPP), ensuring the continuity and
deepening of the reforms and programs established under it. The SSD is a
key instrument in helping the Government implement the social protection
aspects of its medium-term economic strategy approved in 2000, endorsed by
all major political parties, the EU, World Bank and the IMF.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has developed a very fruitful relationship with the MMSS over
the last 5 years through the implementation of the ESPP (ongoing), the
Social Protection Adjustment Loan and policy elements in PSAL I and the
proposed PSAL II. The Bank has become by far the largest financier of
-4 -



social protection programs and enjoys the confidence of the senior policy
makers in the MMSS. Now that the Government is poised to pursue more
comprehensive reforms in pensions, social assistance and labor market
adjustment, the Bank can bring the lessons learnt together with best
international practice oriented by the ECA Social Protection Strategy.
The Bank will pay special attention to adding value in terms of
strengthening M&E, rational and affordable policy design and building up
institutional delivery capacity. The Bank has also mobilized additional
donor grant resources to help finance activities within the framework of
the SSD.
4. Description
The SSD will enhance the effectiveness of key social protection programs
in Romania, increasing their fiscal affordability and contributing to
poverty reduction and economic growth. The project has four components
which are summarized below:
I.   Policy Development, M&E
II. Pension Reform
III. Labor Market Adjustment
IV. Social Assistance Strengthening
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 105.03
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a period of
4.25 years from October 2001 to December 2005, with the loan closing in
June 2006. Executing Agencies: The project will be managed by the
existing PCU (established under the ESPP) within the MMSS. The MMSS would
implement the Policy Development, M&E and Social Assistance Strengthening
components directly under the administration of the Minister. The Pension
Reform component would be implemented by the recently established CNPAS
and the planned PSC. The Labor Market Adjustment component would be
implemented by the experienced ANOF. A Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) comprised of high-level representatives from all these agencies plus
representatives from the Ministry of Public Finance (MFP), Ministry of
Public Administration (MAP), Ministry of National Defence (MAN) and GCPPA
would provide oversight and policy guidance for project implementation.
Beneficiary Involvement: Beneficiaries/stakeholders are already
represented in the oversight boards of some agencies (e.g. trade unions
and employers federations in the case of the ANOF). Discussion is already
underway on the nature of the representation of these stakeholders in the
case of the CNPAS and the DSA. Regular beneficiary assessments and
analysis thereof would be undertaken through Component I. Financial
Management: The PMU will be responsible for the project's overall
financial management system. All procurement, financial management and
disbursement procedures for the Project will be in accordance with the
relevant Bank guidelines. This unit will require to be fully staffed and
have financial management and accounting systems in place acceptable to
the Bank, prior to Board presentation. The Government will establish and
will maintain a project financial management system (FMS) in a format
acceptable to the Bank and satisfying the LACI requirements. A financial
management consultant (firm) will be appointed to develop the financial
management system for the project, in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP
- 5 -



10.02 and LACI requirements. Such a system will feature a customized
accounting software fully developed to respond to the Project specifics.
The accountant and the finance manager will be the primary operators of
the software, with the PMU director responsible for authorizing all
payments. The procurement specialist will have limited rights to access
the software on procurement related aspects. The appropriate training
will be provided to the PMU staff and maintenance of the software will be
assured by the consultant (firm). The consultant, together with PMU
staff, will develop specific chart of accounts, detailed financial
statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control procedures,
disbursement and flow of funds arrangements, assigned staff
responsibilities in order to ensure a complete segregation of duties,
using the existing Project's OM. The PMU will be fully in charge of
consolidating all payments, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
reporting, accounting, planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the
Project. No Project funds (including Loan amounts) can be transferred
directly to beneficiaries or any other parties, outside the Project's
documented framework. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project
component and its sub-components. The accounts will also reflect: the
status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special
Account and replenishments made by the Bank; and statements of sources and
application of funds.    The PMU will prepare reports showing detailed
budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary of
withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the
objectives for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The PMU will submit
the Project Management Reports (PMRs) to the Bank from September 30, 2001
and quarterly thereafter. A Special Account will be opened at a
commercial bank, acceptable to the WB. Government contribution will be
received through the budgetary systems of the relevant entities (State
Budget, Unemployment Budget and Pension Budget, respectively). The PMU
must have financial management and accounting systems in place, acceptable
to the Bank, before Bank Board date. A World Bank certified FMS will
verify that an adequate financial system is in place and issue the
relevant FM LACI certification. The PMU will maintain the project accounts
in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and/or
Romanian Accounting Standards (RAS). Each project implementing entity
will submit quarterly reports and accounts to the PMU. The PMU will be
responsible for preparing PMRs and statements of expenses (SOEs) and
submitting them to the World Bank. During project negotiations, agreement
will be reached with the Government on the recruitment of a suitable
number of financial and accounting staff to strengthen the capacity of
the PMU. The financial and accounting department of the PMU will be
headed by a finance manager (or chief accountant). A number of
accountants will work under the close supervision of the finance manager.
The training needs of the PMU financial management and accounting staff
will be assessed once the PMU staff is appointed. The PMU will have the
project accounts audited (including special accounts and all statements of
expenditures) in accordance with IAS, by a firm of independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Recruitment
of such a firm on a yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory
performance) and all the related steps are mentioned in the Financial
Management Action Plan. This audit may be contracted together with the
audit of the ESPP. Audit reports and management letters for all project
implementing entities and the PMU will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. A detailed description of the
- 6 -



financial management and accounting system that will be used for the
project is presented in Annex 16.     M&E:  M&E, including qualitative
beneficiary assessment of all of the project activities would be
undertaken by the PMU supported under Component I of the project.
7. Sustainability
Overall the SSD is designed to increase the sustainability of the core
social protection programs in Romania. I. Policy Development, M&E: This
component will introduce stronger economic and social analysis in social
protection policy design. Sustainability, affordability and
cost-effectiveness of programs will be key elements in policy design and
M&E. If implemented as intended, this component would contribute towards
the sustainability of the social protection system as a whole.     II.
Pension Reform: The current PAYG system is not sustainable over the
long-term, hence the need for further reforms. The recent parametric
reforms go some way, but additional improvements are necessary. The
second-pillar reform imposes substantial transition costs in the first few
years (Annex 4).    Thereafter, the state budget burden for pensions will
diminish due to the cumulative impact of the PAYG reforms and higher
collection yield and, over the long-term, due to the increased importance
of the funded pillar. A critical decision to proceed with the
implementation of the second pillar is a satisfactory financing plan,
coupled with appropriately stable macroeconomic conditions and adequate
capital market supervision - the latter will be enhanced through reforms
supported by PSAL II.     III.  Labor Market Adjustment:   A properly
functioning LRP is an investment to help in smoothing the transfer of
workers from declining sectors to alternative more productive activities.
While the LRP will be required into the foreseeable future, there will be
a particularly heavy demand on its services during the period 2001-04.
Thereafter, as the greater part of the transition is completed, and
assuming economic recovery with increasing employment levels, it may
become possible to finance the reduced level of LRP activities from the
Unemployment Fund managed by the ANOF. IV. Social Assistance Reform:
Social assistance will continue to depend upon a political decision to
finance it adequately. Prior to 2001, it was totally underfunded,
mismanaged and ineffective. The new Government has committed to
allocating 0.4 percent of GDP to the MIG and centralizing the financing of
the program through earmarked transfers to local councils. The SSD thus
aims to increase the cost-effectiveness of social assistance which should
likewise increase the political determination to maintain an adequate
funding level to provide a safety-net against extreme poverty.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The SSD draws extensively upon the experience obtained through the
implementation of the ESPP (ESPP) and the experience with the Romania
portfolio (Romania) more generally . The design has been based upon the
lessons learnt and experience gained from and other projects in Romania,
as well as social protection projects more widely (global). It is totally
consistent with the ECA Social Protection Strategy. The main lessons
learnt, with source in parentheses, and incorporated into the SSD are
summarized below:Comprehensive social protection approach: There are
great synergies to be obtained across the different elements of social
protection - a fiscally affordable pension system requires a sound labor
market which requires a safety-net for those unable to make it in the
market economy (strategy, ESPP). The SSD explicitly covers reforms and
- 7 -



programs in all the three main areas covered by the strategy and
synthesizes this through Component I, Policy Development, M&E.Shift from
TA to institutional development: Traditional TA has often been wasted and
failed to make meaningful institutional change (ESPP, Romania, global).
SSD will thus de-emphasize traditional TA, and look at possible twining
arrangements particularly with similar institutions in the EU, which will
both provide ongoing on-call technical advice from operatives and develop
stronger institutional linkages for EU Accession.Policy implementation is
as important as design: Even the best policy design can be undone by poor
implementation (Romania, ESPP, global). Sound policy is a must, and this
is being supported by PSAL II. However, sound policy requires strong
implementation and the SSD is designed to increase the quality of
implementation by the MMSS.Strong local ownership: Projects will only be
implemented effectively if there is strong real local ownership (Romania,
global). The project will be developed in the closest collaboration with
the MMSS. An identification workshop was already held in early February
with the MMSS.Involve stakeholders: Stakeholder views and inputs must be
incorporated constantly into the project design if it is to respond to the
real needs of the proposed beneficiaries (global, Romania). Good progress
has been made in obtaining the views of redundant workers both
participants and non-participants. Trade unions were included in the
identification workshop. The LSSD ESW is providing solid beneficiary
assessment data on the non-functionality of the existing social assistance
system. Further efforts are needed regarding pensioners, employers and
representatives across the political spectrum - all of this is further
complicated by the upcoming election process. The Bank will discuss with
the Government more direct representation of these stakeholders in the
oversight of the project itself.Keep projects simple: The most common
cause of project failure is complexity (global). The SSD is intrinsically
complex. Great attention will be given during preparation to keep it as
simple as possible, reviewing each sub-component carefully and trying to
get other donors to finance entire sub-components.Centrality of M&E: M&E
of social protection programs and projects has been inadequate (global,
strategy) in many lending operations within SP and in Romania (ESPP).
Institutionalizing M&E across the entire social protection spectrum is
cental to and one of the areas of real value-added of the SSD for
Romania.Coordinated informatics:   Informatics systems must be able to
communicate with one another with a friendly user interface and should
only be introduced after existing manual informations systems and
processes have been streamlined (global, ESPP). The project will support
the ongoing streamlining of processes and information systems in the MMSS
and integrate the informatics systems for the CNPAS, ANOF and DSA together
- a process commenced under the ESPP.Precede pension reform with
institutional development: Pension reform requires sound executing
agencies to implement, supervise and regulate multi-pillar pension
reform. This must be in place before such reforms are implemented
(global, strategy, ESPP). The initial thrust of the SSD is to build-up
the CNPAS and PSC in anticipation of the introduction of pillars 2 and 3
when macroeconomic, fiscal and capital market conditions permit.Focus more
attention on labor markets and social assistance: In ECA, social
protection has tended to focus more upon, and made more progress in,
pension reform - more attention needs to be given to labor markets and
social assistance (strategy). In terms of finance, the largest component
in SSD is in the labor market area. Possibly the greatest value-added,
but most challenging component is that for social assistance. Pension
- 8 -



reform, including modeling is not being neglected however.Well designed
and executed active labor market program (ALMP) can have a positive
impact: Well designed and well executed ALMPs such as the Romanian LRP
can help in the redeployment of labor and reduce the social costs of
transition (ESPP, strategy, PSAL I). The LRP will continue to be financed
with strict M&E, and with a 30 percent cap on public works programs. The
LRP is shifting towards more direct interventions to promote
micro-businesses support by policy reform under PSAL II. Strengthen local
government capacity in social assistance: Local governments in Romania
have the greatest responsibility in delivering, targeting and, currently,
financing social assistance benefits and programs. As a result, staff from
local governments need to be involved in reform. The project will address
this through close linkages between the MMSS and the MAP, to improve the
accountability and responsiveness of services. Training programs will
involve local governments and pilot activities will experiment with
innovative arrangements for local governments to work with NGOs and other
civil society organizations.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   There are no significant environmental issues.
All necessary precautions will be taken to ensure that potentially toxic
substances such as asbestos or lead from paint will be handled in a safe
and environmentally sound manner. Furthermore, the construction plan will
take steps to minimize waste, dust, and debris from construction and to
safely dispose of construction wastes. Only licensed contractors will
undertake such contracts. Romanian environmental laws and requirements
are compatible with the Bank's policies and those of EU.     Fully-fledged
environmental assessment are not applicable in the case of sub-projects
implemented under the SSD project. Projects entailing rehabilitation,
maintenance and upgrading usually will have much more limited impacts, but
may require attention to existing environmental problems at the site.
Therefore, an environmental screening (inspection) may be useful in
fulfilling the environmental assessment needs for such projects. The aim
of environmental inspection at PMU level is twofold: (i) to ensure that
sub-projects with negative environmental impact are not financed, and (ii)
to ensure that approved sub-projects are implemented in an environmentally
acceptable manner. The environmental inspections will be initiated by the
PMU. Normally, potential environmental impacts are identified early
during the review of the proposal for a sub-project. For projects under
implementation the environmental inspection will complement the check for
compliance with national environmental legislation. The process will
include a detailed review of the technical proposal (specification) for
small works with respect to defining the type and scale of the potential
environmental impact and risk. The sample questionnaire for the review
would address the following.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
John A. Innes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
9



Telephone:   (202) 473-5826
Fax:   (202) 477-3387
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 10 -



