Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22130-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.00 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FORA
SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 2001
Human Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 11, 2001)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei (ROL)
ROL I = US$0.0000352
US$1 = ROL 28,412
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJOF       Judets Agency for Employment
ALMP       Active Labor Market Program
ANOF       National Agency for Employment
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CGAS       Governmental Anti-Poverty Commission
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
CJPAS      Judets House of Pensions & Other Social Insurance Rights
CNFPA      National Adult Training Board
CNPAS    National House of Pensions & Other Social Insurance Rights
DSA        Department of Social Assistance
ESPP       Employment and Social Protection Project
IT        Information Technology
LRP        Labor Redeployment Program
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MAN        Ministry of National Defense
MAP        Ministry of Public Administration
MFP        Ministry of Public Finance
MIG        Minimum Guaranteed Income
MIS        Management Information System
MMSS       Ministry of Labor & Social Solidarity
MTSAB    Means-tested Social Assistance Benefits
PAYG       Pay-as-you-go
PCC        Project Coordination Commitee
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PIBL       Private Sector Institution Building Loan
PMR        Project Management Report
POM        Project Operational Manual
PSAL       Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PSC        Pension Supervision Commission
SE         State-owned enterprise
SIU        Statistics & Informatics Unit
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Michal J. Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    John A. Innes



ROMANIA
SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       13
3. Benefits and target population                                                      13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            21
2. Financial                                                                           22
3. Technical                                                                           23
4. Institutional                                                                       23
5. Environmental                                                                       26
6. Social                                                                              27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     28
2. Critical risks                                                                      29



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     30
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            31
2. Other                                                                              31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          32
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         53
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                               54
Annex 5: Financial Sunmmary                                                              72
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       73
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    93
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   94
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 95
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           97
Annex 11: LRP - Principles and Criteria                                                 99
Annex 12: Principles and Criteria - Micro-Credit                                        104
Annex 13: Institutional Analysis of the MMSS                                            105
Annex 14: Governmental Anti-Poverty Commission - CGAS                                   113
MAP(S)
IBRD 28710



ROMANIA
Social Sector Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 18, 2001                                 Team Leader: John A. Innes
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink        Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P008783                                Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance, SE - Labor Markets &
Employment, SI - Pensions & Social Insurance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Development; Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     f ] Credit    [ Grant      r Guarantee       [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 50.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 4                           Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75 %                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        19.40           2.08          21.48
IBRD                                                            35.09          14.91          50.00
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                        0.58           0.00           0.58
BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                             0.64           0.33           0.97
DEVELOPMENT
EC-PHARE -- EC PROGRAM FOR CENTRAL EUROPE                        3.72           0.98           4.70
Total:                                                          59.43          18.30          77.73
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MMSS)
Address: 2, Demetru f, Dobrescu Str., Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Constantin Olteanu
Tel: 401-315-27-42                 Fax: 401-315-54-56                Email: Colt@Mmss.Ro
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
__~~~~T         -                              2_0 ~ 26 .......
Fy         2002     _ 2003        2004      2005  _ 200
Annual{   1.00        14.00      17.00      12.00      6 00
Cumulative    1.00       15.00      32.00      44.00      50.00
Project implementation period: October 1, 2001 to December 31, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
005 PAL/,  Ynr l0P   O IR..I 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective of the Social Sector Development Project (SSD) is to
contribute towards increased economic growth and poverty reduction through: (i) improving
policy development, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in both poverty and social protection; (ii)
supporting social insurance system reform, including a multi-pillar pension reforn; (iii) facilitating
labor market adjustment and micro-business development; and (iv) strengthening the social
assistance system.
The SSD will also contribute towards Romania's development agenda, namely: (a)
European Union (EU) Accession - through modernizing the labor market; (b) ongoing
structural reform (as embodied in the proposed Private Sector Adjustrnent Loan 11 - PSAL 11) -
through support to labor redeployment in state owned enterprises, public administration and
military sectors; and (c) reducing poverty - through strengthening the social safety-net. The
SSD builds upon the ongoing Employment & Social Protection Project (ESPP), ensuring the
continuity and deepening of the reforms and programs established under it. The SSD is a key
instrument in helping the Government implement the social protection aspects of its medium-term
economic strategy approved in 2000, endorsed by all major political parties, the EU, World Bank
and the IMF.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key perfornance indicators (per project component) are:
I. Policy Development, M&E
Poverty policy M&E unit established
Poverty assessments completed
M&E studies undertaken
II. Social Insurance System Reform
Increased collection yield
Improved targeting of pension payments and actuarial performance
Improved pension administration
Sound regulation and supervision of private pension funds
Private pension funds accumulated as a savings base
III. Labor Market Adjustment
Number of workers participating in Labor Redeployment Program (LRP)
Placement Rates of the LRP
Micro-businesses started and jobs created
IV. Social Assistance Strengthening
Share of GDP spent on Minimum Income Guaranteed (MIG)
Number of social assistance workers achieving professional competence
- 2 -



Beneficiary assessments (satisfaction survey)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22180-RO       Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/14/01
The proposed Bank Group CAS for FY02-04 focuses on the broad themes of poverty
reduction and support for EU accession. Poverty reduction is the core of the program and is
centered on the delivery of social services and revitalization of the rural economy.   Many of
those affected by poverty would be lifted above the poverty line by only a marginal increase in
their incomes, which should be achieved if the country sustains the current economic recovery and
workers are facilitated in finding new employment. However, there are other groups living in
deeper and longer-term poverty, especially those living in rural areas, children, women, and ethnic
minorities, such as the Roma, for whom poverty rates are more than twice the national average.
Thus the proposed Bank CAS pays special attention to the those in deep and long-term poverty,
without ignoring those in marginal poverty and the near-poor. The SSD responds to both of
these population groups through the strengthening and rationalization of social protection
programs is given a high priority both in terms of protecting the poor during transition, but also in
increasing the efficiency of the economy through improvements in the labor market and in
stabilizing the fiscal situation of key social protection programs such as pensions.
This the SSD supports these proposed CAS objectives in the following ways:
1. Short-term. The SSD will build up the necessary capacity to implement pension
reform and supervise the pension system. Immediate support will be given to a menu of services
to help in the redeployment of workers being made redundant as a result of restructuring within
the enterprise sector, public administration, and military downsizing. Prototypes for improved
social assistance delivery, targeting and management will be developed.
2. Medium to long-term. The SSD will enhance policy making, including the monitoring
and evaluation thereof, across the entire spectrum of social protection. After an initial transition
period, the pension reform will not only result in a more diversified and secure pension for future
retirees, but will start to have a positive net fiscal impact and contribute to long-term savings.
Improvements in adult education will contribute towards life-long learning and the ability of
workers to upgrade their skills as Romania prepares to enter the EU. Social assistance would
become more cost-effective, with lower administrative costs through program rationalization, and
will be more effectively targeted to the poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government has prepared a multi-year strategy (2000-03) for social protection as part
of a medium-term strategy required for EU Accession with Bank and IMF endorsement. The
main social protection elements of this strategy are summarized below:
Policy Development, M&E: The strategy recognizes the importance of developing a
coherent framework for the development of policy in the various social protection fields. This
need is made more acute in the light of the tight fiscal constraints confronting Romania and the
- 3 -



need to maximize the impact within the tight budgetary envelope available. The Government is
already devolving service delivery of social protection programs to semi-independent agencies. In
order to monitor and oversee effective service delivery, there is a substantial need to improve
M&E capacity in the core MMSS.
Moreover, the recently elected Government has decided that it needs to address poverty
reduction more coherently. It has created a Governmental Anti-Poverty Commission (CGAS)
subordinated to the Office of The Prime Minister. The key functions of the CGAS include: (i) ex
ante analysis of the poverty, income distribution and social policy dimensions of all cabinet
decisions; (ii) monitoring of poverty, both quantitatively and qualitatively; (iii) evaluation of the
poverty reduction impact of Government and development partners programs, policies and
projects; and (iv) promotion of coherent and sustainable poverty reduction initiatives.
Social Insurance System Reform: The Government is committed to the reform of the
pension system, recognizing the unsustainability of the current pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system. In
April 2000, the Parliament approved a new Pension law that introduces parametric reforms to this
first pillar and establishes a new administrative agency, the National House of Pensions and Other
Social Insurance Rights (CNPAS). The new law creates a point system that bases the pension
calculation on the average salary earned by the worker during his or her whole career; lengthens
the working period for males and females; increases the retirement age; and extends coverage to
the self-employed. Moreover, the new institutional set up is expected to improve collection
efficiency and the delivery of services to pensioners.
Although the reforn reduces such problematic elements of the existing pension system as
early retirement provision and poor inter-generational equity, the new measures do not yet
represent a long-run solution. In order to make Romania's mandatory pension system sustainable
in the long-run, the Government is planning to introduce a funded pillar to be privately managed.
The new funded pillar will be grounded on sound legal and regulatory principles, inter alia, strong
licensing requirements, separation of workers' assets from administrators, and independent
custodians. An independent pension supervision agency with strong enforcement powers will be
created.
The establishment of a mandatory funded pillar will diversify the financing of workers'
pensions, thereby making retirement income more secure. Moreover, it will create a pool of
long-run savings and contribute to the development of capital markets. During the initial years,
the deficit in the public pillar will rise as contributions are shifted to the second pillar (Annex 4),
but the initial transition deficits will be more than offset by the long-term gains. The level of the
transition deficit will depend on the defined cut-off age for joining the new mandatory system, and
share of social security contributions allocated to the second pillar. The Government will be
formulating a clear plan for phasing in the introduction of the funded pillar in accordance with the
new macroeconomic stabilization program, still under design. Romania's financial sector is not yet
robust. However, the completed structural adjustment operation, PSAL I, and the proposed
PSAL II, address the critical financial sector underpinnings to foster the safe and sound
investment of pension funds.
-4 -



Thus, to ensure the successful implementation of the reform and minimize risks, the
timeplan for introducing the second pillar will need to be consistent with the programs for
macroeconomic stabilization and financial sector strengthening, and the establishment of a
well-functioning administrative system for collecting and transferring contributions to the private
funds. The Government will conduct a public information campaign to support the introduction
of the reform. The campaign strategy is comprehensive. It will inform the public at large on the
overall reform and will educate different stakeholders (workers, pensioners, and employers)
according to their specific needs.
Labor Market Adjustment: The Government intends to focus more on promoting
employment, believing that the main reason for unemployment is due to depressed demand in the
economy, rather than frictional or structural elements. A key element in this is improving the
environment for business (supported by the proposed PSAL II), small business assistance, small
business incubators and micro-credit finance.
At the same time, the MMSS is developing new legislation to remove the employment
disincentives built into the unemployment insurance scheme and regulations around severance
pay. The old unemployment insurance scheme allowed claimants to collect for up to 27 months
(the last 18 months at a reduced rate). The proposed scheme will provide lower a lower level of
benefits (60 percent of the minimum wage as opposed to the average wage over the last 3
months) and a maximum collection period of 12 months. With respect to severance, the
Governments intent is that this would be paid by the state in only rare circumstances (becoming
the employer's responsibility) and when it is paid, it will be paid in two installments. The second
installment only being paid when the recipient either finds employment or becomes self-employed.
The official unemployment rate as of December 2000, based on the number of registered
recipients of unemployment benefit, was 10.5 percent, or 1,007,131 individuals. Significant
restructuring of state-owned enterprises and continued downsizing of the civil service and military
will lead to even further increases in unemployment. However, the Government is forecasting
robust economic growth of between 4.2 and 4.5 percent for 2001, and similar values throughout
the life of the SSD. If such growth occurs, this should lead to job creation.
0  Labor Redeployment Program (LRP) services: These programs are designed to help
assist displaced workers to move back into the labor force to increase overall productivity
and decrease use of income support payments. These services support, and need to be
coordinated with, income support payments. There is evidence that labor redeployment
programs can have a significant positive impact if appropriately targeted and well run (e.g.
services are demand driven and delivered by service providers which have performance
based contracts). Services are normally used by about 33 percent of workers and are
relatively low-cost (e.g. averaging US$ 200 per worker) as compared with income support
payments. It should also be noted that while income support payments are usually
directed only to displaced workers, that other affected workers (e.g. family members,
secondary lay-offs) are allowed access to redeployment services. This can help produce
positive social and political reactions to economic reform programs, at a reasonably low
cost. Romania is currently providing a range of these services for the general unemployed,
under the ESPP implemented by the MMSS.
- 5-



*  Micro-credit: The credit markets in Romania are not well developed and there are
indications that the lack of credit is a significant hindrance to the creation of
micro-enterprises. An expansion of micro-credit financing activities will have a direct
impact on job creation, especially when placed in conjunction with business incubator
services provided for under the SSD and business environment improvements supported
through PSAL and PIBL.
Social Assistance Strengthening: The new Law on Social Assistance envisages a major
institutional reform of the social assistance system. Responsibilities for social assistance, in
particular social service institutions, which are currently fragmented across government agencies
would be consolidated under the MMSS, thereby reducing bureaucratic costs and the deadweight
loss in benefit delivery.   The key issue for the reform of social assistance, remains the
establishment of an effective legislative framework for the system. The MMSS has prepared two
draft laws, a framework Law on Social Assistance and a Law on the MIG. Both Laws have
important objectives including most significantly: (i) the consolidation and rationalization of
institutional responsibilities for social assistance, which are currently fragmented across
government agencies; and (ii) strengthening of the main social safety net program, the MIG.
Submission to Parliament of both Laws satisfactory to the Bank, is included as conditionality
under the proposed PSAL II loan.
The main policy focus of the reforms is the need close gaps in the safety net through the
strengthening of the MIG, the Government's main means-tested income support program. The
program, which was introduced in 1995, has proven ill-suited to meeting its poverty alleviation
goals. Analysis of Living Standards Measurement System survey data from 1997 and 1998
indicate major weaknesses in coverage, targeting, benefit adequacy and sustainability of financing.
Coverage under the program is exceptionally low and has fallen during the three years of program
implementation. The number of households receiving benefits each month fell dramatically from
184,000 in 1996 to 49,000 in 1998, benefiting less than I percent of households in Romania. The
real value of benefits also plummeted during the same period, falling to 55 percent of 1995 levels.
Benefit levels are also low, amounting to an average of 12.2 percent of average net wages in
1998. Analysis suggests that the currently radically underfunded MIG has negligible poverty
alleviation impact. Between 1995 and 1997 the rise in the poverty headcount that would result in
the absence of all social assistance spending would be less than one-half of a percentage point.
The MIG also suffers from a number of serious problems resulting from the decentralized
nature of the program. The programn is administered and financed locally and, as a result, is
subject to the discretion of municipal officials. Decisions regarding whether benefits are paid or
not, their level and eligibility criteria are made entirely at the local level. This has fueled the
decline in coverage, as municipal budgets have been increasingly constrained, and in many
municipalities (often the poorest areas with greatest need) the MIG has gone unpaid.
Expenditures on the program are extremely low, amounting to 0.05 percent of GDP in 1997.
Under the PSAL 11 program, the Government proposes to raise this to 0.4 percent of GDP and
finance it from the central budget.
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Building upon the comprehensive nature of the Govenmment's reform program, the SSD
addresses the three main elements of social protection: pensions, labor markets and social
assistance, as well as providing support to policy development, M&E across the entire social
protection spectrum. While this increases the complexity of the operation, there is a strong
rationale for a multi-pronged approach including the opportunity it provides for improving
coordination in: (i) policy making and evaluation; (ii) information management; and (iii)
institutional reform. In addition, the prior experience of cross-sectoral collaboration, gained by
both the Bank and the Government during the implementation of the ESPP project provides a
valuable precedent. The SSD is timed to buttress and support the implementation of the proposed
PSAL II, which creates a window of opportunity for providing implementation support for policy
adjustment. This twining of investment and adjustment operations was a key recommendation of
the Bank's Europe and Central Asia region Social Protection Strategy Paper.
C. Project Description Summary
.. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The SSD will enhance the effectiveness of key social protection programs in Romania,
increasing their fiscal affordability and contributing to poverty reduction and economic growth.
The project has four components which are summarized below: (A condition of Disbursement
for all categories of expenditure under the loan, is the receipt by the Bank of the Front-end
Fee of I percent of the loan amount).
Componwnt                     orCos    % of   fl:anit                  m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ {t $ $ ) T o tal  A { !   :;
I. Policy Development, M&E                           2.10       2.7      0.90       1.8
II. Social Insurance System Reform                  17.47      22.5      8.81      17.6
III. Labor Market Adjustment                        38.47      49.5     32.77      65.5
IV. Social Assistance Strengthening                 19.69      25.3      7.51      15.0
Total Project Costs                77.73      100.0     50.00     100.0
Front-end fee                              0.0      0.00       0.0
T'otal Financing Required                 77.73     100.0    50.00      100.0
Component I - Policy Development, M&E (US$ 2.10 million): This component will
strengthen the policy development, monitoring and evaluation capacity of the Govemment on
poverty reduction and the core MMSS in social protection. In the case of poverty reduction, a
new unit will be developed within the office of the Prime Minister, the CGAS. In the case of
social protection, the existing Statistics and Informatics Unit (SIU), which is in charge of central
data collection and policy analysis will be strengthened. This will be achieved through: (i)
strategic TA and staff training; (ii) a program of policy specific studies and program outcome
evaluations; and (iii) the installation of a Central MIS system within the MMSS.
- 7 -



The Central MIS will connect the SIU to the National Agency for Employment
(ANOEM), CNPAS and the Department of Social Assistance (DSA). This component will
contribute towards the sustainability of the social protection system through continuous data
collection and evaluation for: (a) developing social policy and analyzing options; and (b) creating
a feedback mechanism by assessing the needs and opinions of the beneficiaries. The recurrent
costs of this component over the project life are US$ 0.25 million, to be financed by the
Government.
(a) Poverty Policy Development, M&E (US$ 0.56 million). The CGAS will be under
the direct control of the Prime Minister and will be chaired by the Minister of the MMSS. its
membership will include ministers and secretaries of state from relevant ministries, representatives
of local administrations and other key stakeholders (see Annex 14 for further details). The CGAS
technical secretariat should be established within the Office of the Prime Minister by
December 31, 2001 and maintained thereafter. The functions of the CGAS include: (i)
establishment and assessment of indicators of poverty and social need; (ii) cx ante assessment of
the poverty, income distribution and social policy implications of cabinet decisions; (iii) ongoing
monitoring of Government and development partner programs; (iv) ex post evaluation of the
same; and (v) development of policies and strategies for poverty reduction and alleviation. The
CGAS will have a small staff for secretarial and logistical support, policy analysis and information
service. The project will support the CGAS through TA, staff training, office equipment &
furniture, a web-site, library development, evaluation studies contracted to local qualified experts
and undertaking conferences and workshops.
(b) MMSS Policy Development, M&E (US$ 0.80 million): Strategic TA and training
will be provided for the institutional building and development of the SIU. It will assist the
MMSS to suggest modeling changes, and provide alternative economic, demographic, and policy
reform assumptions to inform policymakers of their options. It will also support the SIU to
working with outside research and public policy agencies for the purpose of policy analysis. The
Central MIS will connect the MMSS with the 41 Judets and 6 sectors in Bucharest. It will
replace the existing paper based system with up-to-date electronic data exchange and monitoring.
The MIS will be used as a major tool for monitoring and evaluation of all services provided by the
MMSS. Computers, office furniture and staff training will be provided to the SIU staff to operate
the MIS. A library will be established with related books publications (e.g., on data collection,
methodology and M&E) and a web-site established. Regular beneficiary assessments will be
undertaken to evaluate and assess the opinions of the beneficiaries of the social protection with
respect to the services they receive and their needs in order to improve its function and be more
responsive to the needs of the beneficiaries. TA and training will be provided to the staff in
charge of developing of the indicators and the instruments for periodic beneficiary assessments.
UK-DFID proposes to fund this TA.
(c) Project Management (US$ 0.49 million) The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and
the cost of project audit will be financed under the loan. It will be responsible for project
implementation and management in the area of: (i) procurement; (ii) financial management; (iii)
development partner coordination; (iv) liaison with other concerned ministries and agencies; and
(v) auditing. There will be total of 8 staff 6 have already been appointed under the ESPP. Two
-8-



new staff will be hired under the SSD (an additional procurement officer and a budget officer)
with CVs and Terms of Reference (TOR) satisfactory to the Bank by September 30, 2001. The
PCU will also be responsible for preparing project budgets, developing and updating the Project
Operational Manual (POM) and Micro-credit Guidelines preparing the Project Management
Reports (PMR) as the basis for disbursements and a semi-annual project report. It is agreed
that:
*  any changes to the POM  and Micro-credit Guidelines would require prior Bank
approval;
*  the PCU would submit the first PMR to the Bank by December 31, 2002 and quarterly
thereafter;
*  the PCU would submit the first project report to the Bank by January 31, 2002, and
thereafter semi-annually; and
*  mid-term review to be held before December 31, 2003, based upon a mid-term report
to be submitted to the Bank by October 30, 2003.
Component II - Social Insurance System Reform (US$ 17.47 million): The social
insurance reforrn component includes three sub-components: (a) pension administration; (b)
development of the Pension Supervision Commission (PSC); and (c) Occupational Hazards
Insurance. (A comprehensive public information campaign on the pension reform will be financed
with resources from Private Sector Institution Building Loan (PIBL) I, under implementation, and
PIBL II, under preparation). The recurrent costs of this component over the project life are to be
financed by the Government from the Pension Fund.
(a) Pension Administration (US$ 13.99 million): Under the new legislation, the CNPAS
has been established to manage and oversee the PAYG system as well as to collect contributions
for the PAYG and the proposed privately managed funded pillar. It is envisioned that in the
future the CNPAS will collect other social security contributions. A medium-term strategic plan
for the development of the CNPAS, approved by its Board, will be presented to the Bank no
later than March 31, 2002.
The design and initial development of the CNPAS is currently being supported by the
ESPP loan, including software development and acquisition of IT equipment for main business
processes and management information systems. Resources, however, are insufficient to fully
develop and implement the new systems and develop the CNPAS as an effective modem
institution. The pension reform component of the SSD will continue to support the institutional
development of the CNPAS by: (i) completing the development of the main business processes
(collection, pension assignment, and management information systems) and later fine-tuning these
systems; (ii) refurbishing facilities and acquiring office equipment; (iii) continuing CNPAS staff
training; (iv) providing TA to identify and evaluate cost-efficient alternatives for paying benefits;
and (v) developing an archiving system.  In addition, the sub-component will support
rehabilitation of the disabled by strengthening the capacity of the National Institute for Medical
Expertise and Work Capacity Recovery and the local medical expertise offices of the CNPAS.
Activities will encompass (i) staff training; (ii) refurbishing of facilities and purchase of office
equipment; (iii) acquisition of medical equipment; and (iv) upgrading IT systems.
-9-



(b) Development of the PSC (US$ 2.21 million): The pension reformn envisages the
creation of the PSC, an autonomous commission entrusted with strong authorities to regulate and
supervise pension fund and pension fund administrators. The project will support the overall
establishment of the PSC, including: (i) development of regulations, operating procedures,
software and hardware systems; (ii) refurbishment of facilities and acquisition of office equipment;
and (iii) staff training. At some future date, the PSC could be combined with other agencies
responsible for the regulation and supervision of capital markets in Romania. The PSC should be
established by December 31, 2002. A condition of disbursement for goods for the PSC is that
it has been legally established.
(c) Occupational Hazards Insurance (US$ 0.58 million): This sub-component will
develop and deliver an insurance scheme financed by way of a payroll tax to protect against
occupational accidents and diseases. The overall objectives are to reduce the incidence of
occupational accidents and disease and at the same time to accelerate rehabilitation and to fairly
compensate affected employees. Specific activities are as follows: the creation of a National
Occupational Illness and Injury Insurance Fund, development of services for the prevention of
occupational hazards and the rehabilitation and compensation of victims, and the development of
an automation system to assist in the delivery of the insurance scheme.
The payroll tax to finance the scheme will be paid solely by employers and will be risk
sensitive: the more dangerous the employment the higher the tax. The payroll tax will range from
0.5 percent to 4.0 percent with the average expected to be around 1.5 percent. For the first year
after the enactment of the scheme the payroll tax will be set at 0.5 percent. The first year will be
used to capitalize the fund and during this period no benefits will be paid and limited services
provided. During the second year of operation, risk sensitive premiums will be collected, injured
and diseased employees will be compensated and prevention and recovery services implemented.
Component III - Labor Market Adjustment (US$ 38.47 million): The overall goal of
this component is to continue to support adjustment of labor policy and programs to support
economic reform, including privatization of state owned enterprises, the move from a centrally
planned to a market economy, and EU Accession. This component has two sub-components: (a)
the LRP and (b) micro-credit.
(a) LRP (US$ 26.35 million): will provide an array of active interventions to assist those
individuals affected by labor market restructuring, particularly due to the privatization of state
owned enterprises and the downsizing of the civil service and military. The menu of interventions
will include: employment services (counseling and labor exchange), institutional training, on the
job training, temporary community employment, small business assistance and business
incubators. All workers becoming unemployed, or some 625,000 workers over the lifetime of the
SSD, will be provided with basic job counseling and matching services at an average cost of US$
38 per worker funded from ANOFM's own resources (the Unemployment Fund) - but are not
included as part of the SSD costs. At an average cost of roughly US $200 per intervention, the
LRP program will service approximately 100,000 unemployed clients over a four year period or
25,000 per year. Specific program criteria are included in Annex 11.
- 10-



(b) Micro-credit (US$ 12.12 million): This sub-component will establish up to 12
micro-credit agencies with revolving funds for the purpose of providing financing to
micro-enterprises. At least one will be established in each of the 8 economic regions of the
country. The minimum size of the revolving fund to ensure long term viability is Euro I million.
The administrators of the revolving funds will be either accredited NGOs or other financial
intermediaries with prior experience in the delivery of such funds. Specific program criteria is
included in Appendix 12.
The ANOFM will be responsible for selecting, contracting and supervision of the finds.
The international and local technical experts described in the LRP component will also provide
expertise with respect to the delivery of this sub-component. The micro-credit and the LRP
sub-components will be closely linked.  This sub-component will provide financing to
approximately 1,760 micro-enterprises over four years at an average expected loan of Euro 7,500
(with a ceiling of Euro 10,000 and a maximum maturity of 3 years). A condition of
disbursement for micro-credit is that Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, have been prepared
and that for a particular micro-credit fund, that a satisfactory Micro-credit Administration
Agreement has been signed.
Component IV - Social Assistance Strengthening (US$ 19.69 million): The SSD loan
will support the implementation of the new institutional framework for social assistance which will
be introduced under the new Law on Social Assistance. This SSD component has three
sub-components: (a) institution-building based upon pilot social assistance offices at the judets
level; (b) personnel development; and (c) communications. The recurrent costs of this component
over the project life are US$ 1.75 million, to be financed by the Government.
(a) Institution Building (US$ 14.18 million): The project would support the
development of institutional capacity within the social assistance system including rehabilitation
and refurbishment of the judets level social assistance offices, provision of information technology
and technical assistance for the roll-out of the new system. As much as possible, these judets
offices will make use of existing facilities. However physical rehabilitation will be needed at many
locations in order to bring the facilities up to current MMSS occupational standards and to allow
for the installation of IT systems. Upgrading may involve the expansion of existing facilities, the
installation/modernization of utility systems including electricity and ventilation, and provision of
office equipment. The MMSS team is currently undertaking a needs assessment of facilities
through a survey of current judets offices and has prepared a financing plan for the acquisition and
rehabilitation of DSA offices by the Government.
Preparation of the activities related to the automation of the social assistance system and
the development of an MIS system are well advanced, as such activities were to be included under
the ESPP originally, but could not proceed due to lack of funds. Activities involve automation of
the system, the integration of social assistance programs into the MMSS MIS to allow for
monitoring of financing and beneficiaries and in coordination with sub-component (b), training
and support for staff in using the new system. The emphasis of these activities is the development
of informnation gathering and evaluation capacity to improve the effectiveness and targeting of
social assistance and to improve administration and policy making at all levels of the system.
- 11 -



(b) Personnel Development (US$ 1.71 million): This sub-component will support the
development of training capacity within the MMSS, preparation of curriculum for staff at all
levels of the social assistance system, and the coordination and delivery of training programs
including the development of in-service training. The main emphasis of the activities will be to
support the professionalization of social workers, and expand their competences beyond
administration of cash benefits. Training activities for social assistance will be carefilly
coordinated with training for labor and pensions personnel. Courses will utilize existing facilities
either those of the MMSS, other government agencies, or at universities or other post-secondary
institutions which may participate in the preparation and delivery of courses and on-site learning.
The subcomponent will also support the development of a human resources strategy to ensure
appropriate staffing and skills-mix. The MMSS will sign a protocols with the MAP to allow the
MMSS to provide training and other support to local government staff in the provision of
social assistance.
(c) Communications (US$ 2.05 million): The objectives of these activities are to
improve management communications within the social assistance system and to inform the public
about the role of social assistance and the range of available benefits and services. Both will be
essential under the new system. Institutional change will involve a significant reorganization of
tasks and personnel, and effective conmmunication channels will be vital to ensure a smooth
transition. Equally important, the public will need to be informed about the relocation of facilities,
and changes in eligibility criteria and application procedures for benefits and services. A particular
issue that will need attention from a public relations perspective will be the proposed introduction
of means-testing of child benefits which will be politically unpopular among some groups.
Coommunication activities will focus on public services and benefits but may also include
dissemination and coordination of information on NGO-provided social services.
The MMSS has drawn up a preliminary communications strategy which needs to be
refined and elaborated. The pilot projects will provide some opportunity for defining needs and
implementation strategies for communications. This is an area where collaboration across the
social protection sectors is essential. Communications activities are already underway for pensions
and labor markets which can provide lessons for social assistance. Research to identifying the
most effective media and methods for communications may already have been done and should
not be duplicated. Activities will include the development of the public relations capacity of the
MMSS at the central and local level through training, and the preparation and dissemination of
materials.
- 12 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The SSD will support the consolidation of the new structure of the MMSS, with a core
ministry responsible for policy development, M&E, and coordination - with all operational
services being delivered by semi-autonomous executive agencies such as the ANOFM and
CNPAS. In some cases (ANOFM) these agencies have separate tri-partite boards. The SSD will
strengthen the M&E capacity within the whole ministry. MMSS to ensure cost-effective delivery
of services and social protection benefits to target groups, thereby contributing to both poverty
reduction and increasing the affordability of social protection programs. The SSD will thus
provide support to the implementation of the social protection reforms included in PSAL II.
Within social insurance system reform, the SSD aims to consolidate the development
and implementation of a new multi-pillar system thereby diversifying pension risk and improving
long-term fiscal sustainability. The PAYG reform will become effective in mid-2001, whilst the
full introduction of the privately-managed funded pillar will only take place two or three years
later when the necessary institutional framework becomes operational. The SSD will assist both
the development of the CNPAS and the PSC, the two critical institutions for successful pension
reform implementation. Furthermore, the project will enhance the capacity of the institutions
dealing with the rehabilitation of injured workers, and the prevention of occupational injury and
disease - also EU Accession requirements.
Within labor market adjustment, the SSD will undergird the overall economic
restructuring and reform through the provision of redeployment services to redundant workers
from the enterprise sector. It will provide similar services to the military and state budget workers
thereby undergirding military downsizing and public administration reform (key needs in the
overall modernization of the Romanian economy in preparation for EU Accession).
Within social assistance, the SSD supports the implementation of the new legislative
fiamework which is being introduced through the Laws on Social Assistance and the MIG. These
legislative changes provide the basis for essential institutional and policy changes including: (i)
strengthening the safety net through increased coverage and adequacy of benefits; (ii) improving
the efficiency of the social assistance system through simplified institutional arrangements and
increased use of informnation technology; and (iii) increasing the effectiveness of the MMSS and
local governments in service delivery.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits and Target Population
The Policy Development, M&E component is geared at creating the preconditions for a
coherent monitoring and evaluation of the impact of social protection policies as well as of the
poverty reduction impact of government policies in general. By increasing the government's ability
to tailor policy to the changing nature of poverty, establishing the monitoring and evaluation unit
will benefit both those who are currently poor as well as those who face a significant risk of falling
into poverty in the future.
- 13-



The Social Insurance System Reform component aims at supporting the implementation
of an efficient, more transparent and sustainable social security system that provides adequate
pensions through a basic solidarity system as well as through a system of individual capitalization.
The elderly will benefit from a more reliable, modernized pension system where pensions will
reflect the contributions paid over the course of the whole individual career. Important benefits
might also accrue due to the introduction of the fully funded component and the creation of a pool
of long-run savings.
The Labor Market Adjustment component targets the active population segment and
aims at mitigating the cost of enterprising restructuring through, inter alia, expanding eligibility
of labor redeployment measures to all registered unemployed, and adult training. This will be
accompanied by measures to ensure the financial viability of the unemployment fund.
The Social Assistance component is aimed at supporting a rationalization of the current
social assistance system, in order to achieve a better targeting, coverage, and delivery of income
assistance, and, ultimately, a more effective poverty alleviation. These activities will directly
benefit the poor and the ultra-poor. Concurrently, the project will work at improving the fiscal
viability of cash benefits and at closing the gaps in the safety net system.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a period of 4.25 years
from October 2001 to December 2005, with the loan closing in June 2006.
Executing Agencies: The project will be managed by the existing PCU (established
under the ESPP) within the MMSS. The MMSS would implement the Policy Development,
M&E and Social Assistance Strengthening components directly under the administration of the
Minister. The Social Insurance  Reform component would be implemented by the recently
established CNPAS and the planned PSC. The Labor Market Adjustment component would be
implemented by the experienced ANOFM. A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) comprised
of high-level representatives from all these agencies plus representatives from the Ministry of
Public Finance (MFP), Ministry of Public Administration (MAP), Ministry of National Defence
(MAN) and CGAS would provide oversight and policy guidance for project implementation.
Beneficiary Involvement:  Beneficiaries/stakeholders are already represented in the
oversight boards of some agencies (e.g. trade unions and employers federations in the case of the
ANOFM).  Discussion is already underway on the nature of the representation of these
stakeholders in the case of the CNPAS and the DSA. Regular beneficiary assessments and
analysis thereof would be undertaken through Component 1.
Financial Management: The existing PCU, implementing the Employment and Social
Protection Project (ESPP - now in its final years of implementation) is established within the
Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MMSS) and will also handle the new SSD Project, as it is
acting for the same Ministry. MMSS intends to convert the PCU to a Project Management Unit
(PMU) in accordance with Government policy in this regard.
- 14 -



The PCU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system. All
procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures for the Project will be
centralized at the PCU and will be in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines. The PCU will
be fully in charge of recording all project payments, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
reporting, accounting, planning, budgeting and auditing aspects relating to the Project. No
Project funds (including Loan amounts) can be transferred directly to the beneficiaries or any
other parties, outside the Project's documented framework.
The unit was subject to a detailed review and assessment conducted by a Bank FMS and
the LACI FM Annex 4-B certification was issued, prior to Board presentation. The Government
will continue to maintain a project financial management system (FMS) in a format acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and LACI requirements.
The existing PCU currently has a chief accountant and an accountant (as well as director,
2 procurement staff and an assistant). During project negotiations, an agreement was reached
with the Government on the recruitment of two more staff (a budget officer and a procurement
officer) to enhance the staff capacity, before effectiveness.
The existing accounting software system developed by PA Management (a Canadian firm
through its Romanian subsidiary) for ESPP will also be used for the new SSD Project.
The existing accounting software system meets the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The existing software system produces for the a trial balance, a number of
procurement reports (by category), a balance sheet, a receipt and payment statement, Loan and
Special Account Statements, suppliers ledger, journal, etc.
The other reports required by the Bank, such as a list of Statements of Expenditure,
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, detailed reports for each project components and
sub-components, contract management reports, cashflow forecasts, etc are prepared manually by
the PCU, based on the records from the accounting system.
For the ESPP, the PCU executed directly the payments from the SA. In respect of the
Romanian Government contributions, the PCU requested the economic department of the MMSS
(for the State Budget), the economic department of CNPAS (for the Pension Budget) and the
economic department of the National Agency for Labor Force Occupation (for the
Unemployment Budget) to execute the payments pertaining to their share of the relevant
Romanian Governmnent contributions.
The PCU has kept all accounting documents centralized and has received monthly reports
from the above entities on the actual execution of these payments in respect of the Romanian
Government contributions, detailing the dates and amounts paid, and the relevant vouchers and
invoices to which they related. The PCU reconciled these reports with the initial requests of
payments submitted to the above economic departments.
- 15-



During the life of ESPP, there were a number of occasions when these reports were not
complete and / or submitted late to the PCU and the PCU has followed up on these issues. Once
these issues were resolved, the PCU would then make a journal entry and record that the
payments requested were actually made, and that the correct date, amount and supplier was
inputted, reconciled with the original voucher and invoice.
The PCU prepared the Project financial statements manually, including all the Romanian
Government contributions to the Project.
For the new SSD, the existing chart of accounts will require some modifications to cater
for the new project specifics. The accounting records for the SSD will be kept distinctly and
separate from the ones for ESPP. A separate set of project financial statements, will be prepared
for the SSD Project, including detailed accounts for each project component and its
sub-components. The accounts will also reflect: the status of payment against each contract;
utilization of the Special Account and replenishments made by the Bank; and statements of
sources and application of funds.
The PCU will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of
funds by source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date
and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The PCU will submit the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) to the Bank from December 31, 2002 and quarterly thereafter.
Loan funds will be channeled through a Special Account to be opened at a commercial
bank, acceptable to the WB. It was agreed that this commercial bank may be the same as the one
currently used for the ESPP (Romanian Development Bank - RDB - Societe Generale) for cost
efficiency and easiness in operation.
Government contribution will be received through the budgetary systems of the relevant
entities (State Budget, Unemployment Budget and Pension Budget, respectively). The PMU will
order the economic department of MMSS (for the State Budget), the economic department of
the CNPAS (for the Pension Budget) and the economic department of the National Agency for
Labor Force Occupation (for the Unemployment Budget) to execute the payments pertaining to
their share of the relevant Romanian Government contributions. These entities will then submit to
the PCU monthly reports detailing all payments made from the Romanian contribution (including
amounts, dates and reconciliation with the original vouchers and invoices).
In order to avoid any delays in the submission of these reports, as it was sometimes the
case on the ESPP, as mentioned above, it is recommended that the PCU is to sign a protocol with
the economic departments mentioned above, or that a MMSS Ministerial Order is issued to
strengthen the reporting procedures and enhance the overall system.
The PCU will maintain the project accounts in accordance with Romanian Budgetary
Accounting Standards. The PCU will be responsible for preparing the PMRs and Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and submitting them to the World Bank.
- 16 -



The PCU will have the project accounts audited (including the special account and all
statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), by a
firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Recruitment of such a firm on a yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory perfornance)
and all the related steps are mentioned in the Financial Management Action Plan. The audit costs
are to be financed from the Loan. This audit may be contracted together with the audit of the
ESPP. Audit reports and management letters will be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year.
A detailed description of the financial management and accounting system that will be
used for the project is presented in Annex 6.
M&E: M&E, including qualitative beneficiary assessment of all of the project activities
would be undertaken by the PCU supported under Component I of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following project altematives were analyzed in detail before the final determination of
the SSD instrument was made:
*  Adjustment Loan: An adjustment loan is needed to support the major policy reforns
required in social protection. Support to these reforms have been fully incorporated within
PSAL I and especially PSAL II, with which there is a very strong symbiotic relationship with
the SSD. This does not rule out, however, the possibility of a free-standing adjustment loan
focusing on pension reform and transitional financing at some point in the future.
i Supplemental Loan to the ESPP: This option would be relatively quick and easy, but
would by no means cover all the needs over the next 5 years within the social protection
system. It would be only a stop-gap measure and would only postpone the need for the SSD
and probably would not generate much leverage with development partners nor, for that
matter, with the Government in successfully implementing the necessary social protection
reforms.
* TA Loan: TA alone has proven to be totally inadequate to effect real institutional change.
Indeed the experience of the ESPP has shown that in the future more emphasis needs to be
given to institutional development (through training, possible twinning relationships with
similar institutions and especially learning by doing in actually implementing programs). The
social protection reforns require substantial investments in equipment and incremental
operating costs which fall outside of the parameters of a TA loan.
* APL: The advantages of an APL are that a coherent framework for social protection reform
could be established, which would require the buy-in across the political spectrum as a sine
qua non. The Government would only take a loan for those high priority elements ready to
move in, say, the first 3 years. An APL would be appropriate in an environment in which key
- 17 -



legislation is lacking and where there would clear performance triggers to move to a
subsequent phase.
*   SIL:  Given the progress made in consolidating the legal framework, the widespread
consensus developed around the key components of the SSD and the need to move ahead
with expeditious project processing, the SIL was finally chosen to be the most appropriate
instrument.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector issue                     Proiect                  (PBR) Ratings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Social Protection Systems -    1. Employment & Social            S            S
pensions, labor market and social  Protection Project
assistance
2. Child Welfare Reform           2. Child Welfare Reform           S             S
3. Privatization                  3. PSAL I                         S             S
4. Social Development             4. Social Development Fund I      S             S
5. Economic Restructuring, Business  5. PSAL II
Environment Improvement, & Social
Protection Policy Reform
6. Decentralization               6. Local Social Services
Delivery study
Other development agencies
Labor Redeployment                EU PHARE-RICOP
Vocational Education              GTZ
Labor Redeployment                USAID/IJSDOL
Occupational Health               EU PHARE
Labor Code                        EU PHARE
Occupational Health & Safety      Canada
Social Assistance Policy          UK DFID
Social Assistance                 EU PHARE
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The SSD draws extensively upon the experience obtained through the implementation of
the ESPP (ESPP) and the experience with the Romania portfolio (Romania) more generally. The
design has been based upon the lessons learnt and experience gained from and other projects in
Romania, as well as social protection projects more widely (global). It is totally consistent with
the ECA Social Protection Strategy. The main lessons leamt, with source in parentheses, and
incorporated into the SSD are summarized below:
- 18 -



*  Comprehensive social protection  approach: There are great synergies to be obtained
across the different elements of social protection - a fiscally affordable pension system requires
a sound labor market which requires a safety-net for those unable to make it in the market
economy (strategy, ESPP). The SSD explicitly covers reforns and programs in all the three
main areas covered by the strategy and synthesizes this through Component 1, Policy
Development, M&E.
*  Shift from TA to institutional development: Traditional TA has often been wasted and
failed to make meaningful institutional change (ESPP, Romania, global). SSD will thus
de-emphasize traditional TA, and look at possible twining arrangements particularly with
similar institutions in the EU, which will both provide ongoing on-call technical advice from
operatives and develop stronger institutional linkages for EU Accession.
*  Policy implementation is as important as design: Even the best policy design can be
undone by poor implementation (Romania, ESPP, global). Sound policy is a must, and this is
being supported by PSAL II. However, sound policy requires strong implementation and the
SSD is designed to increase the quality of implementation by the MMSS.
l  Strong local ownership: Projects will only be implemented effectively if there is strong real
local ownership (Romania, global). The project will be developed in the closest collaboration
with the MMSS. An identification workshop was already held in early February with the
MMSS.
3  Involve stakeholders: Stakeholder views and inputs must be incorporated constantly into the
project design if it is to respond to the real needs of the proposed beneficiaries (global,
Romania). Good progress has been made in obtaining the views of redundant workers both
participants and non-participants. Trade unions were included in the identification workshop.
The LSSD ESW is providing solid beneficiary assessment data on the non-functionality of the
existing social assistance system. Further efforts are needed regarding pensioners, employers
and representatives across the political spectrum - all of this is further complicated by the
upcoming election process.  The Bank will discuss with the Government more direct
representation of these stakeholders in the oversight of the project itself.
*  Keep projects simple: The most common cause of project failure is complexity (global).
The SSD is intrinsically complex. Great attention will be given during preparation to keep it
as simple as possible, reviewing each sub-component carefully and trying to get other donors
to finance entire sub-components.
*  Centrality of M&E: M&E of social protection programs and projects has been inadequate
(global, strategy) in many lending operations within SP and in Romania (ESPP).
Institutionalizing M&E across the entire social protection spectrum is cental to and one of the
areas of real value-added of the SSD for Romania.
*  Coordinated informatics:  Informatics systems must be able to communicate with one
another with a friendly user interface and should only be introduced after existing manual
- 19 -



informnations systems and processes have been streamlined (global, ESPP). The project will
support the ongoing streamlining of processes and information systems in the MMSS and
integrate the informatics systems for the CNPAS, ANOFM and DSA together - a process
commenced under the ESPP.
*  Precede pension reform with institutional development: Pension reform requires sound
executing agencies to implement, supervise and regulate multi-pillar pension reform. This
must be in place before such reforms are implemented (global, strategy, ESPP). The initial
thrust of the SSD is to build-up the CNPAS and PSC in anticipation of the introduction of
pillars 2 and 3 when macroeconomic, fiscal and capital market conditions permit.
*  Focus more attention on labor markets and social assistance: In ECA, social protection
has tended to focus more upon, and made more progress in, pension reform - more attention
needs to be given to labor markets and social assistance (strategy). In termns of finance, the
largest component in SSD is in the labor market area. Possibly the greatest value-added, but
most challenging component is that for social assistance. Pension reform, including modeling
is not being neglected however.
*  Well designed and executed active labor market program (ALMP) can have a positive
impact: Well designed and well executed ALMPs such as the Romanian LRP can help in the
redeployment of labor and reduce the social costs of transition (ESPP, strategy, PSAL I). The
LRP will continue to be financed with strict M&E, and with a 30 percent cap on public works
programs.   The LRP  is shifting towards more direct interventions to promote
micro-businesses support by policy reform under PSAL II.
*  Strengthen local government capacity in social assistance: Local governments in Romania
have the greatest responsibility in delivering, targeting and, currently, financing social
assistance benefits and programs. As a result, staff from local governments need to be
involved in reforrn. The project will address this through close linkages between the MMSS
and the MAP, to improve the accountability and responsiveness of services. Training
programs will involve local govemrnments and pilot activities will experiment with innovative
arrangements for local govermments to work with NGOs and other civil society organizations.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has prepared a medium-term strategy which SSD will help implement.
Legislation has been approved or is being developed in both the fields of pension and social
assistance reform for which the Government requires Bank support for its implementation. The
Government has requested Bank financial support to continue the LRP and indeed wants
coverage to be extended for rnilitary downsizing and public administration reform.  An
identification workshop was held with all of the key MMSS stakeholders, as well as trade union
representatives, which demonstrated strong ownership of all the project components.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has developed a very fruitful relationship with the MMSS over the last 5 years
through the implementation of the ESPP (ongoing), the Social Protection Adjustment Loan and
- 20 -



policy elements in PSAL I and the proposed PSAL 11. The Bank has become by far the largest
financier of social protection programs and enjoys the confidence of the senior policy makers in
the MMSS. Now that the Government is poised to pursue more comprehensive reforms in
pensions, social assistance and labor market adjustment, the Bank can bring the lessons learnt
together with best international practice oriented by the ECA Social Protection Strategy. The
Bank will pay special attention to adding value in terms of strengthening M&E, rational and
affordable policy design and building up institutional delivery capacity. The Bank has also
mobilized additional donor grant resources to help finance activities within the framework of the
SSD.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A number of pieces of analytical work which undergird the SSD are summarized in
Annex 4.
Component Il: Social Insurance System Reform: Financial projections and budgetary
impact analysis are provided in Annex 4.
Component III: Labor Market Adjustment: The ANOFM has been implementing the
LRP (partially funded from the ESPP) for more than three years. As of December 2000, ANOFM
had entered into 844 contracts with service providers to deliver services to 62,400 clients.
Approximately 11,250 individuals were placed into long term employment upon completion of the
intervention. The average costs of the interventions are as follows: employment and business
counseling $40, retraining $150 and community employment programs $400. Training has the
highest recorded placement rate of 33 percent but the most cost effective intervention is
employment and business counseling. Community employment programs are the least effective
with only 8 percent of clients securing long term employment. An evaluation of the existing LRP
and its effectiveness by an external evaluator has been undertaken. A net impact evaluation will
be completed later in 2001 and will be discussed with Bank.
The current Government is proposing a policy shift with respect to the targeting of labor
redeployment programs.  The intent is to focus more on job creation types of activities,
specifically: incubators, business counseling and the provision of micro-credits. The Government
plans to reduce the amount of passive benefits (duration of unemployment insurance and amount
of severance pay). The direction that the new administration is pursuing is consistent with a
recent report completed by "Social Assessment: Unemployment in Romania", which states that
the primary reason for unemployment is because of an inadequate demand for labor (as opposed
to structural or frictional causes) and that the amount of passive benefits are excessive and
causing distortions in the labor market.
- 21 -



Component IV: Social Assistance: In April 1995, Romania introduced means-tested
social assistance benefits, which were designed to be the principal income support mechanism for
households with incomes below an established minimum threshold. Although the program was
intended to serve as a safety net, it has proven ill-suited due to limitations in coverage, targeting
and adequacy. As is, the program is currently unsustainable. By 1998 the number of beneficiaries
reached by the program had fallen by 60 percent relative to 1995. The real value of benefits per
person depreciated by almost 50 percent in only three years. The number of monthly recipient
households dropped dramatically from 184,000 in 1996 to 88,000 in 1997, meaning that .he
program was benefiting less than 1 percent of total households in Romania.
The SSD loan aims to strengthen Romania's safety net by providing support for the
implementation of the new MIG Law. The Law will increase the effectiveness of social assistance
by (i) centralizing financing of benefits and (ii) introducing national eligibility criteria and benefit
levels. The MIG program would aim to reach the poorest households, approximately the bottom
10 percent of the population. The program incorporates work incentives, by keeping benefit levels
low and discounting a share of earned income for households with income levels close to the
benefit threshold. The SSD loan would increase the poverty alleviation effectiveness of the MIG
benefit by supporting institution-building for benefit delivery within the MMSS and local
governments and support for automation. Detailed analysis in Annex 4 further discusses the
deficiencies of the current means-tested benefit program.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Experience gained through the ongoing ESPP has demonstrated that the MMSS can
manage a large and complex loan. However, Romania is notable in having complex and
excessively bureaucratic financial management procedures, with heavy emphasis on burdensome
ex ante clearance procedures. The financial arrangements under this loan will be kept streamlined.
Fiscal Impact:
Component II: Social Insurance System Reform.
See Annex 4 for an analysis of the long-term fiscal impact of the reform.
Component III: Labor Market Adjustment
The Government is proposing significant reductions in the amount of payments from the
Unemployment Insurance Account and at the same time is expanding the contribution base to
include both civil servants and military. Payments from the unemployment insurance account will
be reduced due to an elimination of the second tier of unemployment benefits (18 additional
months at a reduced rate), a reduction in the amount of benefits payable (will be a standard
amount as opposed to being based on individual earnings) and the virtual elimination of severance
benefits (will become the employers responsibility). These moves should help to ensure the long
term viability of the Unemployment Insurance Account.
- 22 -



Component IV: Social Assistance
Social assistance will have a short term fiscal impact, but will lead to savings over the
longer term. Most immediately, the implementation of the new MIG law will increase social
assistance expenditures to 0.4 percent of GDP, from the current level of 0.05 percent of GDP.
Over the longer-term, the MIG program aims to become the core poverty alleviation program in
Romania, and universal benefits, particularly the child allowance, will have less of a role. A
current proposal would target child allowances through the Global Income Tax -- thereby clawing
back through taxation a significant share of resources for wealthier recipients who in any event do
not require the child allowance on welfare grounds. This could yield savings of 0.25 percent of
GDP.
The Framework Law on Social Assistance will also streamline benefit programs and lead
to cost savings through the consolidation of programs and institutions. Rationalization of social
assistance and elimination of ineffective programs could save about 0.15 percent of GDP. More
substantial savings could be realized through the consolidation of social assistance functions into
the MMSS, for example, from the State Secretariat for the Handicapped. The MMSS estimates
that it will need 600 new staff positions to assume its new responsibilities (with an estimated
recurrent cost of US$ 180,000 over 4 years), however these need not increase the total civil
service if staff are transferred from other social assistance related institutions which are
consolidated into the MMSS. Automation of benefit payments will also lead to longer term cost
savings through improvements in targeting and reduction of fraud.
3. Technical:
A sector work was conducted in Romania recently to understand the implications of
increasing local government autonomy for social service provision in Romania, and to document
early developments in the process to identify areas where course corrections may be necessary
and possible. The findings were used for the preparation of this project and development of
different components. The study examined the equity, efficiency, access and effectiveness of the
social services and the needs of different stakeholders, including local government
administrations, central government agencies at the national and local level, social service
institutions, NGOs, as well as the beneficiaries themselves. The first component, Policy
Development, M&E, is set up to continuously monitor and evaluate the impact of social
protections polices and programs as well as the poverty reduction impact of government polices
in general in order to provide relevant policy recommendations. One of the main activities under
this component is to undertake beneficiary assessments on a yearly basis.
4. Institutional:
An institutional assessment of the MMSS needs has been undertaken with PHRD
financing and is summarized in Annex 11.
4.1 Exccuting agencies:
The PCU is an experienced organization and the MMSS has had an extensive experience
in working with the Bank. No significant problems are foreseen, although there are two risks:
- 23 -



(i) that the various departments and agencies under the MMSS fail to cooperate; and
(ii) frictions and problems develop between the DSA and local governments in the field of
social assistance.
Both of these problems will be mitigated through the operations of an effective PCC.
4.2 Project management:
The existing ESPP PCU within the MMSS has demonstrated its capacity to handle
complex project tasks. Two additional staff will be hired by September 30, 2001, to assist with
the increased workload generated by the SSD.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment and a procurement plan have been prepared and are attached in
Annex 6. The PCU was assessed as being capable of implementing the procurement functions
required for the SSD adequately.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Project faces the following major risks in the financial management area:
Country generic risks
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be
carried out during 2001. A summary of the main country generic risks is given below.
The banking system in Romania is still perceived as potentially sensitive at liquidity
problems. Despite a certain degree of restructuring and 'cleaning' of the banking sector, the
systemic risk is still perceived as significant, as some commercial banks are regarded as not very
safe. The main problems reside in asset quality, bad-loans percentage, relatively high foreign
currency exposure, etc. It is perceived that by opening the SA at a big Romanian commercial
bank, acceptable to the WB, such as the RDB - Societe Generale (where the SA for the ESPP
under implementation, is opened), the banking risk is kept at an acceptable level.
Inflation and USD/ROL exchange rate evolution are remaining a major problem for
Romania. In 2000, inflation was 40 percent, while the devaluation was 42 percent. The
Government has estimated 25 percent inflation for 2001. The risk for this project is that all cost
estimations may be affected by inflation. This can be tackled by using a stable currency for
estimates US$ and updating the ROL equivalent amounts using the exchange rate at the time of
payment.
The risk that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined
investment program is judged as acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the
'ring-fencing' of the project through the project management unit and teams within the
beneficiaries' entities, segregation of duties within the units, requiring beneficiaries'
representatives to certify the works done, goods delivered and services rendered before payments
are made to the suppliers, proper supervision from the World Bank's teams and an independent
- 24 -



yearly audit of project funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the WB.
Project specific risks
One risk is the PCU assuming the authority and responsibility for every aspect of the
project. To address this risk: (i) all payment orders will be signed jointly by the PCU director and
chief accountant and (ii) the beneficiaries' representatives will certify the works done, goods
delivered and services rendered before the payments are made by the PCU. In addition, these
representatives may also be involved in the development of the technical specifications.
Moreover, the complete segregation of duties amongst PCU staff members will have to be
achieved.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to suppliers: (i) due to
the signatures required on the Government contributions and (ii) inadequate counterpart funds in
the Government project accounts. The experience on existing projects indicate that this risk to a
large extent is contained by adequate supervision by the Bank and has not been a problem so far.
The amounts to be allocated by the Government for the year 2001 will be included in the budget
rectification exercise in August-September 2001, after the loan signing. The amounts for the year
2001 will be limited mainly to the quarter 4 of 2001, as the project will most likely become
effective on or about September 30, 2001. The borrower stated that the amounts for 2001 will
not constitute a major issue as sufficient amounts are already included in the consolidated 2001
MMSS budgetary line - Government contributions to projects financed by international bodies,
and the 2001 Romanian Government contributions to the SSD are relatively limited in size.
This explanation is reasonable, provided that inflation and devaluation do not go out of
control. Then, the Government contributions annual amounts for 2002 and thereafter will be
allocated in advance, as a separate budgetary line, by the time when the yearly state budget is
prepared and drafted.
The third risk related to the late submission of the audit reports by the borrower. The
borrower has submitted to the Bank the 1998 audit report for ESPP with a one year delay. The
1999 audit report for ESPP is still overdue. Several discussions were held and the Borrower has
agreed to remedy the situation during 2001. The auditors (BDO) were appointed in April 2001
and the borrower has agreed that the outstanding audit reports for 1999 as well as the current one
for 2000 will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 2001. It is perceived that by appointing the
auditors by effectiveness and close supervision, this project will be in compliance with audit
covenants.
The borrower stated that the reasons for the above delays were the extensive controls
carried out by the Romanian Court of Accounts (Romanian SAl) during the periods mentioned.
These controls have lasted an average of 8 months for every fiscal year and have blocked all
relevant documentation (contracts, accounting documents, etc), thus barring the access of the
auditors to the documentation. Currently, the auditors appointed for 1999 and 2000 have started
their work and will finalize their audit reports in due course, so that these will be submitted to the
Bank by June 30, 2001.
- 25 -



In order to avoid the above situations, it is recommended that a loan covenant is included
that the PCU will make available to the external auditors, without any restrictions and on a timely
basis, all relevant documents needed for the audit work.
The fourth risk relates to the late submission and / or incompleteness of the monthly
reports prepared by the economic departments of the entities executing the payments from the
Romanian Government contributions. In order to avoid any such situations, as it was sometimes
the case on the ESPP, it is recommended that the PCU is to sign a protocol with the economic
departments mentioned above, or that a MMSS Ministerial Order is issued to strengthen the
reporting procedures and enhance the overall system.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no significant environmental issues. The Government requires that contractors
take all necessary precautions to ensure that potentially toxic substances such as asbestos or lead
from paint will be handled in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Furthermore, the
construction plan will take steps to minimize waste, dust, and debris from construction and to
safely dispose of construction wastes. Only licensed contractors will undertake such contracts.
Romanian environmental laws and requirements are compatible with the Bank's policies and those
of EU. The Bank loan is not financing civil works, which are in any event minor.
Fully-fledged environmental assessment are not applicable in the case of the Government
financed civil works implemented under the SSD project. Projects entailing rehabilitation,
maintenance and upgrading usually will have much more limited impacts, but may require
attention to existing environmental problems at the site. Therefore, an environmental screening
(inspection) may be useful in fulfilling the environmental assessment needs for such projects. The
aim of environmental inspection at PCU level is twofold: (i) to ensure that sub-projects with
negative environmental impact are not financed, and (ii) to ensure that approved sub-projects are
implemented in an environmentally acceptable manner.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
None required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n/a
- 26 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize kcy social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify thc projects social
development outcomes.
Beneficiary assessment for the Local Social Service Delivery (LSSD) study undertaken in
5 judets in Romania, highlighted the gaps in the existing safety net and problems with the
coverage, adequacy and targeting of benefits. Because of the lack of resources, local officials have
resorted to various coping strategies including delaying payments and introducing new eligibility
criteria. These developments undermine the effectiveness of the program as a national safety net.
The assessment also highlighted the costs to households of receiving benefits. The costs of
transport to the local administration, and for documentation reduce the value of benefits, and --
because of the exceptionally low level of benefits -- deter households from claiming the benefit in
the first place. The assessment also highlighted the high degree of stigma associated with social
assistance cash benefits and the lack of support for the MTSAB program. Local officials
expressed preferences for paying for in-kind services, rather than cash.
These findings underscore the objectives of the SSD project to strengthen means-tested
social assistance in Romania through implementation of the MIG law, and a significant increase in
resources allocated to the program. Public perceptions and understanding of social assistance will
also be addressed through communications activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Beneficiary assessments of poor households and their access to social services was
included under LSSD in 5 sample Judets. Stakeholder workshops will be held during the
remaining preparation process organized by the MMSS and MAP.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Trade unions and employers associations are represented on the tri-partite board of the
ANOFM and CNPAS.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
developmcnt outcomes'?
M&E of social development outcomes is included under Component 1.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be monitored regularly through Bank supervision of the
project and regular updating of the indicators in Annex 1.
- 27 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes @ No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Overall the SSD is designed to increase the sustainability of the core social protection
programs in Romania.
1. Policy Development, M&E: This component will introduce stronger economic and
social analysis  in  social protection  policy  design.    Sustainability,  affordability  and
cost-effectiveness of programs will be key elements in policy design and M&E. If implemented as
intended, this component would contribute towards the sustainability of the social protection
system as a whole.
11. Social Insurance System Reform: The current PAYG system is not sustainable over
the long-term, hence the need for further reforms. The recent parametric reforms go some way,
but additional improvements are necessary.  The second-pillar reforn  imposes substantial
transition costs in the first few years (Annex 4). Thereafter, the state budget burden for pensions
will diminish due to the cumulative impact of the PAYG reforms and higher collection yield and,
over the long-term, due to the increased importance of the funded pillar. A critical decision to
proceed with the implementation of the second pillar is a satisfactory financing plan, coupled with
appropriately stable macroeconomic conditions and adequate capital market supervision - the
latter will be enhanced through reforms supported by the proposed PSAL II.
111. Labor Market Adjustment: A properly functioning LRP is an investment to help in
smoothing the transfer of workers from declining sectors to alternative more productive activities.
While the LRP will be required into the foreseeable future, there will be a particularly heavy
demand on its services during the period 2001-04. Thereafter, as the greater part of the transition
is completed, and assuming economic recovery with increasing employment levels, it may become
- 28 -



possible to finance the reduced level of LRP activities from the Unemployment Fund managed by
the ANOFM.
IV. Social Assistance Reform: Social assistance will continue to depend upon a political
decision to finance it adequately. Prior to 2001, it was totally underfunded, mismanaged and
ineffective. The new Government has committed to allocating 0.4 percent of GDP to the MIG
and centralizing the financing of the program through earmarked transfers to local councils. The
SSD thus aims to increase the cost-effectiveness of social assistance which should likewise
increase the political determination to maintain an adequate fimding level to provide a safety-net
against extreme poverty.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Poor macroeconomic performance              S         Bank, IMF and EU dialogue seek to promote
exacerbates poverty.                                  sound macroeconomic policies and thus
economic growth.
Poor fiscal performance and weak capital    S         The second pillar will not be implemented until a
market supervision will undermine ability             satisfactory fiscal framework and inflation has
to introduce the second pillar pension                reached acceptable levels. The continued
reform.                                               dialogue with the Bank, IMF and EU will seek
to promote sound macroeconomic policies.
Supervision of capital markets will be
strengthened through the proposed PSAL II
reforms.
Cabinet does not utilize the analysis from  M         Bank dialogue and EU Accession will keep
the poverty monitoring system.                        scrutiny on Cabinet actions.
Large-scale redundancies lead to social     M         The LRP is designed to meet needs and thus
unrest and operational failure of LRP                 reduce social tension. Timely payments of
severance pay, unemployment benefit,
functioning social assistance all backed up by
appropriate public information campaigns are
needed.
Parliament fails to pass necessary          M         This is a condition of the proposed PSAL II.
satisfactory legislation on social                    There is currently strong political will.
assistance.
Government allocates inadequate funds to    S         Appropriate legislation, with enforcement and
social assistance and/or earmarking fails.            Bank and EU monitoring will minimize this.
- 29 -



Parliament fails to pass necessary           S         This is a condition of the proposed PSAL II and
satisfactory legislation for the                       the government has expressed strong interest in
establishment of private funded pillars                consolidating pension policy reforms through the
establishment of a multi-pillar framework.
From Components to Outputs
MMSS management does not seriously           N         The current management is deeply committed to
incorporate M&E in policy determination.               improve in this area, but lacks the means. The
SSD will provide such means.
Institutional disagreements lead to the      S         Component I seeks to address this through joint
failure to develop poverty surveillance at             training of CGAS, MMSS and local govemment
local and Judets level.                                staff
Poor management and staff performance        M         Selection, training, and sound remuneration of
in the PSC leads to inadequate                         staff and management will diminish these risks.
supervision of pillar 2.
LRP fails to respond in time to redundant    M         The LRP has demonstrated capacity to respond
workers.
Property ownorship of MMSS buildings         M         The project will provide incentives for MMSS to
is not clarified.                                      clarify ownership in order for buildings to be
rehabilitated.
The MMSS has insufficient personnel to       M         Adequate budgetary provision must be made by
undertake social assistance reforms.                   the MMSS, MAP and MFP.
Overall Risk Rating                          S         There is a substantial risk to the SSD, but the
probable pay-off is very high.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   Private pensions & financial management: Controversy has arisen with the bankruptcy in
2000 of a large mutual fund due to major fraud by its ownership. Investors were left
unprotected, although the situation has been made murkier by the possible liability of a
state-owned Bank. There is a fear that private pension funds, unless strongly regulated could
have a similar impact. The SSD tackles this issue directly by supporting the development of
the PSC to regulate such funds and protect contributors.
*   Job losses through restructuring: Job losses, resulting from economic restructuring, will
initially result in human welfare losses and even possibly increased poverty initially, although
over the medium to longer term such restructuring is anticipated to enhance growth, increase
employment and reduce poverty. An adequate safety-net, and an effective LRP are important
elements to reduce the negative social impact of such restructuring, especially for sensitive
groups such as the military and the public administration workers. This loan is designed to
ensure that all unemployed are eligible for LRP.
- 30 -



*  Targeting of social assistance and rationalizing of programs:  Improved targeting of
programs means that there will be winners and losers. The winners will be the very poor, who
traditionally have only a weak voice, whereas the losers are likely to be in the middle income
spectrum and inherently more vociferous. Likewise, rationalizing social assistance programs
will reduce the powers of patronage of certain ministries, whilst giving the MMSS a more
important strategic role in social assistance.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
All conditions to be met satisfactory to the Bank
Disbursemert:
* For all categories, receipt by the Bank of the Front-end Fee of 1 percent of the loan amount.
* For goods for the PSC sub-component, the passage of a law establishing an agency to
regulate and supervise the mandatory private funded pension pillars.
* For micro-credit Component, that Micro-credit Guidelines have been adopted, and a
Micro-credit Administration Agreement has been signed for a particular micro-credit fund.
Dated Covenants:
 Appointment of an additional procurement and an additional budget officer to the PCU by
09/30/01.
* Establish the PCC by 09/30/01, comprising the representatives of MMSS, CNPAS, PSC,
ANOFM, CGAS, MFP, MAN and MAP, and maintain thereafter.
* Establishment of the CGAS technical secretariat within the Office of the Prime Minister, with
staff, resources and TOR acceptable to the Bank, by 12/31/01.
* Medium-term strategic plan for the development of CNPAS, approved by its Supervisory
Board, by 03/31/02.
* Establishment of PSC with staff, resources and TOR acceptable for the Bank, by 12/31/02,
maintained thereafter.
Ongoing:
* Prior Bank approval for any change to the POM or Micro-credit Guidelines.
* Submit PMR to the Bank from 12/31/02 and quarterly thereafter.
* Monitoring and Evaluation report submitted to the Bank commencing 01/31/02, and
thereafter semi-annually.
* Maintain the PCU with adequate staff and resources within the MMSS.
* Signing of protocols between MMSS and MAP to allow the MMSS to provide training and
other support to local government staff involved in the provision of social assistance as
necessary.
- 31 -



* Carrying out LRP and a Micro-credit Component in accordance with the POM and
Micro-credit Guidelines.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Q19M A. Innes               /         ial 1. Rutkowski              Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                         ctor Manager                    Country Manager
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                        ECuritiao              Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Advance substantial structural 1. Number of enterprises  I. PSAL 11.               I. Government maintains
reforms to rationalize the role privatized (by share of                           political will for reform.
of the state.              State-owned enterprise      2. IMF Stand-by Program
assets).
2. Number of Government
agencies restructured (by
share of employment).
Enhance EU Accession       1. Progress on EU Accession  1. EU Accession Reports.   1. Government maintains real
related sector programs.   by social chapters.                                    commitment to EU Accession.
Provide measures to protect   1. Share of GDP allocated to  1. MFP budget data.    1. Availability of fiscal
poor and vulnerable groups   MIG.                                                 resources and political will to
during the transition.                                                            support such programs.
2. Share of GDP allocated to
other core anti-poverty
programs.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           ;Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Reduce poverty and enhance
economic growth in Romania.
1. Policy Development
M&E - improving policy     1. Annually updated poverty   I. CGAS poverty studies.  1. Government maintains
development (M&E)          profiles.                                              commitments to reform
2. MMSS M&E reports.       agenda
2. Number of M&E reports
prepared.
11. Pension reform         1. Higher collection rates.    I. MMSS statistics.     1. New Private Pension Fund
Supporting a more efficient,                                                      Law approved.
equitable and sustainable   2. Improved actuarial      2. CNPAS database.
pension system through the   performance.                                         2. The fiscal situation is
implementation of a                                    3. Beneficiary assessments   consistent with proposed
multi-pillar scheme with a  3. Improved pension                                   pension reform program.
PAYG component and an      administration.             4. Reports and publications
individual capitalization                              from PSC.                  3. Continued Government
component.                 4. Sound regulation and                                commitment to pension
supervision of private pension                         reform.
funds.
4. Fiduciary control of private
pension funds established and
I __________________________ .__________________________ ._________________ .________   m aintained.
-33 -



111. Labor Market
Adjustment
Facilitating labor market     1. Number of workers          I. LRP and micro-credit       1. Restructuring continues to
restructuring through the LRP benefiting from various LRP   progress reports.            take place.
and the provision of micro-    menu activities and the
credit.                       number of businesses (and
associated jobs) created
through micro credit
financing.
2. Number of new jobs
created.
IV. Social Assistance:        I.lmprove measures to         I.  MMSS and national         1. Government support for
Strengthening the            alleviate poverty.            poverty reports.              institutional reform is
effectiveness and quality of                                                              sustained. Social assistance
social assistance through: (i)  2. Improved coverage and    2.   Household survey data  functions are consolidated
institution building; (ii)   adequacy of the MIG                                          under the jurisdiction of the
strengthening the fiscal     program.                                                     MMSS.
viability of social assistance;
and (iii) increasing the                                                                  2. Financing for the MIG
effectiveness of local                                                                    program is secured through
governments in service                                                                    earnarked financing to local
delivery.                                                                                 governments
- 34 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Iridicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Policy Development      1. CGAS functioning         1. CGAS & MMSS reports.   1. MMSS maintains
M&E                        adequately.                                            commitment.
Improving the development   2. MMSS integrated social                             2. CGAS functions effectively.
M& E and poverty policy    protection database
monitoring.                established.
3. Social Protection website
established.
II. Pension Reform
(a) Administration:        1. Secure and accurate      1. Social Security Database.   1. Project establishing
Achieved through (i) building                                                     CNPAS and regional offices
a cost-efficient record keeping             .          2. Record of complaints.   is successful in building a
system  that allows for an 2. Number of legal actions                             satisfactory IT infrastructure.
accurate and safe system  of undertaken by pensioners  3. Project supervision reports.
individual work histories,    against the CNPAS.                                  2. Continued Government
tracking of contributions, and 3  Improved info t      4. Customer satisfaction   commitment to pension
benefit   payments;   (n) financial flows between the    questionnaires.          reform.
designing personnel training CNPAS and other related
strategies   and   providing agencies (eg. ANOFM).     5. Personnel performance
actual training.                                       reviews.
4. Time needed to process a
contribution and transfer it to
a mandatory private pension
fund (when mandatory private
pension funds are in place).
5. Time needed to process a
claim.
6. Lower transaction costs.
7. Staff has been trained in
EU criteria regarding social
security benefits.
(b) Institutional
development                I. Required regulation is    1. Published regulation.   1. Parliament approves the
of the Pension Supervision   issued by PSC.                                       Law regulating Private
Commission                 2. Number of appeals to the  2. PSC supervision reports.   pensions.
Establishing the PSC - the PSC.
autonomous supervisory and    .                        3. Project supervision reports. 2. Adequate financial market
regulatory body of the private 3. Number of voluntary                             development.
pension system.            contributors in the transition  4. Individual accounts.
period.                                                3. Adequate budget support
4. Number of on-site visits  5. Record of appeals.     for PSC.
and quality of off- and on-site                        4. Selection of qualified
supervision reports.                                   staff.
5. Efficient interface of
information and financial
flows with related agencies.
- 35 -



111. Labor Market
Adjustment                 I. Number of unemployed     1. ANOFM Reports            1. Government updates the
(a) Labor Redeployment    included in the program                                 current legislation regulating
Program and (b) micro-                                 2. Surveys                 the active measures,
credit.                    2. Placement Rates                                     expanding its coverage
Ensure program sustainability                          3. Supervision Reports     Remuneration of ANOFM
country wide, by providing    3. Success Rates                                    staff (quality of monitoring
adequate financing, and                                4. Net Impact Evaluation   and evaluation services)
expanding eligibility to all   4. Business Start-up Rates
registered unemployment                                                           2. State budget takes over
(including MAN, MAP)       5. Repayment rates for                                 costs for specific categories of
micro-credit.                                          unemployment
IV. Social Assistance      1. Regulations and          1. Published regulations.   1. The new Laws on Social
Strengthening              procedural manuals for the                             Assistance and the MIG are
(a) Institution building: to   Social Assistance Framework  2. MMSS and JDMSS     passed.
increase the effectiveness and  and MIG Laws are developed. reports.
responsiveness of social                                                          2. Property ownership of
assistance services through:                           3. Mediation Commission    buildings is clarified.
(i) development of         2. Anti-fraud mechanisms are reports.
institutional capacity; (ii)  put into place.                                     3. The MMSS has sufficient
upgrading of physical                                                             staff in the JDMMSSs and
facilities; and (iii) installation 3. Mediation Commissions                       central DSA to implement the
of information technology.    established in each JDMMSS.                         new legislation.
4. Number of JDMMSSs
renovated.
5. Number of JDMMSSs
furnished and equipped with
IT.
6. MIS created.
7. Payment systems for child
benefits are improved.
(b) Personnel Development:
to support the             I. Training curriculum and    1. MMSS and MAP           I.The MMSS is able to recruit
professionalization of social   materials are developed.  evaluation reports.     and train quality personnel.
assistance, including: (i)
upgrading the skills of MMSS 2. Number of trainers trained. 2. Course evaluations from  2. Policy makers and
and local council staff and (ii)                       participants.              managers support professional
development of specialized    3. Number of staff trained                          development opportunities.
expertise.                                             3. Client surveys.
3. Local government staff are
able to participate in training
courses organized by the
MMSS.
- 36 -



(c) Communications: (i)    1. Social marketing research   1. MMSS and MAP          1. Staff at all levels have time
increase public awareness of  undertaken and strategy  evaluation reports.        to devote to public relations
the objectives of social   developed.                                             activities.
assistance programs and                                2. Media coverage.
policies, (ii) inform the public 2. MMSS staff trained in
about changes to programs    communications.           3. Beneficiary assessments:
and policies and (iii) improve                         public opinion polls and client
internal communication     3. Number of media events.  surveys.
within the social assistance
system.                    4. Newsletter for MMSS and
local governments produced.
5. Number of meetings
between JDMSS and local
government staff.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Policy Development,     US$ 2.10 million            1. Progress reports.       1. Parliamentary approval of
M&E                                                                               the loan.
2. Disbursement reports.   2. Timely hiring of
consultants.
II. Social Insurance System    US$ 17.47 million
Reform
III. Labor Market           US$ 38.47 million
Adjustment
IV. Social Assistance      US$ 19.69 million
Strengthening
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
The project development objective of the SSD is to contribute towards increased
economic growth and poverty reduction through: (i) improving policy development, monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) in both poverty and social protection; (ii) supporting social insurance
system reform, including a multi-pillar pension reform; (iii) facilitating labor market adjustment
and micro-business development; and (iv) strengthening the social assistance system. The SSD
will also contribute towards Romania's development agenda, namely: (a) EU Accession - through
modernizing the labor market; (b) ongoing structural reform (as embodied in the proposed PSAL
II) - through support to labor redeployment in state owned enterprises, public administration and
military sectors; and (c) reducing poverty - through strengthening the social safety-net.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.10 million
Component I - Policy Development, M&E:
This component will strengthen the policy development, monitoring and evaluation
capacity of the Govermnent on poverty reduction and the core MMSS in social protection. In the
case of poverty reduction, a new unit will be developed within the Office of the Prime Minister,
the CGAS. In the case of social protection, the existing SIU, which is in charge of central data
collection and policy analysis will be strengthened. This will be achieved through: (i) strategic
TA and staff training; (ii) a program of policy specific studies and program outcome evaluations;
and (iii) the installation of a Central MIS within the MMSS. The Central MIS will connect the
SIU to the ANOFM, CNPAS and DSA. This component will contribute towards the
sustainability of the social protection system through continuous data collection and evaluation
for: (a) developing social policy and analyzing options; and (b) creating a feedback mechanism by
assessing the needs and opinions of the beneficiaries. The recurrent costs of this component over
the project life are US$ 0.25 million, to be financed by the Government.
(a) Poverty Policy Development, M&E (US$ 0.56 million). The CGAS will be under
the direct control of the Prime Minister and will be chaired by the Minister of the MMSS. Its
membership will include ministers and secretaries of state from relevant ministries, representatives
of local admninistrations and other key stakeholders (see Annex 14 for further details). The
functions of the CGAS include: (i) establishment and assessment of indicators of poverty and
social need; (ii) ex ante assessment of the poverty, income distribution and social policy
implications of cabinet decisions; (iii) ongoing monitoring of Government and development
partner programs; (iv) ex post evaluation of the same; and (v) development of policies and
strategies for poverty reduction and alleviation. The CGAS will have a small staff for secretarial
and logistical support, policy analysis and information service. The project will support the
CGAS through TA, staff training, office equipment & furniture, a web-site, library development,
evaluation studies contracted to local qualified experts and undertaking conferences and
workshops. The SSD will thus support:
- 38 -



ti) Continuing, short term but regular Consultant support for the CGAS, including TA
on: alternative models of operation of policy advisory groups; policy generation and
implementation; M&E processes; cross-boundary initiatives; establishing and monitoring
standards for the work of the CGAS; and problem-solving.
(ii) Training in Policy and M&E staff of the CGAS in: data collection, data source
integrity evaluation, setting and monitoring indicators of social need, setting and monitoring
indicators of policy implementation, data analysis and production of management information
reports, policy analysis and development, critical analysis of organizational and systems
operation, data modeling. This training will be provided on a phased basis throughout the
project life, but will be weighted towards early stages for maximum output and sustainability.
(iii) A small-scale study tour for key members of CGAS and the Government. To a
Western European country to examine: policy development unit operation, anti poverty
strategy development and operations, government initiatives to reduce social exclusion,
models of operation of prime ministerial advisers, models of integrating local and national
poverty alleviation initiatives.
(iv)   Office equipment and library development. Office furniture, computers, printers
and scanner, internet connection, network facilities for permanent staff of the CGAS.
(v)   Program  of outsourced policy studies. Outsourced policy studies (through
university departments, research institutes, consulting companies, NGOs, and suitably
qualified individuals) may include: studies of poverty related issues, troubleshooting and
support for aspects of the current and evolving system of collection and analysis of data within
the country, publication of reports, events to support and enhance the activities of the CGAS -
e.g. workshops, seminars, focus group activities.
Inputs:       TA, training, library development, equipment and funding for
studies/conferences/workshops;
Finance:      UK DFID US$ 0.47 million; Bank US$ 0.08 million; Government
US$ 0.01 million
Outputs:      Poverty Policy Monitoring unit established;
Outcome:      Sound poverty policy and monitoring indicators, more coherent policy
towards poverty reduction.
Responsible Unit: CGAS
(b) MMSS Policy Development, M&E (US$ 0.80 million): Strategic TA and training
will be provided for the institutional building and development of the SIU. It will assist the
MMSS to suggest modeling changes, and provide alternative economic, demographic, and policy
reform assumptions to inform policymakers of their options. It will also support the SIU to
working with outside research and public policy agencies for the purpose of policy analysis. The
Central MIS will connect the MMSS with the 41 Judets and 6 sectors in Bucharest. It will
replace the existing paper based system with up-to-date electronic data exchange and monitoring.
- 39 -



The MIS will be used as a major tool for monitoring and evaluation of all services provided by the
MMSS. Computers, office firmiture and staff training will be provided to the SIU staff to operate
the MIS. A library will be established with related books publications (e.g., on data collection,
methodology and M&E) and a web-site established.
The SIU will: (i) collect detailed data and information on the most vulnerable groups; (ii)
use labor and social protection indicators to measure minimum guaranteed income; (iii) collate
data on income level, pension benefits, unemployment benefits, and family allowance to determine
and monitor the socio-economic condition of the recipients of social protection to address issues
of inclusion and exclusion; and (iv) develop a more efficient system by monitoring and evaluating
social protection programs. Regular beneficiary assessments will be undertaken to evaluate and
assess the opinions of the beneficiaries of the social protection with respect to the services they
receive and their needs in order to improve its function and be more responsive to the needs of the
beneficiaries. TA and training will be provided to the staff in charge of developing of the
indicators and the instruments for periodic beneficiary assessments and UK DFID will be
proposed to fund this TA.
TA will be provided for developing of training modules and courses for both national and
Judet level staff. It will give assistance for the development of: (i) training of staff in M&E
methodology; (ii) specific monitorable indicators for the key MMSS programs in coordination
with the agencies; (iii) labor and social protection indicators; and (iv) reports for the Government
and general public. UK DFID will also increase the M&E capacity of the SIU by providing for
special training programs for judet staff in social assistance offices in charge of data collection.
Inputs:       TA, training, computers, library development
Finance:      Bank US$ 0.68 million; Government US$ 0.12 million
Outputs:      SIU built up an effective policy development, M&E body; integrated
MiS for the MMSS established
Outcome:      More effective delivery of social protection programs.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (SIU)
(c) Project Management (US$ 0.49 million) The PCU and the cost of project audit will
be financed under the loan. It will be responsible for project implementation and management in
the area of: (i) procurement; (ii) financial management; (iii) development partner coordination;
(iv) liaison with other ministries and agencies; and (iv) auditing. There will be total of 8 staff; 6
have already been appointed under the ESPP, and two new staff will be hired under the SSD (an
additional procurement officer and a budget officer) with CVs and TOR satisfactory to the Bank.
Inputs:       Local TA,; equipment, training
Finance:      Bank US$ 0.12 million Government US$ 0.37 million
Outputs:      Project management
Outcome:      Effective project.
- 40 -



Project Component 2 - US$17.47 million
Component II - Social Insurance System Reform
The pension reform component has three sub-components: (a) pension administration; (b)
development of the Pension Supervision Commission (PSC); and (c) Occupational Hazards
Insurance. A comprehensive public information campaign on the pension reform will be financed
with resources from PIBL I under implementation, and PIBL II, under preparation. The recurrent
costs of this component over the project life are US$ 0.69 million, to be financed by the
Government.
(a) Pension Administration (US$ 13.99 million):
Core pension administration functions:  Under the new legislation, the CNPAS has been
established to manage and oversee the PAYG system as well as to collect contributions for the
PAYG and the proposed privately managed funded pillar. It is envisioned that in the future the
CNPAS will collect other social security contributions. The design and initial development of the
CNPAS is presently being financed by the ESPP loan, inter alia
* software development and acquisition of IT equipment for (i) the new collection process
based on individual records and establishment of registries for employers, contributors,
and workers' entire contribution history; (ii) revised processes for determining eligibility
and calculating payments for pensions and other benefits; and (iii) introduction of financial
and management information systems (MIS) according to best intemational practices;
* development and acquisition of telecommunication systems to guarantee an expeditious
and safe information exchange between headquarters and local offices, and between
CNPAS, other social protection entities, and the MMSS; and
C staff training on the new business and MIS processes.
The ESPP resources are insufficient to establish the CNPAS and prepare and fully
implement the new systems. The pension reform component of the SSD will continue to support
the institutional development of the CNPAS. Areas to be addressed and activities to be financed
are detailed below.
(i) Refurbishment and acquisition of new facilities (US$ 2.57 million): The headquarters
of the newly formed CNPAS are presently scattered among different buildings and its assets
are commingled with other MMSS departments and social protection quasi-agencies. New
facilities are required to accommodate sizable IT investments and new staff necessary to
address expanded administration functions. At the judet level, the condition of offices is
inadequate to safely install the IT systems and offer enhanced customer service.  The
introduction of individual records, new benefit rules, and greater worker responsibility under
the new pension regime will entail more active interaction between the CNPAS and its
- 41 -



customers (workers, employers, and pensioners) demanding greater and improved customer
service. The project will support the acquisition of facilities (in particular the purchase of a
new building to accommodate the headquarters of the CNPAS) and refurbishment of outdated
local office sites to install and safely operate the new IT equipment; to assure a safe working
environment for CNPAS personnel; and to provide better customer service. Acquisition of
offices and civil works for office refurbishment are estimated at US$ 7.9 million.
(ii) Purchase of office equipment (US$ 0.11 million): The project will support the
acquisition of office equipment, primarily for the new headquarters building and most
deteriorated local offices. The purchase of new office furniture will be financed from the loan
(US$ 0.1 million.)
(iii) Completion of new business processes (US$ 4.0 million): This component will
supplement ESPP activities completing the establishrment of new business processes. This will
entail the acquisition of additional computers, printers, and small servers for local office staff
working on contribution collection and benefit calculation, and the purchase of additional
license rights for the use of basic office software. To foster transparency, greater worker
responsibility, and improved collection, the law mandates the issuance of annual statements to
all registered workers and self-employed with inforrnation on their recent contribution history
and future benefit rights. This activity will require the acquisition of two heavy-duty laser
printers. The loan will finance the purchase of goods and license rights US$ 1.8 million.)
Recurrent costs are estimated at US$ 0.1 million.
(iv)   Staff training (US$ 0.48 million):   Additional training will be provided to
users-supplementing staff training activities initiated under the ESPP. Training will address
the utilization of new equipment, new procedures for determining pension eligibility,
processes related to collection and maintenance of individual records, and enhanced customer
service. Training activities will be financed from the loan (US$ 0.4 million).
(v) Development of an archiving system (US$ 0.17 million): The loan will finance the
development of a functional and safe system for archiving the extensive documents and
records related to contribution history, mandated by the law.  During the first phase,
intemational and local technical assistance will be procured (i) to examine the functionality
and estimate the costs of various safekeeping systems and (ii) to design the technical
specifications of the preferred option. The second phase will support the development and
installation of the new archiving system. The cost of the TA and development phase are US$
0.1 million and US$ 0.7 million, respectively.
(vi) Development of a website and hotline (US$ 0.18 million): As part of a broader strategy
to enhance customer service, the CNPAS plans to develop a website and hotline. Based on
other country experiences and due to capacity constraints, it is expected that the hotline will
initially offer limited services and concentrate on a segment of customers, gradually expanding
over time. The loan will finance technical assistance necessary to design (i) the website and
IT specifications, and (ii) the medium-term strategy for the hotline and action plan (US$ 0.1
million). During a second phase, the loan will support the development of the website and
- 42 -



the first stage of the hotline (US$ 0.2 million).
Rehabilitation of the disabled: In addition to the activities noted above to support the new
CNPAS development and its core pension administration functions, this subcomponent will
enhance the capacity of the National Institute for Medical Expertise and Work Capacity Recovery
and medical expertise local offices of the CNPAS in order to facilitate the reintegration of the
disabled into the workforce. Activities to be financed are detailed below:
(i) Refurbishment of facilities (US$ 3.07): To improve customer service for the disabled
and to safely operate the new medical equipment, it is necessary to upgrade the existing
facilities of the INEMRCM. The project will support the refurbishment of the most
deteriorated facilities through government financing.
(ii) Purchase of office equipment (US$ 0.42): The project will support the acquisition of
office equipment for the INEMRCM, in Bucharest, and medical expertise local offices of the
CNPAS, at the judet level. The loan will finance the acquisition of office equipment.
(iii) Acquisition of Medical equipment (US$ 1.92): To upgrade the practices and
rehabilitation capacity of the INEMRCM in Bucharest and medical expertise local offices of
the CNPAS, at the judet level, the project will finance the acquisition of new medical
equipment. These purchases will be financed by the loan.
(iv) Acquisition of hardware and software (US$ 0.81):  The project will finance the
acquisition of basic hardware and software equipment for the INEMRCM and medical
expertise local offices of the CNPAS in order to maintain records and monitor the
rehabilitation progress of the disabled and exchange necessary information with other
administration offices of the CNPAS. These purchases will be financed by the loan.
(v) Training (US$ 0.26). The project will support medical staff training of the INEMRCM
and local offices of the CNPAS to assess work capacity of the disabled according to new
methodologies and proceed to determine (a) his/her pension benefits based on the degree of
disability (1, 11, and III) and (b) recommend rehabilitation treatment to facilitate work capacity
recovery. The staff will also be trained in the use of the new medical equipment. Training
costs will be financed by the loan.
Inputs:        Civil works, office equipment., medical equipment, IT equipment and
printers, TA, and training.
Finance:       Bank US$ 6.92 million; and Government US$ 7.05 million.
Outputs:       Improved office space, MIS, trained staff
Outcome:       Higher compliance, improved targeting of public pension system and
actuarial performance, and enhanced pension administration.
Responsible Unit: CNPAS and INEMRCM.
- 43 -



(b) PSC (US$ 2.21 million): The pension reform envisages the creation of the PSC, an
autonomous commission entrusted with strong authorities to regulate and supervise pension fund
and pension fund administrators. The project will support the overall establishment of the PSC,
including:
(i) Development of regulations and operating procedures (US$ 0.16 million). International
and local technical assistance will be procured for preparing the following regulations:
establishing a pension fund; marketing products; minimum information to sign up new
members; requisites for fund sales agents; administration of contributions; transfer of
accounts; investment norms; asset valuation; purchases, sales, custody and transfer of
securities; norms for operational control of pension funds; accounting systems for pension
funds and pension fund administrators; and asset valuation. On follow-up visits, consultants
will review and propose revisions to regulations and norms based on the implementation
experience, if necessary. Supervision experts will also be contracted to elaborate procedures
for off-site and on-site supervision of pension funds, pension fund administrators, and
custodians; procedures for agents and brokers; procedures for affiliation and transfer of
pension fund members; and documentation requirements. Local and international technical
assistance will be financed from the loan.
(ii) Development and acquisition of IT systems (US$ 1.15 million): International and local
technical assistance will be procured to prepare an IT strategy to facilitate the rigorous
supervision of mandated private pension funds and administrators, inter alia control of
investments, operating costs and profitability; monitor asset valuation, portfolio risk and
exposure; build a database on pension fund management and sales agents; exchange
information with the CNPSS; and support management information systems for the PSC as
well as an intemal accounting system. The strategy will evaluate the cost of developing new
software versus purchasing software operational in other pension supervision commissions
and adapting it to local requisites. If the first option is followed, consultants will prepare a
detailed technical specification package; if the altemative route is pursued, technical
specifications will be written for adapting the software to the needs of the PSC. Necessary
computers, printers, and servers will be purchased. Both the development and purchase of IT
systems will be financed from the loan.
(iii) Refurbishment of facilities and acquisition of office equipment (US$ 0.5 million):
The Government will finance the refurbishment of facilities (US$ 0.28 million) and the loan
will finance the purchase of office equipment US$ 0.21 million) to accommodate the staff and
ensure proper operation of the PSC.
(iv) Staff training US$ 0.4 million): The loan will finance training in all areas affecting the
PSC inter alia: (i) pension accounting and financial management; (ii) account tracking,
financial reporting, and reconciliation procedures; (iii) evaluation of pension fund solvency and
liquidity needs; (iv) review of sales agents' compliance with operating requirements; (v)
tracking passive fund pension accounts; (vi) asset pricing; (vii) evaluation of portfolio
investments; and (viii) oversight and scrutiny of indicators. Training will be conducted: (a)
- 44 -



on-the-job by consultants; (b) study tours by key PSC staff to the supervisory private pension
agencies of other countries; (c) visits to regional conferences on pension reform; (d) seminars
held by specialist consultants on the topics above; (e) specific seminars by representatives of
stock exchanges, and other supervisory agencies; and (f) qualified trainers.
The institutional development of the PSC will occur in two phases:
*  Phase 1, would comprise drafting of key regulations and by-laws for the PSC; defining
organizational structure; drafting of licensing procedures; designing the basic architecture
of the IT systems; and training of core staff, i.e. management and key legal and financial
analysts to support licensing process.
*  Phase 2, would address other activities described above.
Inputs:         Civil works, office equipment; IT equipment and printers, TA, and training
Finance:        Bank US$ 1.89 million; Government US$ 0.32 million
Outputs:        Offices developed, MIS, trained staff
Outcome:        Sound regulation and supervision of private pension funds
Responsible Unit:      MMSS and subsequently PSC
(c) Occupational Hazards Insurance (US$ 0.58 million): This sub-component will
develop and deliver an insurance scheme financed by way of a payroll tax to protect against
occupational accidents and diseases. The overall objectives are to reduce the incidence of
occupational accidents and disease and at the same time to accelerate rehabilitation and to fairly
compensate affected employees. Specific activities are as follows: the creation of a National
Occupational Illness and Injury Insurance Fund, development of services for the prevention of
occupational hazards and the rehabilitation and compensation of victims, and the development of
an automation system to assist in the delivery of the insurance scheme.
The insurance scheme and associated services are to be delivered by the MMSS. program
is essentially a new initiative, however, the existing public pension programs provides some
compensation and rehabilitation of affected employees. Establishment of this program is a
necessary prerequisite for EU accession. Legislation to enact the insurance scheme has been
approved by the Lower Chamber of Parliament and is presently before the Senate.
The payroll tax to finance the scheme will be paid solely by employers and will be risk
sensitive: the more dangerous the employment the higher the tax. The payroll tax will range from
0.5 percent to 4.0 percent with the average expected to be around 1.5 percent. For the first year
after the enactment of the scheme the payroll tax will be set at 0.5 percent. The first year will be
used to capitalize the fund and during this period no benefits will be paid and limited services
provided. During the second year of operation, risk sensitive premiums will be collected, injured
and diseased employees will be compensated and prevention and recovery services implemented.
Inputs:            Office equipment, IT equipment and software, printers, copiers,
international and local TA, international and local training, media
Financing:         CIDA US$ 0.58
- 45 -



Outputs:          Offices equipped, MIS, trained staff, TV and radio advertising, website,
publications, rehabilitation and compensation of affected employees
Outcome:          Reduction of occupational hazards and disease, accelerate rehabilitation
and provision of fair compensation
Responsible Unit: MMSS - Insurance and Prevention for Work Accidents Directorate
Project Component 3 - US$ 38.47 million
Component III - Labor Market Adjustment:
The overall goal of this component is to continue to support adjustment of labor policy
and programs to support economic reform, including privatization of state owned enterprises, the
move from a centrally planned to a market economy, and EU Accession. This component has
two sub-components: (a) the LRP and (b) micro-credit.
(a) LRP (US$ 26.35 million): The LRP will provide an array of active interventions to
assist those individuals affected by labor market restructuring, particularly due to the privatization
of state owned enterprises and the downsizing of the civil service and military. The menu of
interventions will include: employment services (counseling and labor exchange), institutional
training, on the job training, temporary community employment, small business assistance and
business incubators. At an average cost of roughly US$ 200 per intervention, the LRP program
will service approximately 100,000 unemployed clients over a four year period or 25,000 per
year. Over this period the ANOFM will also provide counseling and labor exchange services to
approximately another 625,000 people at an average cost of US$ 38 per worker.
The ANOFM has developed significant experience in the delivery of active employment
interventions through the ESPP. The capacity of the ANOFM with respect to program delivery
has been enhanced through local and international technical assistance provided by the US
Department of Labor. Given this capacity development, the project proposes much less reliance
on international technical assistance (12 months over the 4.25 year period) and the same focus on
local technical assistance (384 months for 8 local experts over the 4 year period). A small amount
of international training (6 months) and local training (20 months) is proposed to continue the
capacity development of ANOFM staff. The resources for TA and training referred are for both
sub-components: LRP and micro-credit.
There is no preset allocation for each of the interventions in the LRP because the intent of
the program is that it will be demand driven.  The ANOFM will be able to adjust preliminary
allocations as they see fit given the responses from service providers. The one exception is with
respect to temporary community employment activities where the maximum that can be expended
is restricted to 25 percent of the total allocation (combined labor redeployment fund and
micro-credit fund). The reason for this is that temporary community employment activities tend
to be much less effective in creating permanent employment in comparison to the other
interventions. There is a requirement for predetermined placement targets (e.g. minimum of 80
percent for on-the-job training). The payments to service providers will be partially based on
whether or not these targets are met or exceeded.
- 46 -



Included within the combined labor redeployment fund and micro enterprise fund are two
special sub-allocations: US$ 3.00 million will be dedicated to ex-military personnel and US$ 3.00
million will be dedicated to former civil service employees. In the next four years, the military is
expected to downsize by around 4,500 individuals per year with perhaps a similar level for the
civil service. In general, there will not be separate agreements with service providers for
ex-military personnel or former civil service workers. For example, a vocational training
agreement could include participants from both groups and participants from within the regular
unemployed. Specific principles and criteria for each labor redeployment intervention are
included in Annex 11.
Inputs:       TA and LRP Services
Finance:      Bank US$ 20.77 million; Government US$ 5.57 million
Outputs:      New enterprises established; workers trained; workers placed in new
employment
Outcome:      Unemployment reduced, small business development.
Responsible Unit:    ANOFM
(b) Micro-credit (US$ 12.12 million): This sub component will establish up to 12
micro-credit agencies (each with a revolving fund) for the purpose of providing financing to micro
enterprises. At least one micro-credit agency will be established in each of the 8 economic
regions of the country. The minimum size of the revolving fund to ensure long term viability is
Euro 1 million. The administrators of the micro-credit agencies will be accredited NGOs and
other financial intermediaries with prior experience in the delivery of micro-credit financing.
The ANOFM will be responsible for selecting and contracting with micro-credit agencies
and the overall supervision of the funds. The international and local technical experts described in
the LRP component will also provide expertise with respect to the delivery of this
sub-component. The micro-credit financing sub-component and the LRP sub-component will be
closely linked.
Small business assistance clients and incubated clients participating under the existing
ESPP state that their biggest single obstacle in starting a successful business is access to credit. It
is expected that this sub-component will provide financing to approximately 1,850
micro-enterprises over four years at an average expected loan of US$ 6,500 (with a ceiling of
US$ 9,000). Assuming that each micro enterprise creates 3 jobs (owner plus two employees) it is
possible that 5,550 jobs will be created in the first round. Since the loans are to be repaid and
loaned out again, it is expected that approximately 500 loans will be made in each subsequent year
creating approximately 1,300 jobs each year thereafter. The administration costs and the costs
associated with bad loans, will be borne from the interest and fees earned by the micro-credit
agency. Specific principles and criteria for the micro-credit financing sub-component are included
in Annex 12.
Inputs:              Micro-credit
Finance:             IBRD US$ 12.00 million; Government US$ 0.12
- 47 -



Outputs:            Micro-loans made
Outcome:            New enterprises established, unemployment reduced.
Responsible Unit:    ANOFM
Project Component 4 - US$19.69 million
Component IV - Social Assistance Strengthening
The SSD loan will support the implementation of the new institutional framework for
social assistance which will be introduced under the new Law on Social Assistance. This SSD
component has three sub-components: (a) institution-building based upon pilot social assistance
offices at the judets level; (b) personnel development; and (c) communications. The recurrent
costs of this component over the project life are US$ 1.75 million, to be financed by the
Government.
(a) Institution  Building  (US$  14.18 million).   This component supports the
development of the institutional capacity of the MMSS to implement the new legislative
framework for social assistance including: (i) development of organizational and administrative
arrangements and procedures for the roll-out of the reformned system; (ii) rehabilitation and
refurbishment of the Judet Directorates of the MMSS (JDMMSS); (iii) improved information
flows and usage; (iv) personnel development and (v) communications.
(i) Capacity building for system roll-out: In order to support the implementation of the
new Laws on Social Assistance and the MIG benefit the project will support capacity building
at all levels of the system. TA will be provided to elaborate the institutional framework for
social assistance, including developing regulations for the new legislation, defining
organizational arrangements and preparing procedural manuals for staff at the central, judet
and municipal levels involved in different types of service provision. The first priority will be
the preparation a strategic plan for the roll-out of the system with key dates and targets for
implementation. An essential element of this plan will be the development and testing of
institutional arrangements in the JDMMSS offices and relations with the central MMSS and
local councils. The institutional assessment of the MMSS will be an important input into this
process.
Specific areas of focus will include development and installation of fraud protection
mechanisms within the system, human resources policy, and operating procedures for
Mediation Comrnmissions, which will be set up in each judet to address appeals and resolve
disputes brought forward by the public. Another area of emphasis will be the development of
standards for service delivery and provisions for monitoring and enforcing these standards for
social benefits and different types of social services. A particularly important objective will be
to develop standards which can be applied to services contracted out to NGOs, local councils
and other community based services. In each of these areas, relevant international expertise
from EU and other Eastern Europe countries will be brought in through international TA,
twinning, internships and targeted study visits for MMSS staff.
- 48 -



Monitoring and evaluation will be an important element of the reforms in social assistance, in
order to ensure that the changes in program design, institutional arrangements and resource
allocation have their intended impact. In addition to on-going monitoring and capacity
development provided under Component I of this project, the DSA within the MMSS will
contract specialized studies throughout the project period to follow up in depth on specific
aspects within the system. These could include focused studies on target groups (e.g. elderly,
the disabled), or an update of the MMSS's White Paper.
Inputs:   TA, twinning, intemational internships & study tours, M&E studies.
Financing: EU US$ 1.22 million
Outputs:     Secondary regulations, procedures and organizational manuals prepared.
Outcomes:   New legislation implemented, institutional capacity in place.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(ii) Pilot social assistance initiatives: The project will include a facility for activities for
piloting new arrangements under the new framework Law. The objectives of the pilots will be
to improve responsiveness and quality of social assistance services through improved
governance, transparency and institutional linkages between local and judet levels and with
civil society organizations involved in service provision (e.g. NGOs, churches, advocacy
groups). The details of this facility will be further developed with UK DFID during the
preparatory phase of the project. Activities will be closely monitored in order to determine the
sustainability and replicability of different approaches and results and will be disseminated
throughout the MMSS and local councils. Evaluation will include quantitative output analysis
as well as qualitative assessment of beneficiaries.
Inputs:            TA, training, M&E studies.
Financing:         UK DFID US S 0.50 million.
Outputs:           Pilot institutional arrangements for social service delivery.
Outcomes:          Improved responsiveness of service and greater inclusion of
beneficiaries in service design and implementation.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(iii) Rehabilitation of facilities: This activity will upgrade the physical infrastructure of the
social assistance system at the judets level. The system will be implemented by approximately
45 offices in each of the 41 judets and Bucharest (the number of offices in Bucharest has not
yet been determined). A preliminary review of the facilities at the judet level indicated that less
than 10 percent of properties are owned by the MMSS. Over the project period the MMSS
will purchase or secure long-term leases for the remainder of the facilities. Loan funds will
provide resources, on a rolling basis, for redesign and refurbishment of MMSS properties
once property ownership has been clarified. The loan will cover upgrading of 40 percent of
the facilities, amounting to approximately 18 offices. All of the offices in the social assistance
system   will be  provided  with  new  office  equipment and  furniture, including
telecommunications systems and furniture for staff offices, conference rooms and reception
areas.
- 49 -



Inputs:            Works, equipment & furniture
Financing:         Bank US $ 1.15 million: Government US$ 3.73
Outputs:           18 JDMMSS offices rehabilitated; 45 offices furnished.
Outcomes:          Upgraded facilities for social assistance delivery.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(iv) Information technology: The SSD will provide for the automation of the social
assistance system and the development of the MIS for social assistance. This will include
design of software for unified payment of child benefits and other benefits paid by the
JDMMSSs, as well as database architecture for management of the MIG program. Although
the MIG will be delivered through local council offices, the JDMMSSs will be responsible for
maintaining beneficiary and payment informnation and monitoring and evaluation. The
implementation the information technology (IT) system will proceed in three phases: (i) the
pilot of the unified benefit payment system; (ii) development of an integrated database; and
(iii) development and implementation of the new national system. The MIS for social
assistance will maintain and monitor key indicators and feed data into the central MIS in the
MMSS. All of the JDMMSSs and the central DSA within the MMSS will receive IT
equipment. Contracts for this component will include appropriate upgrading of facilities for
the new technology (e.g. wiring and air circulation) and training for staff. The component will
provide equipment for 8 computer-based training centers which will be used for training staff
on the new software and processes.
Inputs:            Computer hardware & software, TA, training.
Financing:         Bank US$ 7.57 million.
Outputs:           MMSS social assistance department and JDMMSSs equipped with
IT, automation completed, MIS created.
Outcomes:          Improved information flows and monitoring capacity, streamlined
procedures.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(b) Personnel Development (US$ 1.71 million):  The project will support the
professionalization of social assistance, including upgrading of skills of staff and development of
specialized expertise. Additional staff will be needed in the JDMMSSs to implement the new
legislation. Estimates based on the functions outlined in the framework Law are that an average of
25 staff will be required in each judet office. Training will be provided for staff in all parts of the
social assistance system: the central MMSS; JDMMSSs as well as local councils. Staff from local
councils will include social referents, the mayor and other appropriate personnel (e.g. accountant),
depending on how responsibilities for social assistance are organized in the locality.
Under the ESPP, the MMSS has identified the broad outlines of a training strategy which
will be further defined under the project. Currently identified priorities include training for MMSS
managers in management and communications. This will build upon training to be provided by
UK DFID in 2001 prior to effectiveness. Training for staff in the JDMMSSs and local councils
will include procedural and technical introductions to the new legislation, computer literacy, and
- 50 -



client relations. Specialized courses will be provided for relevant staff in anti-fraud mechanisms,
mediation and contracting of social services. Select staff from the central MMSS and JDMMSS
will participate in the program of policy M&E outlined under Component 1.
Training courses will be prepared with the input of international and local consultants.
Content of courses and materials will be developed in conjunction with the institution building
activities described above (e.g. preparation of procedural manuals). The methodology for each
type of training will be defined through the preliminary needs analysis. Training will be delivered
both in classroom format and on the job. Training capacity will be developed within the MMSS
through training of trainers at the judet level who will be able to deliver training to staff in the
JDMSSs and local councils. Existing training centers of the MMSS will be used, as well as 8
computer-based training centers to be created under the project.
Inputs:            TA, training materials & courses.
Financing:         EU US$ 1.71 million
Outputs:           MMSS, JDMMSS and local council staff trained.
Outcomes:          Improved human resource capacity in social assistance, improved
quality and responsiveness of service.
Responsible Utnit:    MMSS (DSA)
(c) Communications (US$ 2.05 million)
(i) Research and Strategy Development: Social marketing research will be undertaken to
develop a strategy for communications within the social assistance system. The research will
focus on main issues including public perceptions of social assistance objectives, programs,
services and beneficiaries, as well as the level of awareness of programs and eligibility criteria.
Information will be gathered from the general public, potential beneficiaries and staff within
the MMSS. Research will be based upon different methodologies including qualitative and
quantitative methods, and will create a baseline for follow up assessment of the impact of
social assistance reforms. The findings of the analysis will be discussed and disseminated
within the government and used to form the basis of a strategy for communications on social
assistance to the public, and for addressing internal conimunication needs. The research and
development of the strategy will be undertaken by international and local experts in social
marketing and communications strategy.
Inputs:            TA, research expenses
Financing:         EU US$ 0.17 million
Outputs:           MMSS, JDMMSS and local council staff trained.
Outcomes:          Improved human resource capacity in social assistance, improved
quality and responsiveness of service.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(ii) Public Information Campaigns: The content of public information activities for social
assistance will be defined in the development of the strategy. However, campaigns are likely
to include media activities, including radio, TV and the development of a MMSS website, as
- 51 -



well as the creation of printed resources for the public on the types of benefits provided, as
well as other information resources such as posters and leaflets.
Inputs:            Media, printed materials, workshops.
Financing:         EU US$ 1.35 million; Government US$ 0.2
Outputs:           TV and radio campaigns, website, brochures, posters, leaflets.
Outcomes:          Improved awareness of the objectives of social assistance
and available benefits and services.
Responsible Unit:    MMSS (DSA)
(iii) Internal MMSS Communications: A number of activities will be developed to improve
communication and information flows within the social assistance system. This will include
monthly meetings between JDMMSS and local council staff to discuss challenges and policy
changes, as well as a newsletter for staff working in all aspects of the system. The newsletter
will provide current information as well as frequently asked questions and sample cases from
around the country. These activities will contribute to improved service through greater
availability of information as well as improvements in staff morale and ownership through
participation.
Inputs:            TA and materials
Financing:         EU US$ 0.25 million
Outputs:           Newsletters, workshops for MMSS and local council staff.
Outcomes:         Improved communication and information flows within the social
assistance system.
Responsible Unit:   MMSS (DSA)
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Loca;        Foreign        T Ital
Prjct Cost By Component                     US $million    US $milion    US $mrilion
1. Policy Development, M&E                                     1.57          0.53           2.10
11. Social Insurance System Reform                            10.88          6.59          17.47
111. Labor Market Adjustment                                  36.15          2.32         38.47
IV. Social Assistance Strengthening                           10.82          8.86          19.68
Total Baseline Cost                                           59.42         18.30          77.73
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs                59.42         18.30         77.73
Front-end fee                       0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required                 59.42         18.30         77.73
Local        Foreign
P oject Cost BY Cateory                    US $million    US $million    US $million
Civil Works                                                      9.08           0.29          9.37
Goods                                                            5.61          13.66         19.27
Technical Assistance                                             3.83           1.52          5.35
Training                                                         3.09           0.41          3.50
Labor Redeployment Services                                    25.43            0.00         25.43
Microcredit                                                     9.69           2.42          12.11
Operating Costs                                                  2.70           0.00          2.70
Total Project Costs      59.43           18.30         77.73
Front-end fee                      0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required       59.43           18.30         77.73
Identifiable taxes and duties are ll.12 (US$tn) and he total project cost. net of taxes. is 66.61 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75 06",
of total project cost tiet of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Economic Analysis Summary
A. PENSION SYSTEM REFORM
1. Pension System To Date
Romania's old-age insurance system was traditionally based on three different schemes: (i)
the State Pension System, a publicly managed PAYG defined-benefit (DB) plan including special
regimes for certain occupations; (ii) a contributory supplemental plan; and (iii) a mostly
non-contributory program for farmers. The main features and shortcomings of this system are
noted below:
The State Pension System: The State Pension System covered all salaried workers.
Self-employed and those with civil contracted could join the system on a voluntary basis. Since
1999, contributions averaged 32.5 percent of gross wages. The Supplemental Retirement Plan
was financed by additional contributions of 5 percent of gross wages. This system was set up in
1968 and the first rights were vested in 1973. Replacement rates provided by the supplemental
scheme ranged from 7 percent for 10 years to 15 percent for 25 years. In 1998, the State Pension
System and the Supplemental Retirement Plan were merged under one umbrella to become the
unified State Pension scheme.
The number of contributors under the State Pension scheme was 5.3 million in 1999
compared to 8.4 million a decade earlier, a decline of more than 35 percent. This drop stemmed
from a growing informal sector, increased evasion, and a restructuring of unprofitable companies
that led to a dismissal of staff. To compensate for the shrinking contribution base, the contribution
rate was successively raised from 14 percent in 1990 to an average of 37.5 percent in 1999, which
in turn raised labor costs.
In the meantime, the number of beneficiaries surged reaching 4.1 million in
1999--including 2.9 million old-age pensioners, 0.6 million disabled, and 0.6 million survivors.
This represents an increase of 89 percent compared to 1989. A large number of insured chose to
retire early due to high unemployment and a benefit formula that did not penalize early retirement.
Disability was also utilized as a way to retire early when the worker did not have sufficient
contribution years to qualify for regular retirement and to facilitate the downsizing of laborforce in
enterprises. In addition, a number of categories associated with "hazardous working conditions"
enjoyed preferential retirement provisions. Throughout the decade, the number of activities
ranked high in temis of labor hardship expanded rapidly. The deteriorating dependency ratio in the
pension scheme led to higher financial imbalances, and the pension system became a growing
burden for the state budget.
The Farmer's System: The Farmers' Social Security System did not require mandatory
contributions. In fact, the number of contributors in this sector has been very low, about 80,000
persons. These contributors are generally close to retirement age. The number of farmers
- 54 -



receiving pension stands at 1.7 million compared to 1.0 million in 1998, an increase of 73 percent.
The Farmer's system was financed through a combination of state subsidies and a special tax
levied on business entities that produced or traded agricultural and food products.
Aging Demographic Profile: The long-term viability of the pension system was even
more doubtful. Imbalances between promised benefits and required contributions could only
grow larger in the medium- and long-term due to the aging population. (See Table 4.1 below on
Romania's demographics.) With an aging population, a matured PAYG pension system financed
with a contribution rate of 37.5 percent and promising a replacement rate of 70 percent after 30
(25) years of contributions and a retirement age of 62 (57) years for men (women) is financially
unsustainable. The system would require a payroll tax rate of 42 percent in 2025 and 60 percent in
2050 to sustain promised benefits.
Figure 4.1: Romania's aging population
1999         2000          2025          2050
Total Population (in millions)   22.4          22.3          20.6         19.1
Old Age Dependency Rate           31.2         31.2          40.2          62.4
Life Expectancy at Birth (M/F)  66.0/73.7    66.2/73.8     69.4/76.2    72.4/78.5
Life Expectancy at age 20 (M/F)  48.6/55.8   48.7/55.8     51.5/58.0    54.3/60.1
Life Expectancy at retirement (M/F)   14.5/21.6  14.6/21.7  16.7/23.6   18.8/25.5
Total Fertility Rate             133.8         135.9         189.3        200.0
Sozurce PROST outputfile.
11. Multi-pillar Reform Strategy
To address the deficiencies of the traditional system, Romania has developed a reform
strategy grounded on a multipillar framework. The first pillar will be based on a rationalized and
improved PAYG scheme; the second pillar, also mandatory, will be funded and privately
managed; and the third pillar will comprise voluntary pension plans, privately managed.
The Reformed Public Pillar: The Law on Public Pension Systems and other Social
Security Benefits (approved in March 2000) and related amendments define the new public pillar
and its administrative structure. The law will become effective on Apnrl 1, 2001. The new public
iaw introduced several important changes:
*   Increase in retirement age - from 55 to 62 years for women and from 60 to 65 for men
over a 13-year period (by September 2014).
*   Increase in years of Service - the standard number of working years required at retirement
will be increased from 30 to 35 years for men, and from 25 to 30 years for women.
*   Coverage expansion - the new law extends coverage of the public scheme to all employed
and self employed citizens including farmers and those with civil contracts. In essence, the
new law provides universal coverage to Romanian workers including time when they are
- 55 -



unemployed. The ANOFM will finance contributions on behalf of the unemployed.
*   Stronger link between contributions and benefits: The benefit formula will be based on a
point system that takes into account an individual's entire contribution history. Every year
of contribution will receive a score that reflects the ratio between the individual's average
gross wage in the given year and the average gross wage in the economy in the same year.
At retirement, points accumulated will be multiplied by a coefficient related to the average
wage in that year in order to calculate the value of the pension. A worker with the
standard number of years is expected to receive a pension equal to 45 percent of the
average gross wage forecasted for the economy as a whole that year. Individuals who
have worked at higher/lower wages, or for longer/shorter periods,
*   Reduction of privileges: The number of categories benefiting from  early retirement
provisions was rationalized.
The Second Pillar: The proposed second pillar embodies strong principles to promote the
safe management of workers' retirement savings. The reform draws from modem intemational
practices on the design of private pension funds and positive pension reform experiences in other
transition economies and countries with less developed capital markets. The most notable
features are:
*   a rigorous licensing procedure for pension fund administrators;
*   legal separation of pension fund assets and pension fund administrators;
_   custody of assets by a well-qualified institution unaffiliated to the pension fund
administrator;
*   individual choice of the particular pension plan and provision of regular information to
contributors;
_   investments are limited  to  securities traded  in  supervised  markets, and foreign
diversification is permitted up to 40 percent of assets; and
*   strong authorities by the supervisor to regulate and enforce regulations supervise fund.
The reform assumes a contribution rate of 10 percent of gross wages to the second pillar
and a decrease in benefits paid to the public pillar, proportional to the share of contributions
allocated to the funded pillar.
The Mono-pillar versus Malti-pillar Reform: The reform of the public scheme will bring
about considerable improvements, improved incentives, reduced intragenerational inequities, and
fiscal savings. The PAYG scheme, however, will continue to show deficits in the future, as Table
4.2 below points out. (For illustrative purposes, Table 4.2 assumes that the reform is introduced
in 2005.) Under a multipillar reform, financial deficits are not fully eradicated, but the public
scheme attains a sounder financial position in the long-term compared to the monopillar reform.
Future needs to modify eligibility requirements (e.g. further increases in retirement age) will be
smaller. Moreover, the public pillar is vulnerable to unexpected demographic and labor changes,
while the funded pillar is self-financing. Thus, the multipillar framework will achieve greater risk
diversification. Transition costs stemming from the introduction of the funded pillar will be high
in the first few years. The government is still developing proposals for phasing in the second pillar
and preparing the corresponding financing plans.
- 56 -



Table 4.2: Summary of Financial Projections of the Public Scheme
Year                                2005j     2010       2030:    2050W       2075'
Deficit as percent of GDP
Under Monopillar system           -0.6%.   -0.5%       -1.2%      -2.3%     -0.8%
Under Multipillar System
Assumes 100% of those
aged 43 to 52 Wll switch          -2.2%      -1.9%     -1.2%:   -1.1%       -0.3%
'Assumes 0% of those
aged 43 to 52 will switch         -1.7%      -1.6%     -1.5%      -1.1%,   -0.3%
B. LABOR MARKET ADJUSTMENT
LRP Delivery Context
The ANOFM has developed considerable experience in the delivery of the following labor
redeployment programs: Employment Services, Community Employment Program, Business
Incubators, Small Business Consulting, Retraining and Local Economic Development Plans. As
of December 2000, 844  contracts with service providers have been  entered  into to provide
services for 62,400  participants for a total cost of US$  7.8 million.    The  following  chart
summarizes activity by program.
Service          Total Value of    Number of        Workers           Workers placed        Unit cost per     Placement
Contracts       Contracts         Served                                    worker            rate
(Completed+                                                                  served
Running)
Employment           1 010,545          93             27,055                5,539                $37             20%
Services
Community Empl.        $4,820.577         561            11,964         976 (long term empl).       $403             8%
Programs (Public
Works)
Business /I          $266,155            3              141                  108                  Na               Na
Incubators
Small Business        $936,216            94            20,285                3,789                 $46             19%
Consultancy
Retraining          $448,294            57            2,955                  998                 $152             33%
Local Economic        $351,963            34               0                    0                   Na               Na
Development Plans
Total            $7,833,750          844            62,400               11,254
- 57 -



Social Assessment of Unemployment in Romania
A comprehensive study on unemployment in Romania entitled "Social Assessment:
Unemployment in Romania" was completed in December 2000 by Sharon Holt. Some of the
main themes that are presented in this report and of particular relevance to this project are as
follows:
*  Unemployment is primarily because of inadequate demand for labor as opposed to
frictional or structural causes;
*  Further restructuring to reduce governmnent resources going toward supporting SEs is
required;
*  Passive programs, particularly unemployment insurance and severance are too generous
and reduce the incentive to work;
* Need to improve the quality of employment counseling and labor exchange services; and
e Need to improve the quality of training and the way in which it is delivered.
Conclusions
Viewing Romania through the lens of a detailed study of the unemployed and potentially
unemployed generates three images. One is the collective self-portrait of the disponibilizati
(redundant workers who have been laid off on mass from SEs) themselves; the other is a picture
of the workers who are still employed at SEs but who are faced with another round of mass lay
offs; and the third is their image of the economy and society in which these two groups live. Most
of the disponibilizati (unemployed, available for work) either live in poverty or on its very edge.
Those in the fortunate minority who have regular, full time jobs with a labor contract earn enough
to keep their bellies full and perhaps own a few consumer durables to make their lives somewhat
easier and more pleasant, but too many worry that they may again be declared redundant and slip
into poverty. Those in the middle receive a regular unemployment benefit which may be quite
generous, but the probability that they will find regular employment before the payments cease it
not large and without the benefits or a job they will slip into the ranks of the poor.
The workers who are still at SEs are definitely better off than their former colleagues who
were laid off in previous rounds of restructuring. However, they too are in a surprisingly
precarious position. Virtually all of them are in debt and not because they have been purchasing
houses or other major assets. Rather they are in debt because their income in not sufficient to
cover basic expenses. Hence, they borrow to buy food, to purchase clothes, and to pay for
medical emergencies. Further, most are rightfully worried about their job security. Yet few have
taken any steps to prepare for unemployment and fewer still are familiar unemployment benefits
or programs.
- 58 -



The image obtained of the larger economy from the survey and the focus groups is equally
bleak. During the lay-offs associated with the first restructuring, there was some sense of
optimism. There was some recognition of the severe problems in their places of work and some
thought that restructuring would soon lead to better jobs under better working conditions. But as
the mass lay-offs continued, workers soon began to see their managers at best as incompetents,
and at worst, corrupt bosses who had ways of feathering their own nests in the repeating series of
restructurings that never led to more efficient firms with plenty of good jobs. This image of the
economy is certainly distorted, constructed as it is by aggregating the perceptions of those who
experienced a narrow slice of reality that revealed largely only the downside of the transition in
Romania.
The incidence of unemployment, under employment, and poverty are too high. And this is
not because the disponibilizati or workers are lazy and unmotivated. Nor is it because there is so
much friction in the labor market that the unemployed do not know about available employment
opportunities or cannot move to accept what positions are available. The main problem is the
economy is not producing nearly enough productive jobs. Get the economy growing at
appropriate rates and the plight of redundant workers will, over time, be alleviated. Some specific
efforts at reviving the economy that involve developing an improved (and more stable) regulatory
framework for business (and workers) and reducing bureaucratic controls and corruption will be
particularly good for small business and business start ups, which should help in job creation. But
these changes must also be taken in a broader macroeconomic context and these topics are
beyond the scope of this study.
The data indicate that there are some problems. Disponibilizati who are receiving
unemployment benefits but are not in the labor force are in households where the expenditure
level is among the highest in the sample. Those with benefits who are in the labor force but
unemployed are in households that are better off than those who are employed in casual labor.
These findings suggest that the incentive system is not right. At least some of the benefits are too
high relative to existing wages. In the age group with which the LRP is dealing (virtually all under
age 55), people receiving unemployment benefits (or severance pay) should not be so comfortable
living out of the work force; they should have strong economic incentives to be engaged in
productive labor.
The fact that there is no correlation between levels of education and participation in the
labor force but there is a relationship between having just a primary school education and the
probability of being in a poor household also warrants some attention. It would be expected that
those with more education would receive higher wages when employed and thus would be more
likely to be in better off households, which fits the observed pattern. It is also to be expected that
those who could conmmand higher wages would be more likely to be in the labor force, but that is
not true in this population.
If the benefit packages are creating some perverse incentives, it would be useful to
speculate the reasons why they were put in place, before suggesting alternatives. In the United
States (and in some other parts of the Western world) unemployment benefits are not conceived
- 59 -



of as welfare payments but as help in tiding the unemployed over until other suitable employment
is found. It takes time for the person who has been laid off to find other opportunities. It may be
necessary to relocate to get a good job, which costs both time and money. Unemployment
benefits are provided so that the discharged worker does not have to bear the full costs of this
friction in the labor market. At the beginning of the transition in Romania the thinking was
probably quite similar. It was clearly recognized that there were gross inefficiencies in the
economy, that restructuring was essential, but that the result would be greater efficiency,
productivity and output and probably better, if not more jobs. Unemployment benefits would be
needed to support the disponibilizati until the economic recovery picked up steam. The expected
job creation did not materialize in the magnitude anticipated. What was predicted to be a
short-term unemployment problem has evolved into a long-termn social welfare problem; yet the
policies are not in place to address this problem.
The absence of an effective social assistance program has had another economically
unfortunate consequence. Large numbers of the disponibilizati have sought casual employment in
agriculture with the result that labor productivity in agriculture has declined precipitously. As
agriculture reverts to a subsistence mode of production, it cannot help the economy recover and
may in fact be doing the reverse. As attention is devoted to a new social assistance program,
particular efforts must be made to shape this program so that it relieves the strong incentive for
the disponibilizati to return to the farms and convert them to a subsistence form of production.
Such attention is absolutely necessary to give the agricultural sector some chance of increasing its
productivity and output.
The report makes recommendations for two major and inter-related program shifts. One is
to revise significantly the program of unemployment benefits and severance packages to eliminate
the perverse incentives that may be keeping many out of the labor force while essentially ignoring
the unemployed who are in desperate poverty. The second is to shift some attention away from a
narrow focus on unemployment, and develop a program of social assistance for those who are in
dire poverty.
First, the main emphasis of the govemrnments' current employment programs are aimed
primarily at passive measures. Active labor market interventions such as job counseling and
retraining require greater attention. But these programs are only worthwhile investing in if they
are done properly. Improvements could be made in job counseling relatively quickly. ANOFM
officials should offer all workers eligible for unemployment benefits the option to have counseling
and local job openings should be posted clearly in each agency office and updated regularly.
Making improvements in retraining will prove more costly and a greater challenge. Money spent
on retraining a worker with useless or inadequate skills is money wasted.
A worker-training program jointly financed by the govemment and by the private firms
that are seeking additional labor could make a contribution to economic development and increase
the disponibilizati's chances of finding a good position.
There are, however, dangers in job retraining programs some of which are apparent in the
data presented on education and employment. Having a general education is better than having
- 60 -



specific vocational school training, which is better than having on the job vocational training. The
more dedicated the training for a specific task, the more vulnerable the worker to discharge and
the more difficult it is retrain the worker for a different task. Firms like workers trained for
specific tasks particularly if someone else pays the training costs and they like a large supply of
workers for every job because that relieves pressure for wage increases. Thus care must be
exercised in providing public funds worker- training programs. Firms in Romania tend to have
serious cash flow problems and are reluctant to provide training for anything but very specific
positions for which they find workers in very short supply. The best projects will probably be
those where the government joins with private firms by splitting the cost. The private firms will
provide the training with an on-the-job component; the govemment will insist upon the inclusion
of training in more general skills as a component of the program. The ANOFM has begun efforts
to promote such private public partnerships, but to date their impact has been too small.
Second, greater effort could be made to improve the process of enterprise restructuring.
Restructuring should not simply be a code word for mass lay-offs. They should result in major
structural changes in the was companies are organized, operated, and managed. This implies many
old managers should probably go. Further, while more restructuring will be required, especially at
the largest SEs to improve economic efficiency and increase the likelihood of privatization,
greater investment should be made by the enterprises and the employment agency to improve
workers' knowledge of restructuring and employment and retraining programs. The ANOFM is
taking steps in this direction, but they clearly have farther to go.
C. Social Assistance
The Minimum Guaranteed Income (MIG) Program
The SSD Loan aims to strengthen Romania's safety net. In April 1995, Romania introduced
means-tested social assistance benefits (MTSAB), which were designed to be the principal income
support mechanism for households with incomes below an established minimum threshold.
Although the program was intended to serve as a safety net, it has proven ill-suited due to
limitations in coverage, targeting and adequacy. Under the Government's reform program, the
MTSB will be replaced by the new MIG benefit.
According to the MTSAB legislation (Law 67/1997) the program provides support, by
matching the difference between the level of the household's total income (cash and in-kind) and a
poverty threshold. This threshold was set deliberately quite low, to cover roughly the first decile
of the population. This Annex discusses the issues facing the program which underpin the policy
measures and investments supported by the SSD loan. Analysis draws from the Romania
Integrated Household Survey.
Coverage. Coverage of the MTSAB has eroded more sharply in real termns than any other
cash transfer. By 1998 the program covered roughly the poorest 0.5 percent of the population.
The level of the benefit threshold rapidly restricted eligibility. By design, the program was
supposed to serve about 440,000 households (first decile), but it reached maximum 180,000 in
1996. By 1998, this number dropped to less than 50,000 households. Much of this drop occurred
in 1997, when the funding responsibilities were transferred from the central to local budgets. After
this change, field investigation reported an uneven application of the law and substantial arrears in
- 61 -



the disbursement of benefits.
Table 1: Means Tested Social Assistance Benefits: Evolution of Beneficiaries
and Benefit Levels
No of         No of    MIG per person,  Real Benefit   Replacement
Beneficiaries*,  Households*    '000 ROL    Q1/95=100        ratio
'000s HHs    Q1/95=100
Q3/95        122           100            45            100           19.9
Q4/95        122           100            47            96            18.3
Q11/96       184           150            47            90            18.5
Q2/96        184           150            47            84            16.0
Q3/96        184           150            53            83            15.7
Q4/96        184           150            57            77            14.3
Q1/97        88            72             83            73            18.2
Q2/97        88            72             88            56            15.1
Q3/97        88            72            101            60            15.2
Q4/97        88            72            115            60            13.5
Q1/98        49            40            115            51            12.7
Q2/98        49            40            132            54            12.8
Q3/98        49            40            141            55            12.6
Q4/98        49            40            151            55            12.2
Source: Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, Quarterly Bulleting and NCS
Note: only annual average number of HHS was available
Figure 1 Social Aid Income Threshold as Share of the Poverty Line
900
60
60J
40
031- 04,95 Q1/96 Q16 Q396 04t96 Q1/97 02/97 03/97 Q4/97 Q1/98 Q2/98 Q3/96 04198
l    ..G. IPoverIty Line * MIG I Extreme Povety Line
Source: RIHS
Targeting. Companson of the program threshold for the first person (one adult equivalent)
with two different poverty lines -- "regular" and "extreme" -- illustrates the targeting of the
program. Regular poverty is 60 percent of monthly average consumption per adult equivalent, and
extreme poverty is 40 percent of the measure. Figure 1 shows the ratios between these quantities,
and their evolution over time. At the beginning of the program, the threshold was close to the "
extreme poverty line" (equal to 85 percent of it). The extreme poverty line, in turn, covered the
poorest decile in 1995, 1997 and 1998. The program threshold was eroded by inflation until the
first quarter of 1997, when it represented only 50 percent of the "extreme poverty line". After that
date, the real level of the threshold stabilized. Compared with the "regular" poverty line, the social
aid threshold represented little less than 60 percent of the line in 1995, and stabilized to one third
- 62 -



after 1997. Both comparisons suggest that in 1995 the program target group was, roughly, the
poorest decile of Romanian population. Starting in 1997, by cutting the real value of the program
threshold in half, the program target group declined to 0.5 percent of the Romanian population.
By area of residence, the figures are 0.4 percent of the rural inhabitants and 0.7 percent of the
rural. These figures are close to the incidence reported by the official statistics, or by survey
estimates. If the program would go to these ultra-ultra poor, its coverage and targeting would be
good.
The study analyzed who, among social assistance beneficiaries, would qualify for the
program under the current (1998) program threshold to find out if the social aid program reached
its target group and if it had a reasonable coverage. Table 2 presents the estimates for 1998.
About 0.4 percent of Romanians benefited from social assistance. Of those, only 15.6 percent
have a lower consumption (per adult equivalent) than the program threshold. Consequently,
program targeting (inclusion errors) is very high (84.4 percent), although many of those are in
extreme poverty, and even more are "regular" poor. The program failed to cover much of those
whose consumption is below the program threshold: the program serviced only 6.8 percent of
those in 1998. This estimate suggests that the program is weak in identifying the ultra-poor
population (according to the definition used in the regulations), but fares reasonably well in
targeting some of the extreme poor, and - obviously - even better at targeting the "regular" poor.
The main problem is the low program coverage.
Table 2: Social Aid Program: Inclusion and
Exclusion Errors in 1998
Social Aid Benefidary?
No    Yes   Total
Social Aid   No   99.2   84.4   99.1
Poor?   Yes    0.8   15.6    0.9
Total  100.0  100.0  100.0
No    Yes   Total
Social Aid   No   99.7    0.3  100.0
Poor?   Yes   93.2    6.8  100.0
Total   99.6    0.4  100.0
Source: Own Estimations based on the LSMS Archive 1998
Adequacy. In addition to low coverage, MTSAB benefit levels are inadequate to address
poverty. Overall expenditures on the program are low. In 1997, overall expenditures on MTSAB
was only 0.05 percent of GDP. The benefit is equal to the difference between the income
threshold and household income. To avoid a 100 percent marginal tax, some benefits with a
poverty alleviation focus, such as the incremental family allowance are excluded from calculations
of the income base. There is no benchmark to establish the minimum income. In practice, the
program does not aim to cover the difference between the poverty line (not even the extreme
poverty line) and actual income. The amount covered depends on the judgment of local social
assistance workers. The ratio of the minimum income per person to the average net wage was 12
percent at the end of 1997, down from 20 percent in August 1995, the date when the program
was first introduced. As currently designed, the MTSAB program contributes little to poverty
alleviation. From 1995 to 1997, the rise in (current) poverty headcount associated with an
absence of all social assistance spending includes the MTSAB and other targeted benefits
- 63 -



including emergency benefits and a bread subsidy. would be less than half percentage point.
Administrative charges and opportunity costs of receiving social assistance, particularly
the means-tested social assistance benefit, can exceed the actual amount of the benefit.
Beneficiary assessment illustrated that transportation and administrative costs can reduce the
value of benefits and deter eligible beneficiaries from applying. Transportation costs are especially
high for households in remote areas which need to travel to the local council to apply for benefits.
Application charges, such as documentation certifying income, can also increase the costs. A local
council official in Nadrag in Hundedoara Judet noted:
"A file for a person costs: 34,000 lei transportation to Lugoj, certificate of
income, 5,000 lei, copies - 20,000 lei. If people have to get the difference of about
10, 000 or 11,000 they give up. The benefit for one person is about 160, 000 lei. "
Similar difficulties were reported for applicants of scholarships for low income students.
Households are required to present documentation and approvals from different offices in the
local administrations and the schools every year to become eligible. Beneficiaries in some of the
poorer areas: Babadag, Sarichioi, Vaslui and Zapodeni, reported that even when they had
succeeded in securing the necessary certifications, they did not receive benefits because the local
council was unable to cover the costs. In Babadag and Sarichioi, the local councils would not
certify households for eligibility if they had any outstanding financial obligations to the local
government.
Financing Arrangements and Sustainability. Field studies indicated that the MTSAB
program - implemented and funded by local authorities - suffers from horizontal inequities, and
that wealthy judets fare better than poor ones. These findings may explain, in part, why the
program has such poor targeting. To test this hypothesis, we used 1998 administrative data on the
amount of claims approved, amount of benefits disbursed, and local budget expenditure per capita
- the last indicator signaling rich versus poor local communities. The scatterplot of the first two
series over the third is shown in Figure 2, and signals the positive correlation between the
richness" of the local budget and the size of the social aid programs implemented. This contradicts
our expectations. One would expect that poor judets have more poor people, and would have
larger social assistance expenditures that the richer ones. The facts show the opposite. Richer
communities serve their poor well, and are even able to cover some of those that are above, but
close to the program threshold. In contrast, poor communities with a high incidence of poverty
would have fewer budgetary resources, and will not be able to cover their pockets of the
ultra-poor.
- 64 -



Figure 2: Social Assistance and Local Budgets in 1998
10
o                              Hunedoara
Dambovita
Iasi
>  6                  Gatati
>1               ~~~~~~Olt   AracP
05                    Do
Prahova      Cluj
4                                            Brasov
E_                     M r  e Sibiu    Constanta
E               Giri       1i ro
'                          a-6lbsani    Tulcea
-2  2                   Buz                  Timis
<                   <%ea9i2ga -Mare
7                 IH nCDISrasi  m    Salaj
o_                      Bisirta-N5s8uct-
.2              .4               .6              .8
Local Budget Revenues, per Capita ('000 ROL)
6                           ,-runeoara
:-o
Dimb         I~~~~~~~asi
6               DdmbovitaGaiat,
O                                  Arad
Ir                      Olta
m              ~~~~~~~~~DoIjc
co                        Prahova
45                        ..          Cuj
C) 4                        n          Clu; Brasov
ui              ~~~~~~Marears
T MaanSibiu    Constanta
E              Giurgiu   MAOf  C Wlsa        Tulcea
,au2                Bac5sz        Ae
:ro2Giru                                    Timis
n             ~~~~Ne;gi?favIl.Mare  
a~~~~~~~~~~Mr
<                 llfOVc  iCa:15rasil
0                       Bigtrita-Nas5ud    Salaj
0 
.2               4                6                8
Local Budget Revenues per Capita ('000 ROL)
Note: Excludes Bucharest.
An assessment of the implementation of MTSAB in a sample of local governments
documented coping strategies that local officials have employed to deal with the lack of resources
at the local level (The Local Social Services Delivery Study, draft 2001, The World Bank). Three
of the five communes in the study stopped paying the MTSAB completely in 1999, while the
other two paid the benefit irregularly. Babadag in Timis Judet stopped paying altogether in 1997.
In the cases where benefits were paid, delays were reported to be frequent because of the lack of
funds and absence of personnel to deliver benefits. Some local councils have attempted to
compensate for the lack of benefits by providing people with meals from soup kitchens. In Tirgu
- 65 -



Secuiesc in Covasna Judet the local council paid the benefit only during the winter. The exception
in the study was Bucharest, where benefits were paid regularly.
Local councils have adopted various strategies to limit the number of beneficiaries of the
MTSAB. Local councils in Babadag and Vaslui opted to grant to the benefit only to the ill or
elderly, while others added additional eligibility criteria to exclude certain groups. In Lugoj the
local council stopped paying benefits to individuals who had never worked, entrepreneurs
(regardless of their income), and families with children who are not attending school. In Tirgu
Secuiesc, the local council attempts to screen applicants for informal economic activity and
requires that potential beneficiaries present their passports, to determine whether they are
involved in cross-border trade. Some local councils conditioned benefit receipt on participation in
public works. In Vaslul, Lugoj, Nadrag and Tirgu Secuiesc, beneficiaries are required to work
from four hours per day to five days per month. An administrator in Vaslui described an extreme
strategy for transferring responsibility for paying the MTSAB benefit elsewhere, explaining that
[wie try to encourage those who askfor assistance to move to the villages. "
Centralization of financing is necessary to address these gaps at the local level. If program
funding is left to local resources, then poor communities will not be able to generate as much
resources as the richer ones, despite the fact that their needs are higher. Poor communities face
difficult choices in the composition of program expenditures. In practice, the opportunistic
behavior of local administrators in poor communities aggravates the situation. The program
targets a marginal stratum of their constituencies, the ultra-poor. Faced with the choice of
servicing this group, or funding benefits that most of the voters would capture (such as health and
education, roads, garbage collection and sewage), it is not surprising that the second option was
chosen.. The program design failed to take into account "political economy" considerations.
To enhance program effectiveness in achieving his goal, two changes in program design are
critical:
*   transfer funding responsibility from local to central level; and
*  provide necessary funding to cover at least the "extremely poor".
The second recommendation is a natural extension of the previous remarks. Inadequate
funding in the past has generated either a tightening of the program's eligibility criteria, or arrears
in the disbursement of the benefits. As these funds goes to the most needy strata of the
population, unable to smooth their consumption over time through saving and dis-saving, the lack
of support in some periods will thrown them into malnutrition, with damaging consequences for
their future. Although the payment's arrears is a way local government levy "seniorage tax" from
their constituencies, it is pity that such practice hurts the ones in most need.
Social Assistance in Context
As a whole, Romania's cash benefits do contribute substantially to poverty alleviation. The
cash transfer system reduces poverty substantially, even when pensions are not included in the
analysis. In the absence of all cash transfers (pensions included), the poverty rate would increase
by 70 to 96 percent, from 25.3 to 45.3 percent in 1995, 19.9 to 39.3 percent in 1996 and 30.8 to
52.3 percent in 1997. Much of this increase in the number of poor, between 70 and 80 percent,
would occur in the absence of pensions, or if pension replacement rates would deteriorate
- 66 -



substantially. In the absence of all cash transfers but pensions, the poverty rate would increase by
17 to 18 percent, from 25.3 to 30.4 percent in 1995, 19.9 to 23.8 percent in 1996 and 30.8 to
36.9 percent in 1997.
Figure 2. Lifting the Poor out of Poverty
55
45                  1996          1997
30~~~~~~~~~~~0
C25
= 25
20
.g    20
1995         1996         1997
E3 pre transfer * but pensions 0 post tr,nsfer _|
2522
0 .          _
IL                ___11.
95
1995         1996         1997
0 pre transfer U but pensions 0 posttase
Source: Estimations based on the 1995-97 LSMS Archive
The cash transfer system has even a greater impact in reducing the overall poverty deficit.
The headcount rate tends to underestimate the poverty alleviation impact, as it does not take into
account the fact that transfers may also alleviate the severity of poverty of those still poor.
Another measure, the poverty gap, is sensitive both to the depth and incidence of poverty. In the
absence of all cash transfers, the poverty gap would increase by 2.8 to 3.8 times, much more than
the number of poor. As before, much of this increase in the poverty deficit would occur in the
absence of pensions. or if pension replacement rates would deteriorate substantially. In the
absence of all cash transfers but pensions, poverty gap would increase by 45 to 47 percent.
Which cash programs besides pensions had the greatest contribution to poverty alleviation?
In comparison with the pre-transfers but pension situation, the two programs with the largest
impact on poverty alleviation are the child allowance and the unemployment benefit. These two
programs tackled most of the potential poverty. Between 1995-96, unemployment benefit reduced
the pre-transfer (but pension) headcount by 34-39 percent, and child allowances by 44-50 percent.
- 67 -



In 1997, the upward adjustment in the child allowance resulted in an increased contribution of this
instrument in poverty alleviation, at the expense of the unemployment benefit and other,
non-contributory programs. As above, the reduction in poverty gap was even larger, as illustrated
in Figure 4 for 1997.
Figure 3. Contribution to Poverty Reduction by Type of Program,
1997
40                                         14
,_ 35    36.9-    36.23--6  35.9           1 2
.-11.5~~ 11.1 -4~10.7   -533.1*~~-.3. 
o                                             111 .1    10.7  3028
30                            -.9.4          1 
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
25                                      7,   8 
Z     p 20                     ch
1 5
t 10                                            0~
5                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
pre transfers,  social    unemployment  child  post transfers
but pensions  assistance  benefit  atlow ance
I--po -o P1
Source: Estimations based on the 1995-97 LSMS Archive
Cash transfer programs in Romania do not seek high coverage of poor, but are rather"
specialized" in some poverty risks. The issue with such system is that many poor may fall between
these programs, and would be not assisted. The unemployment benefit substantially reduces the
poverty deficit among households headed by unemployed members, while child allowances do the
same for young households, with many children. As mentioned above, MTSAB has only a
marginal impact, significant for household with illiterate adults, or living in overcrowded houses.
- 68 -



Figure 5 Coverage, Targeting and Effectiveness of Cash Transfers on the Poor, 1997
-100-   ._._        --__---'-I                                        '
90 
80
28     2
168--
C ~~           -- __ _        _                         _    -
40          0                           0 -{
10 I 
-10    0     10    20    30    40    50    60    70    80    90   100
coverage
Social Assistance in Context
As illustrated in Figure 5, social programs falls in three categories, if judged by their
coverage and targeting. First, there are three programs that have little coverage and targeting,
that can not be justified from a poverty alleviation point of view: the indemnnity for politically
persecuted, for war veterans and their widows and scholarships. Fortunately, these programs are
minor expenditure items and, except scholarships, have a different social goal, to reward citizens
with special merits and their dependents. The efficiency of the scholarship program is
questionable. In the design phase, most of the scholarships fulfill social function, with only few of
them being awarded for "merit", variable that might be unrelated with the income of the recipient.
Ex-post, however, most of the scholarships (27 percent of funds in 1997) went to non-poor, a
figure that is much lower than the share of poor in total population (30.8 percent). Scholarships
seem to have a regressive distributive impact, in favor of children from middle to rich class. The
authors are recommending a thorough review of this instrument, from eligibility through screening
- 69 -



up to benefit delivery, to improve is pro-poor impact.
Second, there are six programs that have relatively good targeting, but low coverage of the
poor: the MTSAB, the unemployment benefit, the social pension, the sickness benefit, the
maternity and child care benefit and the special aid for the disabled. These instruments target
between 54 to 79 percent to poor households, and covers between 1 and 13 percent of the poor in
1997. Three of them cover rare social risks (I percent of the poor), such as maternity, child care,
lack of earning ability due to old age, or sickness, and cover a sizeable portion of poor'
consumption. Similarly, the aid for the disabled cover 4 percent of poor, target 62 percent of
funds to this group and contribute with 19 percent to the consumption of beneficiaries. Next, the
unemployment benefit performs very well, covering 13 of total poor population, targeting 68
percent of the program expenditures to this group and contributing with 29 percent to the average
consumption of poor beneficiaries. The minimum income guarantee, a means tested scheme to
provide shield against deep poverty, covers 8 percent of our relatively "generous" category of
poor (and 62 percent of the very poor individuals), and target 79 percent of the funds to those in
need. MIG scheme contributes to 19 percent to the consumption of the average poor, and
percent to those in deep poverty.
Third, very isolated, is the child allowance scheme. Designed as universal benefit, the child
allowance scheme covers almost all families with children. It reaches 60 percent of the poor
families, the rest being the pensioner or young families without children. Its targeting efficiency
varies, as expected, with the extent of poverty within Romania. In 1997, when poverty was the
highest in the period 1995-97, the program targeting was the highest, at 51 percent, compared
with 34 percent in 1996 (the lowest headcount rate) and 42 percent in 1995 (the middle
headcount rate). The change in the level and formula of the benefit in 1997, although implemented
only in March 2000, has as effect an increase in the program efficacy in helping the poor. Another
factor that contributed to this increase in program efficacy is the reduction of the poor real
consumption in 1997, compared with 1996. The share of program benefit in the consumption of
poor recipients raised from 8 or 9 percent in 1995-96, to 15 percent in 1997. One would expect
this indicator to perform better in 1998, a year of full program implementation.
Finally, Figure 5 illustrates the pro-poor efficiency of the social assistance programs, in
aggregate for 1995-96, and split into MTSAB and the rest, for 1997. First, social assistance
recorded a good targeting performance, except the segment of non-MTSAB programs in 1997.
The coverage of the social assistance is rather limited, although seems to improve in 1997. In this
year, one can distinguish between a well-targeted MTSAB that covers (as mentioned above) 62
percent of the very poor, and the other programs, less targeted but with somehow better
coverage. The efficacy of the program was reduced from 34 (35) percent in 1995 (1996), to 26
percent in 1997.
- 70 -



Figure 6. Efficiency of the Social Assistance Schemes, 1995-97
ISG
90
80
50
20
(5)            5              15            25
coverage
01 995 0 199601997. other 0 1997, MI]
Source: Own Estimates based on LSMS Archives 1995-9
A first conclusion of this analysis is that careful program evaluation impact is important to
understand the consequences of social policies. Surprises may emerge from such assessments,
which challenge current beliefs. An example is the discussion regarding the MTSAB program,
whose minuscule coverage was explained by the impossibility to administer it, and inadequate
funding at local level. Although partly true, the main reason for the "small social aid program" is
its current eligibility criteria, which is so strict that can not cover more than 0.5 percent of the
population. In this regard the governnent's decision to increase financing of the new MIG to 0.4
percent of GDP is essential.
A second conclusion of the analysis is that, with minimal increase in expenditures, more
poverty may be tackled. We suggested two such moves: an increase in the funding and the
minimum income criteria of MTSAB and changes in the allocation of the child allowances to
increase coverage of large families. The first measure will result in a substantial reduction of the
extreme poverty, while the second will reduce the poverty gap of families with many children
facing severe poverty.
- 71 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Romania
Social Sector Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
2001       2002       2003        2004       2005       Total
1. Policy Development, Monitoring and
Evaluation                                199.8      535.0      483.7       452.7      432.7    2,103.8
2. Pension Reform                        1,398.9    3,704.8    5,354.0    4,553.5    2,459.6   17,470.7
3. Labor Market Adjustment               3,240.0    9,314.0    9,314.0    9,314.0    7,286.0   38,468.0
4. Social Assistance Strengthening         96.8    4,010.4    5,558.6     5,509.7    4,514.5   19,689.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                      4,935.4   17,564.2   20,710.2   19,829.8   14,692.7    77,732.5
IBRD Costs
1. Policy Development, Monitoring and
Evaluation                                 72.5      234.7      206.2       195.2      195.2       903.9
2. Pension Reform                        1,008.3    1,689.3    2,588.7    2,171.2    1,355.6     8,813.1
3. Labor Market Adjustment               2,761.5    7,952.7    7,952.7    7,952.7    6,151.1    32,770.8
4. Social Assistance Strengthening           0.0    1,542.4    2,053.7    1,862.4   2,054.3      7,512.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                     3,842.29  11,419.23  12,801.38   12,181.50   9,756.25    50,000.6
Project Costs
Investment Costs                       4,821.3   17,356.0   20,033.8    19,014.5   13,807.9    75,033.5
Recurrent Costs                         114.2      208.2      676.4       815.4      884.8     2,699.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                      4,935.4   17,564.2   20,710.2    19,829.8   14,692.7    77,732.5
Financing
IBRD                                     3,842.3   11,419.2   12,801.4    12,181.5    9,756.3    50,000.6
UK DFID                                     89.0      129.0     204.0       284.0      264.0       970.0
EU                                         96.8      902.1    1,253.1     1,351.7    1,096.5     4,700.2
Government                                 907.4    4,933.9    6,251.7     5,812.6    3,576.0    21,481.6
CIDA                                         0.0     180.0      200.0       200.0        0.0       580.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                      4,935.4   17,564.2   20,710.2    19,829.8   14,692.7    77,732.5
- 72 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Procurement
1.    This section describes the procurement arrangements under the SSD proposed for a Bank Loan of
US$ 50.00 million. Bank-financed Goods and Works contracts under the project will be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
published January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
(henceforth referred to as Procurement Guidelines),  Bank-financed contracts for Consulting Services
required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement
contracts not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations of the
borrower and/or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institutions. The project inputs, estimated
costs and procurement methods are summarized in Table A. The Procurement Plan is shown in Table Al.
Other procurement information, including prior review thresholds for Bank-financed procurement
contracts, and a summary assessment of the procurement capacity of the coordinating and implementing
agencies and the Bank's review processes are presented in Tables BI and B2. For procurement under the
Loan, the Borrower would use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), Standard Form of
Consulting Contracts and Requests for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms.
2.    Notification of Business Opportunities: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published
in the Internet and in the August 2001 issue of Development Business announcing works, goods and
consultant services to be procured, and inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to
express interest and to request any complementary information from the Borrower. The GPN will be
updated annually thereafter for all outstanding procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, and consulting assignments by Shortlist. Specific Procurement Notices will be published at a
later date. For goods to be procured through ICB, individual bidding opportunities would also be
advertised in a major local newspaper thirty (30) days prior to availability of bidding documents and
transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the published GPN. The
local advertisement procedure would be repeated for all bidding packages utilizing ICB (at least 30 days in
advance of availability of the bidding documents). The local advertisements would be in the English
language and at the option of the Borrower, also in the Romanian language. For consultant services
contracts above US$ 200,000 Specific Procurement Notices/Requests for Expressions of Interest will be
advertised in the Development Business and in a major national newspaper (in the national and English
languages). Contracts procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be advertised
in the national paper and/or official gazette at least fifteen (15) days prior to the availability of the bidding
documents.
3.    Procurement Arrangements: Procurement under the Project includes the contracting of works,
goods, consultant services, training, micro-credit and labor redeployment services during the four year
implementation period. The project (total cost - US$ 77.73 million including taxes) is financed by a Bank
Loan of US$ 50.00 million, the Romanian Government, and cofinanced on parallel financing arrangements
by the EU (EU Phare - USS 4.70 million), Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA US$
580,000) and the United Kingdom (UK DFID - US$ 0.97 million). Procurement procedures are described
in the succeeding paragraphs.
- 73 -



4.    The procurement arrangements under the project are primarily based on the Bank appraisal of the
existing procurement management capability of the MMSS, and its implementing institutions including the
PCU. Experience and lessons learned from ongoing Bank operations in the HD sector, especially the
ESPP, have been factored into the design of the implementation and procurement management
arrangements. A Procurement Action Plan has been drawn up, which provides a menu of actions and
recommendations to build procurement capacity in the PCU as well as other organizations which have
responsibility for the execution of the project components, and therefore will be involved in the
procurement process. Procurement and disbursements under the project are synchronized in a manner
allowing for a maximum six-month disbursement lag from the time of completion of a Loan-funded activity
to the release of the Loan funds to the supplier/contractor.  Government entities are not eligible to
participate in the World Bank financed contracts unless they meet the criteria under World Bank Guidelines
that they are legally, managerially and financially autonomous, and operate under commercial Law.
Bank-Financed Procurement
The Bank Loan will finance the procurement of goods (consisting of equipment, furniture, supplies and
materials); consultant services; training, a Microcredit Fund, and Labor Redeployment services. The total
cost of Bank financed procurement is about US$ 77.73 million equivalent, of which the Government will
contribute about $21.48 million equivalent. Bank financed expenditure items will be procured as follows:
5.        Goods
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods consisting of computer hardware and software and
related office equipment which are estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per package, will
be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Bid documentation for ICB will be prepared in accordance with the Bank SBD
for the Procurement of Goods revised in March 2000.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The furniture requirements are of a simple but bulky nature,
that would make its supply and delivery to geographically dispersed locations unattractive to foreign
furniture suppliers, and unsuitable for ICB. Furthermore, Romania has a sufficient number of domestic
furniture manufacturers able to produce such furniture of suitable quality and at competitive prices.
Furniture contracts are not expected to exceed $200,000 but more than US$ 50,000 per package. Thus
fumiture contracts that are estimated at less than US$ 200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate value
equivalent to US$ 810,000, would be procured through NCB in accordance with procedures and bidding
documentation agreed with the Bank.
(c) International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for procurement of small quantities of
off-the-shelf items, such as basic office equipment estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract. IS contracts are estimated to cost up to an aggregate value estimated at US$ 985,000 equivalent.
International shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two different source countries, in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines.
(d) National Shopping (NS). Miscellaneous small quantities of furniture and equipment for the dispersed
project institutions, including minor sundry items, materials and supplies, which are impractical to
aggregate into large packages, and which do not exceed US$ 50,000 per contract, may be purchased on the
basis of prudent NS. NS procedures will be based on a comparison of written price quotations obtained
from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The aggregate value
- 74 -



of NS contracts is estimated at US$ 155,000 equivalent.
6. Consulting Services and Training
(a) Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Services to be procured utilizing the QCBS procedure
include: (i) evaluation studies and beneficiary assessment for MMSS Policy Development (about US$
90,500); (ii) capacity building/training in pension supervision (about US$ 550,000); (iii) data collection for
the Social Assistance MIS  (about USS 650,000); and (iv) administration of the Micro-credit
Fund/Program (aggregate US$ 12.12 million equivalent). The project will establish up to twelve
Micro-credit revolving funds for the purpose of providing financing to micro enterprises. The management
of these funds are intended to be executed by qualified micro-finance institutions (e.g. eligible NGOs. local
banks, credit agencies, etc.) which will be selected using the QCBS method, and in accordance with agreed
criteria and documentation which are described in further detail in the POM. The total aggregate value of
QCBS procurement is estimated at about US $ 13.67 million equivalent.
(b) Consultant Qualifications (CQ) CQ procedures will be used for the selection of institutions and/or
consultant firms that will carry out dispersed/small training programs in-country and abroad under the
project (i.e the training of district staff on pension collection/payment procedures, labor redeployment,
occupational health, and procurement/financial management). The contracts will be less than US$ 100,000
and the aggregate value of training contracts awarded through CQ is estimated at US$ 0.78 million
equivalent. In addition, CQ procedures will be used to contract for the preparation of Analytical/Policy
studies related to Poverty Policy Development (about US$ 90,000).
(c) Individual Consultants (IC).  Individual consultants would be recruited for specific skill
areas/expertise which would be needed for short periods of time at scattered intervals, and which would be
impractical to package with the assignments for consulting firms described above. The required skills
(foreign and local experts) are in the areas of pension payments systems, development of pension archives,
medical rehabilitation, social security administration, information technology, labor redeployment, and
occupational health. The aggregate value of IC contracts is estimated at about US$ 1.22 million
equivalent.
(d) Least Cost Selection (LCS). The consultant services for the annual financial audit of the project
financial statements and Accounts will be procured in accordance with the LCS procedures as described in
the Bank Consultant Guidelines. The aggregate amount of the assignment is estimated at US$ 89,300, and
would cover the financial audit over the four year project implementation period. This expenditure is
technically defined as an operating cost, and would be included in the amount reported as part of the annual
operating budget of the PCU.
(e) Procurement of Labor Redeployment Services. The Project will finance LRP services estimated at an
aggregate US$ 25.43 million equivalent. LRP services are on a demand basis, with proposals solicited
through advertisements in newspapers with broad circulation. Firms submitting proposals must meet
eligibility criteria set out in the Consultant Guidelines; notably enterprises owned by the Romanian
govemment may participate only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous and
operate under commercial law and not a dependent agency of the Government. LRP services contracts
include (a) services generally not expected to exceed US$ 50,000, such as: employment services
(counseling and labor exchange), institutional training/retraining, on the job training, temporary community
employment services/public works projects, and small business assistance; and (b) service contracts for
small business incubators which are not expected to exceed US$ 250,000. Procurement for LRP Services
- 75 -



will be based on Section 3.2 or 3.3 of the Consultant Guidelines (Quality Based Selection), or Section 3.15
of the Procurement Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement), depending on the type of
services being procured. Procurement of LRP services will generally be carried out on a service delivery
contract basis, and will follow criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in Annex 2 and
Annex 11 of the PAD, and further defined and discussed in the Project Operational Manual (POM). These
include, inter alia: (i) the type of community services to be provided, (ii) the agencies eligible to provide
said services, and (iii) the eligible costs that will be reimbursed in the service delivery contracts. Service
contracts for business incubators will be subject to National Competitive Bidding procedures and
documentation agreed with the Bank, as further described in the POM. Procurement under LRP Services
will be undertaken by ANOFM and their local offices. The ANOFM has developed significant experience
in the delivery of active employment interventions through the ESPP, and its capacity respective of
program delivery has been enhanced through local and international technical assistance provided by the
US Department of Labor
Non-Bank Financed Procurement
7. The project includes the procurement of works, goods; consultant services; training, and operational
expenditure items that are not financed by the Bank Loan.. These items are financed on a parallel basis by
EU and DFID, and by the Government. The total cost of non-Bank financed procurement is about USS
18.95 million equivalent. These non-Bank financed expenditure items are the following:
(a)    Works consisting of the refurbishment of existing offices of the CNPAS and DSA
(aggregate US$ 9.37 million equivalent). These works contracts will be procured in accordance
with Romanian Government procedures.
(b)    Goods. Miscellaneous equipment and furniture of a value aggregating to US$ 1.69 million
equivalent will be financed by other donors under a parallel financing arrangement. These Goods
contracts will be procured in accordance with procedures agreed between the development partners
and the Borrower. Procurement will be undertaken and administered by the development partners.
(c)    Services. Miscellaneous consultant services and training packages of a value aggregating
to US$ 5.19 million equivalent will be financed by other donors. These services contracts will be
procured in accordance with procedures agreed between the Donors and the Government.
Procurement will be undertaken and administered by the Donors.
(d)    Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project
include the day-to-day operational costs for project implementation including: consumables and
supplies, utilities, communications, internal travel costs, and salaries of additional national
personnel needed for carrying out the project, among others. These recurrent cost items and
operating requirements are estimated at US$ 2.70 million equivalent and will be planned for and
executed on the basis of annual budgets agreed with the Bank prior to the start of the financial
year. Financing of incremental recurrent costs will be borne fully by the Government and will not
financed by the Bank Loan. Procurement of the related expenditure items and services would be in
accordance with normal Government practice.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
8.    Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out
in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table Al), which will be updated as necessary and
- 76 -



included in the progress reports for Bank review and approval. The Bank will review the procurement
arrangements proposed by the Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the
scheduling of the procurement processes, for its conformity with Bank Procurement and Consultant
Guidelines, the proposed implementation program and disbursement schedule. The following procurement
action and documentation would be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.
(a)       Goods: Equipment, Furniture and Materials: Prior review of bidding document package
(including, inter alia, Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special
Conditions of Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements, Technical Specifications), Bid Evaluation
Reports; Recommendations of Contract award and draft Contract will be conducted for: (i) all ICB tenders
(contracts above $100,000); (ii) the first three fumiture contract awarded through NCB and all NCB
contracts of US$ 100,000 and above; (iii) the first contract awarded through International Shopping; and
(iv) first contract awarded through National Shopping procedures.
(b)       Consultant Services and Training: Prior review of procurement documents and actions will
be conducted for:
(i)    QCBS. Prior review of (1) short listing criteria for consulting assignments, (2) Consultants
Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); (3) complete Request for Proposal (RFP) package
(including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of
Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal standard forms, and draft Contract
Agreement); (4) Terms of Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting
requirements, and required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical and Financial
Evaluation Reports (including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award; and (6)
agreed Contract and Terms of Reference. All QCBS contracts, including all Micro-credit services
contracts will be subject to prior review.
(ii)   IC contracts of US$ 50,000 and above and for contracts with firms valued at US$ 100,000
and above: (1) short listing criteria for consulting assignments, (2) Consultants Short Lists (three to six
consultants per assignment); (3) Technical and Financial Proposal, and draft Contract Agreement); (4)
Terms of Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports
(including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award; and (6) agreed Contract and
Terms of Reference
(iii)  IC contracts below US$ 50,000 and for contracts with Firms below US$ 100,000 (1) criteria
for short listing consultants; and (2) Terms of Reference;
(iv)   CQ consultant contracts Prior review of: (1) short listing criteria for consulting assignment,
(2) Consultants Short List (three to six consultants); (3) Request for Proposal package (including
Invitation, Infornation to Consultants and Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract,
Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal standard forms, and draft Contract Agreement);
(4) Terms of Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (5) Technical Evaluation Report; (6) Minutes of
contract negotiation and recommendation for contract award; and (6) agreed Contract and Terms of
Reference.
- 77 -



(v)    CQ Training contracts. Prior review of expenditures related to the provision of Training -
Terms of Reference and training plan, including budget; and
(vi)   LCS - Prior review of (1) complete Request for Proposal (RFP) package (including Invitation,
Information to Consultants and Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Technical
Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal standard forms, and draft Contract Agreement); (2)
Terms of Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
required qualifications of consultants' key personnel; (3) Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports
(including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract award; and (6) agreed Contract and
Terrns of Reference
(vii)   Labor Redeployment Services. The first three (3) contracts for each type of LRP services,
regardless of value, and all contracts above US$ 50,000 equivalent
9.        Following the award of procurement contracts, the Bank reserves the right to conduct Prior
Review of any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract which would result in
a significant change in the scope of the contract (Terms of Reference in the case of consultant services)
and/or an increase or decrease of more than fifteen percent of the original contract amount.
10.       Post-Review. Those contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold, are subject to the
Bank's ex-post review in accordance with Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. Periodic ex-post
review by the Bank of procurement contracts will be undertaken during regular supervision missions and
will involve about I in 10 contracts for IC services and an average of 1 in 5 contracts for other
procurement.
Custom Duties and Taxes
11.       All goods specifically imported for the project will be subject to the payment of customs duties
and local value-added taxes (VAT) normally equivalent to 20 percent of the CIP costs. Works contracts
are likewise subject to VAT (20 percent built into the contract price). Consultant firms (including foreign
consultants) providing services under the project are exempt from the payment of local taxes on their
eamings.  Individual consultants (regardless of residency) are subject to income tax, including
employer-paid social taxes, and VAT. The aggregate value of local taxes under the project is estimated at
US$ 10.11 million equivalent. All duties and taxed are paid from the Government contribution. Social
taxes are actually a benefit of the employee and a contribution to the social funds for pension,
unemployment, and medical insurance. The payment of these contributions are included in the amount
eligible for Bank financing.
Action Plan for strengthening the PCU Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
12.    Based on the analysis of both the agency's procurement capacity and the information gathered, the
following recommendations are made to improve their capacity to carry out procurement under the project.
*   The existing PCU will hire additional staff to adequately cover the management and administration
of the ESPP as well as the SSD. The Procurement Unit will hire one more Procurement specialist
to cover both goods and consultant services contracts. The Financial Management Unit will also
hire one more financial management specialist.
- 78 -



*   The PCU will be supported by a short-term consultant with expertise in Labor Redeployment
programs and Micro-Credit programs. The consultant will transfer the knowledge to the PCU
staff, in order for the PCU to continue with the programs for the duration of the project.
*   The new staff hired at the PCU should undergo similar training (procurement and financial
management) as the senior staff of the PCU has gone through.
*   During the Project Launch Workshop, a fall day procurement seminar shall be held for all project
related staff from MMSS, lead agencies as well as other participating agencies. PCU staff will be
presenters at the workshop to describe the procedures and processes followed during the
implementation of a WB financed project.
*   The PCU will set a reference library containing all the WB procurement related documentation,
including the updated versions of the Guidelines, templates for Procurement Notices, standard
bidding documents (SBDs)(RFPs), standard evaluation forms, check list and Memorandums, as
well as required forms for input into the WB system.
*  The Procurement Plan included in the PAD must be adhered to and updated periodically.
3   Set up a MIS system that provides for the tracking and monitoring of all contracts. The MIS shall
have the capacity to record the amount of small contracts under the LRP. The system should also
provide for reports/statements of the different portfolios under the micro-credit programs. Samples
from other WB financed projects shall be obtained in order to design the most appropriate system
that will enable updates and linkages to the financial management system for the project.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 79 -



Romania
Social Sector Development
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
International   National
Competitive  Competitive  Intemational    Local   Consulting
Bidding      Bidding     Shopping    Shopping   Services    N.B.F.       Total
A. Works                                   -            -            -          -                9,368.3     9,368.3
B. Goods                            15,632.0        810.0        984.6      154.4           -    1,691.0    19,272.0
(13,080.7)     (660.5)      (805.7)    (127.3)                         (14,674.2)
C. Consultant Services
Individual Consultants /a                -            -            -          -     1,226.8      624.5     1,851.2
(1,127.0)             (1,127.0)
Consultant Firm /b                       -            -            -          -     1,553.5    2,156.0     3,709.5
(1,341.7)             (1,341.7)
Local and Foreign Training /c            -            -            -          -       782.8    2,410.5     3,193.2
(782.8)               (782.8)
Financial Audit /d                       -            -            -          -        89.3          -       89.3
(75.0)                (75.0)
D. Labor Redeployment Services /e          -            -            -          -    25,430.0          -    25,430.0
(20,000.0)            (20,000.0)
E. MicrocreditN                            -            -            -          -    12,120.0          -    12,120.0
(12,000.0)            (12,000.0)
F. Incremental Operations Costs            -            -            -          -           -    2,699.0     2,699.0
Total                                15,632.0        810.0        984.6      154.4    41,202.3   18,949.2    77,732.5
(13,080.7)     (660.5)      (805.7)    (127.3)  (35,326.4)         -  (50,000.6)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
\a Individual Consultant Selection (IC)
\b Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
\c Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
\d Least-Cost Selection Method (LCS)
\e Procurement in accordance with Sections 3.2, 3.3 or 3.15 of Consultant Guidelines
U Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
- 80 -



Tabel Al: PROCUREMENT PLAN                  l__
C                                                Estima
m                                    Procur Num  ted   Prep of             Evaluatio
ement ber ContravalatioContract
P     Descrption of Item      Type  e        of  Ct  BDIRFPIT Invitation/ nl Award Contract Complett
                                    Metho Pack Vaue OR/ Short   SPN    Recomme Signing Conplet
n                                      d   Pac  VaUe$   List                  ndOf
e                                                V000)
nt
PROCUREMENT
GOODS
Medical and Rehabilitation
2 Equipment                   Goods  ICB    1  1,918.0 Dec. 2002 Feb. 2003 June 2002 Sept. 200 Jan. 2004
Special Printers (cuttfng &
2 enveloping)                 Goods  ICB    1  1,590.0 Jan. 2002 March 200, July 2002 Sept. 2002 March 200
4 Photocopiers SA & MIS       Goods  ICB    1   534.6 March 200  May 2002 Sept. 2002 Jan. 2003 Dec. 2003
Telecommunication systems SA
4 & MIS                       Goods  ICB    1   311.7 March 200  Jul-02   Oct. 2002 Dec. 2002 Feb. 2005
Hardware, Software and
4 Installations SA & MIS      Goods  ICB    1  7,335.0 Feb. 2002 June 2002 Sept. 2002 Dec. 2002 Jan. 2005
Computers/Printers (Pensions
2 Supervision)                Goods  ICB    2  1,145.5 Jan. 2002 March 200. July 2003 Oct. 2003 March 200
IT Equipment for judets (PCs,
2 printers, license)          Goods  ICB    1  1,320.0 Jan. 2003 May 2003 Aug. 2003 Nov. 2003 Oct. 2004
IT to supports archiving, hotline
2 and website                 Goods  ICB    1  1,096.5. May 2004 Aug. 2004 Dec. 2004 arch 200 Nov. 2005
2 Office equipment           Goods  ICB    2   532.2 Sept. 2002 Nov. 2002 March 200 May 2003 Aug. 2003
Information System (Medical
2 Expertise)                  Goods  ICB    1   806.8 Nov. 2002 Jan. 2003 Apr. 2003 May 2003 Sept. 200'
1 Computers, printers,       Goods   IS    1    60.0 June 2001 July 2001 Aug. 2001 Auq. 2001 Oct. 2001
Computers, printers,
1 photocopiers, scanners     Goods   IS    1    16.7 June 2002 Aug. 2002 Oct. 2002 Nov. 2002 Dec. 2002
1 Office Furniture           Goods   NS    1    16.2 Jun. 2001  Jul. 2001  Aug. 2001 Aug. 2001 Oct. 2001
1 Office Supplies            Goods   NS  /ariou    5.0           continuing process (2001-2005)
1Library Development         Goods   NS  ariou    4.6            continuing process (2001-2005)
1 Office Supplies            Goods   NS  Warou    7.0            continuing process (2001-2005)
1 Library Fumiture and Equipmen  Goods   NS    1    5.0 Feb. 2002 March 200 Ma 2002 June 2002 Aua. 2002
1 Office Equipment & Fumiture    Goods   NS    1 =13.4 Apr nI2002 May 2002 | June 2002 July 2002 Sept. 2002
Books and Periodicals      Goods   NS  ariou   16.5            continuing process (2002-2005)
Overhead Projectors and
4 flipcharts SA & MIS         Goods   NS  ariou   48.1            contnuig process (2002-2005)
2 Office Furniture           Goods  NCB   1   218.7 Aug. 2002 Oct. 2002 Jan. 2003 March 200 Nov. 2003
4 Office Fumiture SA & MIS   Goods  NCB   1   551. Nov. 20021 Feb. 20031 June 2003J Aug. 20031 Feb. 2004
- 81 -



SERVICES__                     _   __ ___                 _  _   __ _ _   _  _ _  _
Comm
3 Labor Redeployment Fund /a   Services unitm  ariou! 25,430.0 Sep. 2001 Oct. 2001 Dec. 2001 Jan. 2002   2005
1 Finanical Audit            Services LCS   1       89.3 Apr. 2003 May 2003 June 2003 June 2003 Set. 2005
3 12 micro-credit Revolving Funds Services QCBS  12 12,120.0 Jun. 1905 Oct. 2001 Dec. 2001 Jan. 2002 Jun. 1905
1 Evaluation Studies         Services QCBS   1    380.0 March 2002 May 2002 Aug. 2002 Nov. 2002 Nov. 2005
1 Beneficiary Assessment     Services QCBS   1    244.8 May 2002 July 2002 Oct. 2002 Dec. 2002 Dec. 2005
2 Training on Pension        Services QCBS   1    396.0 July 2002 Sept. 2002 Jan. 2003 Apr. 2003 Oct. 2005
4 Data Collection SA&MIS     Services QCBS   1    239.5 Feb. 2002 Apr. 2002 July 2002 Oct. 2002   2005
Technical Assistance
3 International LRP          Services  IC    1    216.0 June 2001 July 2001 Aug. 2001 SePt. 2001 Jun. 2005
3 Technical Assistance Local LRP Services  IC    1    702.0 June 2001 July 2001 Aug. 2001 Sept. 2001  2005
Medical Rehabilitation Expert -
2 International              Services  IC    1    113.4 March 2002 Apr. 2002 May 2002 June 2002  2003
2 Medical Rehabilitation Expert -  Services  IC    1  25.2 Aug. 2002 Sept. 2002 oct. 2002 Nov. 2002   2003
2 Regulation Expert - International Services  IC    1  36.0 Apr. 2002 May 2002 June 2002 July 2002   2003
Social Security Administration
2 Advisor                    Services  IC    1      94.5 Sept. 2002 Oct. 2002 Nov. 2002 Dec. 2002   2004
2 Regulation Expert - Local  Services  IC    1      10.0 Sept. 2002 Oct. 2002 Nov. 2002 Dec. 2002   2004
Fin.superv., account., human
2 res., other - Local        Services  IC    1      14.0 June 2002 July 2002 Sept. 2002 Oct. 2002   2005
2 Archiving expert - International Services  IC    1    108.0 Feb. 2003 March 200: Apr. 2003 May2003 Dec. 2003
2 Archiving Expert - Local   Services  IC    1      60.0 Apr. 2003 May 2003 June 2003 July 2003 Dec. 2003
2 HotlinelWebsite Expert -   Services  IC    1    108.0 Jan. 2003 Feb. 2003 March 200 Apr. 2003 Dec. 2003
2 HotlineNWebsite Expert-Local   Services  IC    1  70.0 Jan. 2003 Feb. 2003  arch 200 April 2003 Dec. 2003
2 Licensin Expert - International Services  IC    1  37.8 March 200  Apr. 2003 May 2003 June 2003 Oct. 2003
2 IT Expert - International  Services  IC    1      36.0 May 2003 June 2003 July 2003 Sept. 200 May 2004
2 IT Expert - Local          Services  IC    1      10.0 May 2003 June 2003 JUly2003 Sept. 200 Sept. 200
Fin.superv., account., human
2 res., other - International  Services  IC    1    54.0 Aug. 2003 Sept. 200  Oct. 2003 Dec. 2003 Jan. 2005
2 Payments expert - International Services  IC    1  72.0 Jan. 2004 Feb. 2004  arch 2004 Apr. 2004 Dec. 2004
2 Payment expert - Local     Services  IC    1      24.0 Feb. 2004 March 200  Apr. 2004 May 2004 Dec. 2004
- 82 -



TRAINING    ___                                                       1
Procurement and Financial   _  .                                                                      _
1 Management Training           Training   CQ     1      22.0 Aug. 2002 Sept. 2002 Oct. 2002 Dec. 2002 Oct. 2003
Analytical& Policy Studies     Services  CQ  fariou    70.4 Aug. 2002 Sept. 2002 Oct. 2002 Dec. 2002 Jan. 2005
_Training: judet staff on
2 collection/payment procedures  Training   CQ   ariou   380.9 Jan. 2003  Feb. 2003 Apr. 2003 June 2003 June 2005
1 T-                            Training   CQ  (arioui   52.5            continuing process (2001-2005)
2 Training (MedialExpetise)        Training   CQ  tariou:  257.0          continuing process (2002-2005)   ..
NON-BANK FINANCED
PROCUREMENT
WORKS                        _         _                                 ______
3 Civil works Occupational Health  Works   NBF  ariou  1,500.0   Sep-01    Nov-01               Dec-01     2002
2 Office rehabilitation PENSION   Works   NBF  ariou  1,950.0    2002                            2002      2005
2 Office Acquisition PENSION AD  Works   NBF  ariou  4,299.9   2002                              2002      2005
2 Office rehabilitation PENSION   Works   NBF    1      193.9   2003                             2003      2005
_GOODS                      __                      
4 Training Materials (EU)        Goods   NBF    1        60.0   2002                             2002      2005
Media (VRai,Itrnet
4(tEU) MEDIA                Goods   NBF    1       875.2   2002                             2002      2005
4 Printed Materials (EU) MEDIA    Goods   NBF    1      756.0   2002                 .           2002      2005
SERVICES._
Social Assistance Specialist
4 (International) (EU)          Services  NBF    1      612.0  Jun-01                           Sep-01     2005
_Social Assistance! Specialist  _.                 
4(                 ___ _    Services  NBF    1           68.0  Jun-01        _                  Sep01      2005
Research and Strategy
4 Consultant, Intemational (EU)   Services  NBF    1    126.0  Jun-01          _                Sep-01     2001
_ Resear-ch adSrtg
4 Consultant, Local (EU)        Services  NBF    1       30.0  Jun-01                           Sep-01     2004
1 Director                      Services  NBF    1       12.2  Jun-01                           Jul-01     2005
1 Deputy Director               Services  NBF    1       11.0  Jun-01                           Jul-01     2005
1 Procurement Officer for Goods  Services  NBF    1       8.2  Jun-01                           Jul-01     2005
Procurement Officer for
1 Services & Consultants        Services  NBF    1        8.2  Jun-01    . . . ____   Jul-01               2005
I IT Procurement Officer        Services  NBF    1        8.2  Jun-01 _  __                    Jul-01     2005
1 Chief Accountant              Services  NBF    1        8.2  Jun-01                        _  Jul-01     2005
1_Accountant                    Services  NBF    1        6.1   Jun-01   ___ =__    Jul-01                 2005
1  udget Officer - local budgets   Services  NBF    1     6.1  Jun-01                           Jul-01     2005
1 Secretary                     Services  NBF    1        4.1   Jun-01                          Jul-01     2005
- 83 -



1 Policy Advisor (UK) POV M&E  Services  NBF    1        270.0  Jun-01                            Sep-01     2005
Technical Assistance
2 International Occupational    Services  IC       1     500.0   2002                              2002      2005
Techical Assistance Local
2 Occupational Health (CIDA)    Services  IC       1      80.0   2003                              2003      2005
4 M & E studies (EU)            Services  NBF    1       240.0   2002                              2002      2005
4 Pilot Social Assistance Initiative Services  NBF    1  500.0   2003      .                       2003      2005
__TRAINING                               __                     ___    ___
Training for MMSS Staff on
4 Strategy (EU)                  Training  NBF    1       12.8  Jun-01                            Jul-01     2001
I Training Abroad (UK) POV      Training  NBF    1        30.0  Jun-01                            Jul-01     2001
1 System Training (UK) POV      Training   NBF  ariou    170.0                continuing process (2001-2005)
4 Training Specialist International Training  NBF    1   144.0   2002                              2002      2004
4 Training Specialist Local (EU    Training  NBF    1     42.0   2002                              2002      2005
4 Management Training (EU)       Training  NBF    1      495.2   2002                              2002      2005
MMSS Staff Training-At training
4 centers (EU)                   Training  NBF    1      440.9   2002                              2002      2005
MMSS Staff Training - on the
4 job (EU)                       Training  NBF    1      225.9   2002                              2002      2005
4 Training for Local Council Staff  Training  NBF    1   300.0   2002    _                         2002      2005
International Internships and
4 Study Tour (EU)                Training  NBF    1      304.0   2002                              2002      2005
4 Newsletter (EU) MMSS           Training  NBF    1       21.5   2002                              2002      2005
Workshops for MMSS and MAP
4 staff (EU)                     Traini_ N_BF    1       226.8   2002                              2002      2005
=OPERATING EXPENDITURE=
1 Staff- (7) (GOR) POV          Salaries  NBF  fariou     71.4             continuing process (2001-2005)
1 Office O&M (GOR) POV          Dper Cos  NBF  ariou      17.0             continuing process (2001-2005)
1 Staff - (11) (GOR) MMSS       Salaries  NBF  ariou    112.2              continuing process (2001-2005)
1 Office O&M (GOR) MMSS         Dper Cos  NBF  ariou      25.5             continuing process (2001-2005)
1peratin costs (GOR) PMU    Dper Cos  NBF  ariou     22.0             continuing process (2001-2005)
4 Operations and Maintenance   Dper Cos  NBF  ariou  1,389.1               continuing process (2001-2005)
4 Civil Works Maintenance (GOR) per Cos  NBF  ariou   362.9                continuing process (2001-2005)
4 New MMSS Staff (GOR)           Salaries  NBF  ariou  2,160.0             continuing process (2001-2005)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 84 -



Table B1: Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1. Procurement Review
%/o of Loan
GoodslWorks         ICB           IS/NS           NCB                                       Amount
subject to
l___________ l____________ l____________ _____________ ____________ ____________ prior review
IS: Less than   Furniture
Procurement Above $100,000 $100,000;        contracts less
Thresholds                  NS Less than  than
$50,000        US$200,000
$15.63 million  IS: $985,000    $810,000
Aggregates                  NS: $155,000
All contracts   IS: first contract First contract
NS: first
Prior Review                contract
Consultants       QCBS         Individual         LCS        CQ/Training    OthervLRP
Aggregates  $13.67 million   $1.22 million    $89,250      $0.78 million   $25.43 million    54%
All Micro-credit All contracts    First contract             First 3
contracts;     above $50,000                  Training plan,  contracts for
all consultant                                and budget for each type of
contracts                                     fellowships,   LRP
Prior Review                                                study tours and regardless of
local training;  Value; and
All CQ        All LRP
consultant    contracts
contracts     above $50,000
One in ten contracts for individual consultant services. Minimal for goods as
Ex-post Review                practically all goods contracts will be subject to prior review. In-depth review of
procurement activities during supervision missions.
Cofinancing:
UK Department for international Development (DFID), European Union (EU Phare) and CIDA on parallel
financing arrangements
- 85 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
13. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines provided in the Bank
"Disbursement Handbook". The procurement and disbursement arrangements are based on the Bank's
appraisal of the procurement and financial management capability of the implementing ministry and its
institutions, as well as the experience and lessons learned from ongoing Bank operations in the HD sector,
especially the ESPP. Loan funds are expected to be fully disbursed within eighteen (18) quarters after the
expected effectiveness date of August 31, 2001. The Project Completion Date is December 31, 2005 with
a Credit Closing Date of June 30, 2006. The disbursement categories and amounts and percentages to be
financed under each category are presented in Table C, as follows:
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$            Financing Percentage
thousand
I. Goods                                                100% of foreign expenditures;
(a) for Part B(2) of the Project       1,200,000      100% of local expenditures
(b) for other Parts of the Project    12,000,000         (ex-factory cost); and
84% of local expenditures for other
I_______________________________                            items  procured   locally
2. Consultants' Services and             3,080,000                100%
Training
3. Labor Redeployment Services          20,000,000                100%
4. Micro-credit                         12,000,000                100%
5. Unallocated                           1,720,000
Front-end fee                 0
Total_                       ~~~~~~~50,000,000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts for
goods, services, training, LRP services and micro-credit in accordance with the table below. Supporting
documents for expenditures financed on basis of SOEs will be retained by PCU for at least one year after
disbursements and made available for review by Bank representatives and external auditors.
The Bank Loan is expected to be fully disbursed over a four and one-half year period. All
applications to withdraw from the loan will be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the bank's
disbursement handbook. All applications to withdraw will be fully documented, except those for training
and contracts not subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be made against
certified statements of expenditures SOEs. Project accounts will be subject to an independent audit for
each fiscal year, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.
- 86 -



SOE Thresholds:
*   Goods:                         contracts costing less than USS 100,000 equivalent
*   Consulting services - firms:   all contracts
*   Consulting services - individuals:  contracts costing less then US$ 50,000 equivalent
*   Training:                      all contracts
*   LRP services:                  contracts costing less then USS 50,000 equivalent
*   Micro-credit:                  all contracts
Administration of Disbursement:
The MMSS, through the PCU, will co-ordinate and monitor the overall implementation of different
components of the Project. The PCU will be responsible for the maintenance of a centrally managed
financial management system, including records and accounts, for the preparation of financial statements in
a fonnat acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of all
withdrawal applications in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
Special account:
In order to facilitate Loan disbursement, the Government of Romania will establish a Special
Account in the National Bank of Romania or a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation for the Special Account
would be US$ 4,000,000. However, during the initial stage of the project, an amount limited to US$
1,000,000 will be deposited in the Special Account. When the aggregated amount of disbursement reaches
US$ 4,000,000, the amount deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full authorized
allocation of US$ 4,000,000. The minimum amount of each application should be 20 percent of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly,
or whenever one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures. The disbursement under the loan will be made in
accordance with traditional disbursement procedures as explained in Disbursement Handbook.
Financial Management
Project Accounting
The existing PCU, implementing the Employment and Social Protection Project (ESPP - now in its
final years of implementation) is established within the Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MMSS)
and will also handle the new SSD Project, as it is acting for the same Ministry. MMSS intends to convert
the PCU to a Project Management Unit (PMU) in accordance with Govemment policy in this regard.
The PCU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system. All
procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures for the Project will be centralized at the
PCU and will be in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines. The PCU will be fully in charge of
recording all project payments, procurement, contracting, disbursement, reporting, accounting, planning,
budgeting and auditing aspects relating to the Project. No Project funds (including Loan amounts) can be
transferred directly to the beneficiaries or any other parties, outside the Project's documented framework.
- 87 -



The existing financial management system (FMS), including accounting, reporting, planning,
budgeting, auditing and proper internal control systems, satisfactory to the WB will be maintained and
strengthened by the Borrower throughout project implementation.
The unit was subject to a detailed review and assessment conducted by a Bank FMS and the LACI
FM Annex 4-B certification was issued, prior to Board presentation. The Government will continue to
maintain a project financial management system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with OP/BP 10.02 and LACI requirements.
The Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for further
strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The development of the FMS
will be monitored by the Bank during the first supervision missions and throughout project implementation.
The PCU will include the director, finance manager (chief accountant), 2 accountants, 3
procurement specialists, and an assistant. The PCU will maintain all documentation related to project
expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The PCU will be
responsible for keeping the full accounting records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the
accounting software, handling the Special Account and ordering payments from the Government
contributions, prepare all bidding documents, reporting both to the Bank and the Government, planning,
budgeting, disbursement and auditing aspects for the Project.
The accountants will handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are
kept up to date within the accounting software and will be in charge of the petty cash arrangements. The
finance manager will supervise the accountants and will be responsible for the planning, budgeting and
reporting aspects, reporting to the PCU director. The PCU director will also establish permanent contacts
with the beneficiaries, the Bank, economic departments of the relevant entities, auditors and the MFP.
The PCU staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and
evaluate them in accordance with the Bank regulations; submit the evaluations to the Bank for no objection;
sign contracts in an acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the contractors; certify (jointly
with the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works and services provided in
accordance with the terms of reference and the relevant technical specifications. The payment documents
will be prepared by the PCU only after the fulfillment of the above steps. No project funds may be passed
over directly to beneficiaries or any other parties. The PCU is the only entity authorized to make and to
order (in respect of Government contributions) payments to suppliers.
The existing accounting software system, developed by PA Management (a Canadian firm through
its Romanian subsidiary) for ESPP will also be used for the new SSD Project accounting.
The existing accounting software system meets the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The existing software system produces for the a trial balance, a number of procurement
reports (by category), a balance sheet, a receipt and payment statement, Loan and Special Account
Statements, suppliers ledger, journal, etc.
The other reports required by the Bank, such as a list of Statements of Expenditure, Statement of
Sources and Uses of Funds, detailed reports for each project components and sub-components, contract
management reports, cashflow forecasts, etc are prepared manually by the PCU, based on the records from
the accounting system.
- 88 -



For the ESPP, the PCU executed directly the payments from the SA. In respect of the Romanian
Government contributions, the PCU requested the economic department of the MMSS (for the State
Budget), the economic department of the CNPAS (for the Pension Budget) and the economic department of
the National Agency for Labor Force Occupation (for the Unemployment Budget) to execute the payments
pertaining to their share of the relevant Romanian Government contributions.
The PCU has kept all accounting documents centralized and has received monthly reports from the
above entities on the actual execution of these payments in respect of the Romanian Government
contributions, detailing the dates and amounts paid, and the relevant vouchers and invoices to which they
related. The PCU reconciled these reports with the initial requests of payments submitted to the above
economic departments.
During the life of ESPP, there were a number of occasions when these reports were not complete
and / or submitted late to the PCU and the PCU has followed up on these issues. Once these issues were
resolved, the PCU would then make a journal entry and record that the payments requested were actually
made, and that the correct date, amount and supplier was inputted, reconciled with the original voucher and
invoice.
The PCU prepared the Project financial statements manually, including all the Romanian
Government contributions to the Project.
For the new SSD, the existing chart of accounts will require some modifications to cater for the
new project specifics. The accounting records for the SSD will be kept distinctly and separate from the
ones for ESPP. A separate set of project financial statements, will be prepared for the SSD Project,
including detailed accounts for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts will also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account and replenishments
made by the Bank; and statements of sources and application of funds.
The PCU will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by
source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives
for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The PCU will submit the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
to the Bank from December 31, 2002 and quarterly thereafter.
Special and Project Accounts and Flow of Funds
Loan funds will be channeled through a Special Account to be opened at a commercial bank.
acceptable to the WB. It was agreed that this commercial bank may be the same as the one currently used
for the ESPP (Romanian Development Bank - RDB - Societe Generale) for cost efficiency and easiness in
operation. The PCU will be fully in charge of operating the Special Account.
Government contributions will be received through the budgetary systems of the relevant entities
(State Budget, Unemployment Budget and Pension Budget, respectively). The PCU will order the economic
department of the MMSS (for the State Budget), the economic department of the CNPAS (for the Pension
Budget) and the economic department of the National Agency for Labor Force Occupation (for the
Unemployment Budget) to execute the payments pertaining to their share of the relevant Romanian
Government contributions. These Government contributions will be paid directly by and from the accounts
of these entities. These entities will then submit to the PMU monthly reports detailing all payments made
from the Romanian contribution (including amounts, dates and reconciliation with the original vouchers
and invoices).
- 89 -



In order to avoid any delays in the submission of these reports, as it was sometimes the case on the
ESPP, as mentioned above, it is recommended that the PCU is to sign a protocol with the economic
departments mentioned above, or that a MMSS Ministerial Order is issued to strengthen the reporting
procedures and enhance the overall system.
Internal Controls
The PCU will continue to adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices, to ensure that
the Project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The PCU will
report to the Project Coordinator and to relevant Ministers and will inform in a timely manner about
project implementation and progress.
All PCU staff must be familiar with the Bank regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement,
financial management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. The Financial Management Manual for the
project will be further developed by PCU staff, documenting various types of financial transactions,
approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents within the PCU and between the PCU and other
entities, to the beneficiaries, to the economic-accounting departments of the MMSS and the ones of the
relevant entities and MFP, PCU's updated staff responsibilities and measures to ensure a complete
segregation of duties, as well as other internal control procedures.
In addition to the above manual, the PCU will have to follow the procedures set up in the POM.
The PCU staff are requested to document the internal norms that will be used throughout the life of the
Project. These norms will document the day-to-day internal procedures for each type of activity (such as
correspondence handling, contracting and payment procedures, operation of all bank accounts, petty cash
procedures, authorization mechanism, reporting, filling, etc.)
During the recent past some concerns have been raised conceming fraud, waste and abuse of donor
funds in the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement.
The risk that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is
judged as acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the Project through
the existence of the PCU, segregation of duties within the PCU, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to
certify the works done before payments are made by the PCU and an independent yearly audit of project
funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the Bank.
Project Management Reports
The PCU will prepare all the quarterly project management reports, as requested by the Bank.
Sample of the format of these reports are available in the World Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook
(September 1998) and the Project Financial Management Manual (February 1999 - Exposure draft).
The reports will be showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary
of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester.
Auditing
Annual financial statements of the Project will be prepared in accordance with Romanian
Budgetary Accounting Standards. The project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such
- 90 -



as the World Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and the World Bank
Project Financial Management Manual.
The PCU will have the project accounts audited (including special accounts and all statements of
expenditures) in accordance with ISA, by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Recruitment of such a firm on a yearly renewable contract (subject to
satisfactory performance) and all the related steps are mentioned in the Financial Management Action Plan.
The audit costs are to be financed from the Loan. This audit may be contracted together with the audit of
the ESPP. Audit reports and management letters will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end of the fiscal year.
The borrower has submitted to the Bank the 1998 audit report for ESPP with a one year delay.
The 1999 audit report for ESPP is still overdue. Several discussions were held and the Borrower has
agreed to remedy the situation during 2001. The auditors (BDO) were appointed in April 2001 and the
borrower has agreed that the outstanding audit reports for 1999 as well as the current one for 2000 will be
submitted to the Bank by June 30, 2001. It is perceived that by appointing the auditors by effectiveness and
close supervision, this project will be in compliance with audit covenants.
The borrower stated that the reasons for the above delays were the extensive controls carried out
by the Romanian Court of Accounts (Romanian SAI) during the periods mentioned. These controls have
lasted an average of 8 months for every fiscal year and have blocked all relevant documentation (contracts,
accounting documents, etc), thus barring the access of the auditors to the documentation. Currently, the
auditors appointed for 1999 and 2000 have started their work and will finalize their audit reports in due
course, so that these will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 2001.
In order to avoid the above situations, it is recommended that a loan covenant is included that the
PCU will make available to the extemal auditors, without any restrictions and on a timely basis, all
relevant documents needed for the audit work.
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                                                    Responsibility      Due date
Strengthening of the financial management system
Update the existing accounting software system to cater for the new   PCU/ Bank  06/30/2001
SSD Project (chart of accounts, reports' formats, procedures, etc)
Update the project accounting and financial management manual  PCU/ Bank      06/30/2001
documenting the project's accounting and internal control policies
Sign the protocol (or obtain a Ministerial Order) in respect of the  PCU      09/30/2001
payment reports to be submitted monthly by the economic-account.
departments of MOLSS, CNSAS and ANOFM to the PCU
Staffing arrangements
Appoint an additional budget officer (accountant)          PCU/ Bank          09/30/2001
Audit arrangements
Present shortlist of auditors and TORs for no-objection to the WB    PCU      Completed
Agree on audit TORs                                        PCU/ Bank          Completed
Send RFP for no-objection to the Bank                      PCU                Completed
Confirm no-objection to RFP                                Bank               Completed
Send RFP to shortlisted auditors                           PCU                06/30/2001
- 91 -



Submit to the Bank the ESPP 1999 and 2000 audit reports    PCU                06/30/2001
Submission and opening of the offers                       PCU                07/30/2001
Final evaluation and recommendation for selection          PCU/ Bank          08/31/2001
Conclude contract with selected auditors                   PCU                09/30/2001
Certification of financial management arrangements
Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit project prior to project Bank FMS  Completed
board presentation to confirm adequacy of project's financial
management arrangements and check on the action plan
Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit project after project   Bank FMS  10/1/
effectiveness to follow up on the FM action plan                              2001
Project Management Reporting
Agree upon the final formats of the quarterly Project Management   PCU/ Bank  06/30/2001
Reports (PMRs)
Produce first set of PMRs as at December 31, 2001 and quarterly    PCU        12/31/2001
thereafter (for reporting and management information purposes), no
later than 45 days after each quarter's end
- 92 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
P vojpc Miedule                                   Planned,                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            06/30/2000                   06/28/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/20/2001                  02/15/2001
Negotiations                                   03/27/2001                   05/07/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/31/2001             _    __ ___
Prepared by:
MMSS with assistance from the Bank, CIDA, EU and UK DFID.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF026138 and TF025357.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
John Innes                       Program Tearn Leader
Richard Florescu                 Labor & Social Insurance (Bucharest Anchor)
Helen Shahriari                  Social and Institutional Analysis, M&E
Darrell Prokopetz                 Labor Market Specialist
Esperanza Lasagabaster           Pension Specialist
Carlos Ferreira                  Information Specialist
Dena Ringold                     Social Assistance
Nadejda Mochinova                Program Assistant
Bogdan Constantinescu            FMS
Leonardo Concepcion              PAS
Irina Kichigina                  Lawyer
Evelyn Villatoro                 PAS (Procurement Assessment)
Nicholay Chistyakov              Disbursement Officer
- 93 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. PIP, March 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Local Social Services Delivery Study, forthcoming
2. Social Assistance & Prevention of Child Abandonment, (Policy Note), September 2000
3. Pension Reform Policy Note, November 2000
4. ESPP Supervision Reports, (various dates)
5. Balancing Protection and Opportunities: A Strategy for Social Protection in Transition Economies,
(ECA Social Protection Strategy Paper), 2000
6. Romania: Social Protection and the Poor", forthcoming, The World Bank, Bucharest, Romania
7. Romania: Pension Reform Note, manuscript, September 1998
8. Romania: Country Economic Memorandum, forthcoming (Chapter on Pension Reform)
C. Other
Reports:
I. Institutional Assessment of the MMSS, IMAS, February 2001
2. RICOP Project Documents, EU 2000
3. Romania: Municipal Creditworthiness and Local Government Decentralization, Urban Institute,
1997
4. Social Assessment: Unemployment in Romania, S.Holt, December 2000.
5. The Governing Programme: 2001-2004, Government of Romania, 2000
6. Evaluation of the Income Support Benefits: Executive Summary, MMSS, 1997.
7. Poverty, Inequality and Social Protection, Tesliuc, C. and Pop L., 2000
8. Proposal for Organization of the Pension Control Commission and its Procedures, Primamerica,
2000
Legislation:
1. Law on Local Public Finance, September 14, 1998 version
2. Law on Minimum Guaranteed Income, 2000 draft
3. Framework Law on Social Assistance, 2000 draft
4. Law on Private Pension Funds, 2000 draft
5. Law on Public Pension System and Other Social Security Benefits; 2000.
6. Decision on Micro-credit Scheme (Operations & Procedures), Govermment of Romania, 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 94 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P056891        2001 RURAL FINANCE                                        80a00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      80.00       0.0 0   000
P008797        2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                                 40.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      40.00        6.17       0.00
P043882        2000 AGR SUPPORT SERVICES                                 11.00       0.00                   000        0.00       10.93       0.66       0.00
P056337        2000 MINE CLOSURE                                         44.50       0.00                   0.00       0.00      43.34       14.24       0.00
P065041        2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                        17.10       0.00                   0.00       0.00       16.81      -0 22       0.00
P039251        1999 PIBL                                                 25.00       0.00                   0.00       1.10       15.50       4.67       0.00
POS8284        1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                     5,00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       4.39        3.69       0.00
P044176        1999 BIODIVERSITY                                          0.00       0.00                   5.50       0.00       4 31        1.39       0.00
P049200        1999 SOC DEV FUND                                         10.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       3.83        3.83       5.45
P044614        1998 SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                               70.00       0.00                   0.00       0 00      56.11       34.11      -9.42
POS5495        1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                                  5.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        3 64       2.94       0.00
P034213        1998 GEN'L CADASTRE                                       25.50       0.00                   0.00       0.00      23.43        8.10       0.00
P008788        1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                                    30,00       0.00                   0.00       7.00      17.23      22.06       5.29
P008793        1997 HIGHER EDUCATION                                     50.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      28.15      28.15       13.95
P039250        1997 SECOND ROADS                                        150.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      28.50      -29.00       0.00
P008778        1997 BUCHAREST WATER SuPP                                 25.00       0,00                   0.00       000        9.23        9.17       0.00
P036013        1996 RAILWAY                                             120.00       0.00                   0.00       0 00      40.60       39.94       0.00
P008794        1996 POWER SECTOR REHAB.                                 110.00       0.00                   0.00      3350       59.38       92.88      25.63
P008776        1995 (ESPP) EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTECTION                     55,40       0.00                   0.00       0.00      34.09       33.89       0.00
P008777        1994 PETROL SECT REH                                     175.60       0.00                   0.00       0.00      78.86       78.86     -67.26
P008784        1994 EDUCATION REFORM                                     50.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      19.69       19.69      2.33
Total:     1099.10        0.00                 5.50        41.60      61803      375.21     -24.03
- 95 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Ambro                          8.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.59    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               Banc Post                      0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                  1.90    0.00    0.00     1.90    1.90    0.00     0.00    1.90
1996               Danube Fund                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00       0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                  4.29    3.20    0.00      0.00    4.29    2.55     0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                   8.34    0.00    0.00      6.00    8.34    0.00     0.00    6.00
1998               FCR Fund                       0.00   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                        0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20       0.00    0.00
1998               Krupp Compa                    6.66    0.00    0.00    2.86    5.50    0.00       0.00    2.36
1997/00            Mobil Rom                      15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Rambox                          1.48    2.00    0.00     0.00    1.48    2.00     0.00    0.00
1994/98            Romlease                       0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan                3.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.02       0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        49.05    17.72   10.00    30.76    30.10   17.07    10.00   10.26
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Romlease Restr.                   4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Banca Romaneasca                  3.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         7.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
- 96 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: Social Sector Development Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central   middle       -- 
Romania        Asia  income        Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year fmi/lfons)                          22.5       475      2.094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aflts method, US$)                      1,520      2,150     1,200
GNP fAtlas mothod, USS billions)                         34.1      1.022     2513
Average annuat growth. 1993-99
Population f%)                                           -0.2        0.1        111     G
Labor force %)                                            0o5        0.6        1.2     GNP        p_             ;        Gross
Most recent estimitt (latest yeatr available, 1993.99)                                  capita           .  -          enrollment
Povertv (% of Dooulation below national povertv fine)     22           -
Urban population (% of total populetion)                  56         67         43
Life expectanrv at birth (vers)                            69         69        69
Infant mortalitv (Par t.000 ,v# births)                   21         22         33
Chitd matnulrition (% ofchildren undeir 51                             8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source f1 of oopulation)          62          -        86
Illiteracy ( ofpoulatiOn a    tS                            2         3         16         -Romania
Gross primary enrollment ( of'school-asg porpulation)     104        100       114
Male                                                   104        101        114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 103         99        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS bit/ions)                                       41.5       41,5      34.0
Gross domestic investmentGDP                   39.6      26.8       21.4       19.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                        20.9       23.7      30.1
Gross domestic savinasiGOP                        ,      29.5       13.3       15.7
Gross national savins/GPGDP                              29.7       14.0       16.3
Current account balance/GOP                       -       6.1       -7.2       -3.8     Domestic           A
Interest payments/GOP                             -       0.2        1.1        1 4     SavingsInvestment
Total debt/GOP                                    .       2.6       24.3      27:1 
Total debt servicelextiois                      1.4      16.9       23.6      28,7
Present vatue of debVGDP                                            23.2      27.1
Present value of debt/exports                                       98.5      92.0
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999.03
(avoraqe annual growth)
GOP                                    1.5     -1.5      -4.9       -3.2          -           -Romania
GNP per capita                         1.2     -1.4      -5.1       -2 8                          Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooos s arn services           -      4.6       5.8        8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (i%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              10
Agriculture                                              15 7       15.0       15.51
Industrv                                                 56 4       36.6      31.0       s
Manufacturing                          -                          27.3       22.2      5
Services                                                 27 9       48.3      53.5           j      \
Private consumption                                      58 9       72.2      69.6    -10
General qovernment consumPbion                           11 6       14.5       14.7              -      GDI    --DP
Imports of qoods and services                            18 2       31.8      34.3
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (l%
(avera,qe annual growth)
Aqriculture                                               0.6       -8.8       4.7    20
Industry                                                 -1 9       -5.6      -4.0
Manufacturinq                                                      -6.4      -3.1    10
Services                                                 -2 4       -0. 1      -8.4
Private consumption                                      -0 1       -6.5      -6.8                               97    9 B
General qovernment consumption                            2 3       12.0       0.4
Gross domestic investment                                -5 7       -8.6       -3.7   -10 l
Imports of goods and services                             4 4       14.1      -4.8               -Exports       -    Iporos
Gross national product                          1 7      -1 7       -5.3       -3.0
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv 6in bold) compared with its income-oroup averaae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 97 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflatton (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         300
Consumer prices                                ..      1.1       59.1      45.8    200
Implicit GDP deflator                         3.2      -0.9      55.0      46.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                 ..    51.0       30.1      33.3             94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                         ..    31.1        -5.0      -3.5   -IGOP deflator    0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    13.5        -5.0      -3.4
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  10,487      8,302     8,505     12,00s
Textiles                                      ..       ..    1,583      1,310
Metals                                        ..       ..       508       502      9,0.0
Manufactures                                  ..   7.056      5,238     5,654
Total imports (cif)                             ..   8,437     11,838    10,392      6000       1
Food                                          ..    124         523       417      3,000ii
Fuel and energy                               ..   4,728      1,687     1,251
Capital qoods                                 ..   2,148      3,206     2,689        o
93  94  99  96 97 6      8   99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      93         95       97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      99         98      101                  U Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      93         97       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
m979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US5 millions)
Exports of goods and services              10,133   11,321      9,519     9,862       Si,
Imports of qoods and services              11,428    8,887    12,798    t1,358        IV           *    -i0          : 
Resource balance                            -1,295    2,434    -3,279    -1,496    -2
Net income                                   -358       80       -442     -375
Net current transfers                          ..    0    753   568  14                      1111
Current account balance                    -1,653    2,514     -2,968    -1,303    -6
Financinq items (net)                       1,791   -1,160      2,125     1,471
Chanqes in net reserves                      -138   -1,354       843      -168    LEI
Memo:
Reserves including qold (US$ millions)         ..       ..    3,789       3,657
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                ..    19.3   8,875.8  15,332.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,583    1,087     10,074     9,213
IBRD                                        590        0      1,469     1,703                  G:683
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                                 A: 1,703
Total debt service                            142    1,941      2,310     2,876
IBRD                                         54      756       152       171                ,,
IDA                                                                                       ! 0_                   C: 0459
Composition of net resource flows                                                            i
Official grants                               0        0       131         0               .D: 1,021
Official creditors                          151   -1,188      -123       -65
Private creditors                         1,680     -432       344      -351          F: 4,968                   379
Foreiqn direct investment                     0        0      2,040      949                                   E3
Portfolio equity                              0        0       130      -706
Word Bank program
Commitments                                 340        0        130      340      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               142        0       122       323      B tDA    0-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                          7      727         70       85      C -IMF                      G - Short-tem
Net flows                                   135    -727         51       238
Interest payments                            47       29        82        87
Net transfers                                88     -756       -30       152
Development Economics                                                                                                9/5/2000
- 98 -



Additional
Annex II
ROMANIA: SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
LRIP - PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA
1.    General Criteria
Availability of LRP services to Communities: LRP funds would be to finance active
labor programs in all communities unless a specific activity is exempted and are intended to
support the overall economic reform program, including privatization of state-owned enterprise
(SE). In order to determine the allocation of funds at the Judet level, a set of tools and techniques
for comprehensive analysis have been designed and are included in the Program Operational
Manual as recommendations for the Agency personnel. The algorithm for determining the initial
program allocation to each region will be based on the following: number of SE employees
displaced or expected to be displaced, unemployment levels and development index.
Availability of LRP services to individuals: LRP services will be provided to individual
citizens through local service providers selected by public advertisements. Clients include (a)
workers to be displaced, or already displaced from SE undergoing privatization, restructuring
and/or liquidation; and (b) all other registered unemployed or those having difficulty entering the
labor market due to economic restructuring (women, persons with disabilities, long tern
unemployed).
Allocation of LRP services: The LRP is demand-driven, in general; there is no specific
allocation of resources by LRP progratn at the national level or at the judet levels. However, the
maximum amount of the combined labor redeployment fund and micro credit financing fund that
can be used at the national level for Temporary Community Services/Public Works is 25 percent.
Selection and reimbursement to service providers: Public advertisement is required to
select service providers which propose programns, after public announcement of the availability of
funds, and those that meet miinimum evaluation criteria may be accepted for financing (detailed
contracting procedures for procurement of services are contained in the Project Operational
Manual). Reimbursement to service providers will be based on the contracted average cost per
client times the number of clients receiving services. Service providers are eligible for limited
mobilization payments to a maximum of 20 percent; but will thereafter bill for services provided
on a monthly or as needed basis. Contracts should be adjusted by inflation rates, if and when
necessary, according to Romanian legislation.
Duplication of Payments and Services: Individual clients cannot receive income support
payments (e.g., minimum wage during training or during temporary community employment)
from the LRP if they are receiving other types of state financed income support (e.g.
unemployment benefits, job loss severance payments). Individuals may not participate in both
training and temporary community employmnent programs financed under the LRP. Individuals
can not generally be allowed to participate more than once in program in a period of 24 months.
-99-



Evaluation of Services: The impact of services is to be evaluated by all service providers
as a condition of their contracts. Service providers must report on the status of clients at the end
of each program and/or when a client terminates a program, and before final invoices are paid
(e.g. did clients get jobs after services, did they start businesses, what is their wage and/or
income). Some service contracts (e.g. training, small business assistance, employment counseling)
will have built-in incentives to improve labor market impact (e.g., negotiated levels of job
placement and business start-up, with financial incentive to meet objectives, and disincentives if
objectives are not met). These incentives will be given on a percentage basis, no greater than an
average of 10 percent, and proportional to achieved placement rates as negotiated in the contract.
These formulae are stipulated in the Program Operational Manual.
Labor mobility: Mobility is to be encouraged by providing information, by the sharing of
information on services being provided in different regions, by re-location grants that can be
provided through employment service contracts and by allowing qualified individuals from one
region to participate in programs being provided in other regions.
Specific Criteria by Intervention
(i) Criteria for Employment Services
Eligible Services: Job/social counseling, provision of labor market information,
aptitude/interest assessment, job search/job club programs, labor exchange and placement service,
relocation services.
Eligible Service Providers: Non-government non-profit agencies (NGOs), private firms,
labor organizations that demonstrate minimum capabilities to be service providers (e.g., staff
qualifications, facilities, financial viability, placement capability). No-fees are to be charged to
clients and there is a negotiated job placement rate of at least 10 percent.
Eligible Costs: Staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, consumable
materials, client transportation for job interviews, non-durable goods, depreciation of capital
equipment - 20 percent per year (applied only to equipment used in the program), relocation
costs of up to US$ 500 per family, based on submission of receipts. The maximum duration of
programs is 9 months.
(ii) Criteria for Training/Retraining Services (Institutional)
Eligible Services: Vocational, general education and literacy, formal small business skills
training. Local organizations proposing training programs must show evidence of demand for
trained workers (e.g., endorsed by local tripartite employment councils, in accordance with
existing Romanian legislation) and agree to a negotiated job placement rate of an average of at
least 60 percent.
Eligible Service Providers: Private enterprises, NGO, and public training institutions (if
no similar programs are offered by private providers). Institutions must show minimum capability
- 100-



for provision of training services (e.g., staff qualifications, facilities, financial viability, placement
capability).
Eligible Costs: Maximum length of training per client - 9 months; training and
administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, consumable materials, client transportation,
non-durable goods, maximum depreciation of capital equipment - 20 percent per year (applicable
only to equipment used in the program), training wage up to gross minimum wage level - less any
parallel job loss compensation or unemployment benefits. Training institutions which are training
for the general labor market will receive 100 percent reimbursement.
(iii) Criteria for On the Job (OJT) Training
Eligible Services: OJT training programs and services offered by private employers,
through a contract with the local agency that agree to a negotiated job placement rate of an
average of at least 80 percent.
Eligible Service Providers: Private enterprises and employers that can demonstrate
minimum capability for provision of training services (e.g., staff qualifications, facilities, financial
viability, placement capability). Organizations proposing programs must provide evidence that
the program will not displaced normal employment (e.g. evidenced by concurrence of local union
and employer representatives).
Eligible Costs: Maximum length of training per client - 9 months; training and
administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, consumable materials, client transportation,
non-durable goods, maximum depreciation of capital equipment - 20 percent per year (applicable
only to equipment used in the program), training wage up to gross minimum wage level - less any
parallel job loss compensation or unemployment benefits. Enterprises which are training clients
for internal hiring (OJT) will only receive reimbursement for 50 percent of total costs (wage and
training costs).
(iv) Criteria for Temporary Community Employment Services/Public Works Projects
Eligible Services: Enviromnental cleanup, ecological projects related to infrastructure,
refurbishment of public infrastructure, provision of assistance and support to social agencies (e.g.,
schools, retirement homes, clinics), short-tenn training (e.g. not more than 1-2 weeks for 6 month
contracts). Organizations proposing programs must provide evidence that the program will not
displaced normal employment (e.g. evidenced by concurrence of local union and employer
representatives).
Eligible Service Providers: Local Government must concur and approve projects, but are
excluded from implementing service contracts. Projects must be implemented by non-government
or private contractors selected by public advertisement. Local Government implementation is
acceptable only if the advertisement process does not identify qualified non-government
contractors. Proposing organizations must provide evidence of administrative and financial
viability and agree to negotiated job placement rates of at least 10 percent at the end of the
- 101 -



program.
Eligible Costs: Supervisory personnel (not more than 15 percent of total contract),
worker wages (no more than gross minimum wage), transportation costs, related training costs,
utilities, consumable materials and non-durable goods (limited to 20 percent of total project
costs), maximum length of individual parficipation is 6 months.
(v) CriteriaforSmall Business Assistance
EUgible Services: Provision of services including, but not limited to: initial assessment of
the aptitude and skills of unemployed persons to start businesses, developing business plans,
advising on accounting, financial, legal, marketing and sales services issues, assistance in the
dialogue with local authorities, short-term entrepreneurial courses and training and other
consulting services to unemployed entrepreneurs who intend to start, or who started, businesses
during the past 12 months.
Eligible Service Providers: Private agencies, autonomous government organizations,
statutory occupational organization, foundations and other associations. Service providers which
have, or intend to develop, links with micro small business finance programs, are encouraged to
apply. Services providers must agree to negotiated business start-up rates of at least 5 percent of
clients initially contacted.
Eligible Costs: Personnel services, transportation costs, rent and utilities, consumable
materials and non-durable goods, rnaximum depreciation of capital equipment - 20 percent per
year (applicable only to equipment used in the program). Maximum length of initial contract, 12
months. Costs per client must be specified in all contracts, however unit costs may be identified
for different categories of services by each service provider (e.g. initial business planning, advice
on marketing, developing accounting procedures) based on the understanding that all clients do
not need full services and some may drop out after initial contacts. Reimbursement to service
providers will be based on the contracted average cost per client, for each categories services.
(vi) Criteria for Small Business Incubators
Eligible Services: Facilities/premises rental, small business consulting services for tenants,
shared support services (e.g. accounting, security) and equipment for common use by incubator
management and tenants (e.g. telephone, a service vehicle, office equipment, etc.
Eligible Service Providers: Private firms and non-government organization (over 2 years old).
Applicants will be judged on availability of facilities, qualifications of management staff, linkages
with existing small business organizations and financing institutions, financial and administrative
capabilities, experience with small business, and linkage with sources of micro-small business
finance. Services providers must agree to negotiate business survival rates of at least 80 percent
over 12 months.
- 102 -



Specific Service Provider Criteria: Bidders must:
a) Demonstrate the existence of an important local support:
*   documents certifying the existence of the bidder's right to use the space (leasing
contract, concession, service provider's ownership, etc.) for a space of minimum 1,500
square meters. The space proposed for the business incubator must be assessed by an
authorized technical expertise team in point of technical status of the building, degree
of wear and tear and need for works of renovation/repairs that shall not exceed 6
months duration.
*   legal authority/rights to use the space cover a period of minimum  10 years, during
which whether no rent is charged, or the rent is paid from local contribution.
*   additional financial and/or in kind contribution (e.g. expenses for staff, utilities,
equipment, labor force, contribution to potential cash flow deficiencies etc.)
b) Demonstrate the organizational capacity to implement the project
Eligible clients: Businesses set up by dislocated workers according to the legislation in
force regarding mass layoffs occurred at commercial companies, public utilities and state-owned
enterprises undergoing restructuring, privatization, liquidation based on approved plans (minimum
50 percent of the incubated finns). The companies which have been operational for maximum 2
years, are committed to hiring 50-80 percent of the staff from among the workers dislocated
through mass lay-offs.
Eligible costs: total staff and administrative costs (e.g. manager, secretarial/accounting,
security staff), rent and utilities, short-term inventory objects and consumables, refurbishment of
spaces, initial equipment for shared use by incubator management and tenants (e.g. telephone, a
service vehicle, office equipment, etc.) No expenses for land or building purchasing, for new
erecting constructions or extending existing constructions shall be allowed. The maximum cost for
incubator contracts is US$ 250,000. A mobilization payment of up to 25 percent is allowed as
long as a bank guarantee is provided.
- 103 -



Additional
Annex 12
ROMANIA: SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR MICRO-CREDIT FINANCE
Framework legislation outlining the primary principles and criteria for the micro-credit
sub component are contained in OG No. 40/2000--Ordinance On Licensing Credit Agencies to
Manage Funding for Micro-credit. Further administrative guidelines which must be consistent
with the framework legislation are contained in the Micro-credit Guidelines. The Micro-credit
Guidelines require Bank approval and cannot be altered without prior consent.
Eligible services: Granting micro-credits with an interest and/or management fees that ensure the
fund's long term financial sustainability, offering technical assistance that include but are not
limited to: training, business advice in management, marketing, accounting.
Eligible service providers: Accredited NGOs and other financial intermediaries which:
*  have the object of micro-credit fund management;
-  have qualified and specialized personnel with an age of service of at least 3 years in the
business services (management consulting, investment assistance) domain and/or with
experience in administrating micro-credits or providing business consulting services, and
that do not have a criminal record;
*  have operated for at least 3 years documented with at least two reports approved by the
respective tax office;
-  evidence a high-quality crediting activity with a credit recovery rate of at least 85 percent,
documented by previous results;
*  participate in creating the fund with an amount equal to at least 10 percent of the amount
requested by ANOFM; and
.  prove that they can provide high-quality support services to the applicants for
micro-credits.
In order to be selected and accredited, loan agencies will have to provide evidence of
substantial experience or necessary skills and resources for granting micro-credits in Romania
and/or in other European country with an economy in transition.
Other Criteria:
*  The maximum loan that can be made to any one recipient is Euro 10,000 (consistent with
Romanian legislation).
*  The maximum repayment period is 3 years.
*  Positive real rates of interest will be charged on all loans.
*  Operating costs will generally be covered by the interest and fees collected by the fund
administrator (restricted to a maximum level as stated in the Micro-Credit Guidelines).
- 104 -



Additional
Annex 13
ROMANIA: SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Institutional Analysis of the MMSS
The 2001 legal background of MMSS
During the last two years, March 1999 - January 2001, at least four Government decisions
(Hotariri ale Guvernului - HG) regarding the MMSS organizational chart and the list of its
legal responsibilities have been approved. All of them imply changes within the central offices
structures and the coordinated institutions.
The MMSS has by the Government Decision no. 4/2001 responsibilities in five legislative
and operational fields:
1. Strategy development for labor policy, social protection and social solidarity;
2. Regulation and evaluation responsibilities - which means that MMSS has the task of
proposing and monitoring rules, regulations and laws regarding the labor market, social
protection and social solidarity; it also has the role of collecting and evaluating
qualitative and quantitative data regarding its social protection;
3. Management and administration roles - for goods, property and budgets allocated
from various sources;
4. Representation role for the Romanian Government in internal and external
affairs - which essentially means that MMSS is the only legal partner for domestic or
foreign official institutions which deal with labor market, social protection and social,
solidarity; and
5. State authority in charge of institutions under its responsibility (eg. ANOFM,
CNPAS).
In order to satisfy that list of responsibilities and activities of MMSS the central office
organizational chart has 36 units and 7 levels.
There is a clear progress in describing the roles and responsibilities of MMSS. A part of
the confusion and lack of precision induced by HG 174, 188, and 442 has been eliminated by
this Government Decision no. 4/2001. For the first time MMSS legally receives the function of
controlling the labor and social protection activities both in the state owned sector and private
sector. (article 4). Also for the first time the M&E functions are mentioned as such amongst the
MMSS responsibilities.
- 105-



There are some important changes also in the organizational chart, when compared with
the former ones:
*  The President of ANOFM  and the President of CNPAS are not anymore
quasi-independent positions but they are included in the MMSS organizational chart
as state secretaries, and they remain presidents as long as they are state secretaries;
*  A new state secretary position is formed - being in charge with the relationship with
the Parliament, trade-unions and business organizations;
*  A Special Directorate for legislation harmonization with the EU has been established;
and
*  A new office for with relationship investors has been set up.
According to the HG 4/2001, there are a maximum number of 273 employees; a 30
percent decrease in number compared with the former organizational chart. The decision of
decreasing the number of staff employed in the MMSS follows the Government's public
administration reform program, which requires a general reduction of the central administration
with 30 percent in terms of number of staff.
That structure is seen by MMSS employees as more appropriated than the former one.
Still the old critical issues remain as they were reported by a number of employees in the
MMSS:
*  Low capacity of rapid reaction and response to various requests from the Parliament,
Government, intemational institutions and local correspondents;
*  Very segmented data bases and limited capacity of analysis of various social
processes due to the fact that the knowledge is largely distributed amongst those 36
component entities in the MMSS.
* Current an,d forner employees raise the problem of the lack of internal training which
is requested especially by younger employees.
MMSS Financing
There are five sources of income for financing the MMSS:
* the central state budget, which contributes to cover various deficits, for pension
funds, children allowances, and unemployment allowances;
*  various taxes paid by companies and other state institutions (eg. the tax for keeping
the work pernits with the local institutions (Camera de Munca);
* the National Solidarity Fund which is composed by a tax on luxury cars and
gambling, based on Government Emergency Ordinance no. 118/1999;
* the Social Security budget;
* the local administration budget.
- 106 -



The share of various sources of income cannot be identified easily. In order to calculate
the shares of various funds administrated by MMSS four sources need to be summed up:
*   amounts calculated by contributors - which is actually the total of respective lines
in their balance sheets; the balance sheets are collected by the MFP and Conmmercial
Register;
*   amounts calculated after fiscal controls - which includes the penalties; these
amounts are to be collected from various control and auditing reports; there is no
centralized data base with them;
*   total scheduled expenses- which may be found in some Parliamentary reports;
*   total expenses actually disbursed - which are reported by the National Council of
Statistics with a delay of 6-9 months.
The social insurance budget, after the first 11 months of the year 2000 registered a deficit
of ROL 5,197 billion (US$ 205 million). The "social insurance budget" is an old denomination
of all funds used by MMSS for pensions, social aid, unemployment benefits, etc.
The exponential rise of the budget deficit for social insurance is due, in the first place, to
the growth of pensions. As such, supplemental additions to people's pensions were not covered
in the budget, since these sums were larger than the amount the Governrnent saved by cutting
compensation payments to laid off workers in the economy who had been subsidized by the
State.
Budgetary expenditures on social insurance that were made during the first 11 months of
last year - only for the purposes of paying pensions, allocations, and aids, came to ROL 48,813
billion - nearly US$ 2.00 billion, according to the MFP. It is expected that deficit will continue
to rise, the social insurance budgets getting probably to about 8.1 percent of the GDP in 2001,
from 7.0 percent in 2000. (See the Table I below).
Table 1. Social Security Budgets
Revenues        Expenditures        Balance         Exchange rate        Balance
ROL per US$
Year     Billion of ROL    Billion of ROL    Billion of ROL                       Million of US$
1995        3,934.2           4,099.2           -165.0             1,975.0           -83.5
1996        5,889.7           6,090.0           -200.3             3,030.0           -66.1
1997        13,164.2          13,221.9           -57.7             7,038.0           -8.2
1998        23,382.9          26,537.8         -3,154.9            9,900.0          -318.6
1999        37,792.7          39,035.2          -1,242.5          15,839.0           -78.4
2000        44,542.3          49,739.5          -5,197.2          21,358.0           -243.3
Source: MFP
- 107 -



Due to the lack of written rules and regulations, there is an opportunity for local offices to
administrate differently the same rule, or law. As a consequence the inherent subjectivity is
having an important place in administrating the rules and regulations, which creates also staff
dissatisfaction. The staff dissatisfaction is higher with the younger employees which require
clear rules of working and intensive training.
CNPAS
As a component part of the effort for modernizing the MMSS activities, the Romanian
Parliament approved in 27 March 2000, the law no. 19/2000, regarding the national public
system of pensions and other social insurance benefits. The law 19/2000 became effective on
April 1, 2001.
The Law 19/2000 requires that CNPAS is managed by an Administrative Council of 19
persons, one of them being the President of the CNPAS. The President of CNPAS is
nominated by the Prime Minister for a 5 year term. The Administrative Council is composed
of: 6 persons nominated by the Government, 6 persons nominated by the Patronal
organizations, 3 persons nominated by Trade Unions, and 3 persons nominated by Pensioner's
Unions. These members are approved by the Prime Minster for a 4 year term.
CNPAS has the following list of responsibilities:
*  monitoring and supervising the Judets offices of the CNPAS (Case teritoriale);
*  collecting and distributing the social insurance contributions;
*  monitoring and controlling the legal persons being contributors to the pension
funds;
e  collecting, analyzing and delivering data to the Government, and social partners
(trade unions, Patronal organizations, pensioners federations) regarding the
administration of the social insurance budgets;
e  recruiting, training and monitoring the staff in the field of social insurance;
*  developing international partnerships;
*  keeping and maintaining the database on all recipients of pensions and other social
insurance benefits; and
*  deploying other activities required by the law.
The CNPAS is organized as a public institution, with a non-executive Board of Directors
and its own statute. According to the law 19/2000 the Statute and organizational chart of
CNPAS is to be proposed by the Administrative Council and approved by the Government.
The CNPAS has three important sources of financing:
*  Social insurance contribution paid by employer, between 25 percent and 35 percent
per employee, depending on the labor category, and 15 percent for part-timers
employed by natural persons;
*  Employees contribution for additional pension which used to be 3 percent and starting
with March 2000 is 5 percent, being paid by employees from their net salary; and
- 108-



* Subsidy from the National Budget, based on law 49/1992.
Due to the fact that the sources of financing for CNPAS are different from the other
sources for MMSS, at the Judets level the separation between MMSS and CNPAS is almost
complete. In many Judets even the buildings are different.
The pension sector is a very special sector of public and private administration, being a
highly politically sensitive field. In order to cover the budgetary deficit for the pension funds,
the CNPAS has every year to ask for subsidies from the National Budget. Also CNPAS has to
have a much more intensive role in controlling and asking the companies to pay the social
insurance contribution. Unpaid contributions increase every year, coming both from the private
and the state owned sectors amounting to almost US$ 1.0 billion.
The National Solidarity Fund (NSF)
The NSF was approved by the Government of Romania by Emergency Ordinance no.
118/1999. Its source is a special tax on legally organized gambling operations and on luxury
cars. More than a year latter after approving the Ordinance the Rules for applications were
approved by the Government, through Government Decision no. 743/2000, in September
2000. Starting with this day, the Government approved more than ROL 463 billion of
expenses, although the total revenue was ROL 268 billion. The deficit of ROL 195 billion was
transferred to the current Government.
The NSF budgets are used for supporting families with multiple children, helping people in
need of special surgical interventions outside of Romania, increasing the social allowances for
students, repairing building of various state and administrative institutions for social services,
and a variety of other programs. They were also supposed to be used for micro-credit
programs (which were established together with UNDP office in Bucharest) but this apparently
successful element - by 5,000 applications received - was terminated at the middle of
September 2000, before the electoral campaign.
ANOFM
The ANOFM has been set up through the law no. 145/1998. This law indicates the source for
financing the activities of ANOFM which are the essentially the following:
*  Source 1:  5 percent tax on total amount of salaries paid monthly by the employers;
* Source 2: 1 percent contribution from employee on net salary;
* Source 3: subsidies from the National Budget.
Until 2000, ANOFM had a positive financial balance, although the unpaid but due
contributions from  various companies was very high.  Still the increasing number of
unemployed people (around 1.1 million during 2000) and the rising costs of unemployment and
severance benefits resulted in a growing deficit which had to be covered by loans and
unplanned subsidies from the National Budget.
- 109-



The law 145/1998 defines as main attributions of ANOFM organizing services of
professional training and re-orientation of the unemployed, financing the training courses and
analysis of the labor market, studies of the future directions and trends of the labor market, and
social problems of families in unemployment.
Labor Inspectorates
The Labor Inspectorates are organized according to the Law 108/1999. The Labor
Inspectorates are quasi-autonomous agencies territorially organized in order to supervise the
working conditions, and to increase the protection of workers from health, safety and other
risks. The Labor Inspectorates have also a number of responsibilities regarding the legal
working condition established through the Law 130/1999, which is focused on the legal
conditions to be fulfilled by the employers. The role and the status of the Labor Inspectorates
are not clearly defined either by law, or by internal rules and regulations.
Policy Development, M&E
M&E Unit is essentially the main data collector, data processing and strategic planning
unit within each institutional structure. The basic role of M&E Unit is to assist the executive
levels and top management of those specific institutions with data, trends projections and
solutions testing procedures in order them to better shape the policies and administrative
arrangements within the institution.
The basic structure of a M&E Unit is compose by three departments:
I . data collection and archiving unit;
2.  trends and data analysis unit; and
3.  reporting unit
*   The data collection and archiving unit is composed by experts in fieldwork. They have
to be computer literate, working with databases and specific software, although there is no
need to be trained as IT experts. The basic role of this unit is to collect data in various
formats, to store them and to be able to retrieve them under short notice. For example, the
data collection unit of the CNPAS should be able to deal with 10 million multiple records,
representing the names and other characteristics of persons entitled to receive a pension at
a certain date.
*   The trends and data analysis unit is composed by highly skilled staff, able to analyze
trends, characteristics, correlation, to run statistical software and data bases, and to write
projections for their sector. In the CNPAS at least of part of these experts should be
specialized in demography. In the ANOFM at least a part of them should be trained as
sociologists.
*   The reporting unit is the main interface with the executive levels and top management.
The reporting unit should employ long experienced experts in the field, maybe with less
- 110 -



skills in running statistical software and data bases, but deeply understanding the sector, the
balance of budgets, and the relationship with the Parliament and Government.
The MMSS has good experienced experts for the reporting units, but no experts in data
collection (fieldwork) and almost no one is skilled enough to be used as a trend and analysis
producer. This is why the MMSS is very good in fulfilling the administrative tasks, but weak in
M&E.
Conclusions
The activity of the MMSS during the last ten years is clearly divided into two development
intervals:
*  Until 1996, a growing number of tasks were transferred to the MMSS (eg. assisting the
newly unemployed, alleviating poverty, supporting low-income students to continue
their courses, and helping people in need to get better health assistance outside of
Romania); and
*  After 1996, a decentralizing process commenced, through law 145/1998 - establishing
ANOFM, law 108/1999 - forming Labor Inspectorates, and law 19/2000 - establishing
CNPAS.
- 111 -



Organizational Structure of the MMSS (March 2001)
ANNEXNOI
flhor,,-d No o ,w..oo,   -273
MINISTER
SECRETARIAL STAFF |
MNISTRY BOARD                                                                       LEGAL DIRECTORATE
ECONOMIC DIRECTORATE                                                                 INERNAL AUDIT BUREAU
FINANCIAL AND NVESTMENT
FOREIGN FINANCE PROJECTS
|HLUMA RESOURCES DRCOAITE
SPOKE PERSOR AND MEDIA RELATIONS
| SECRETARY OF STATE|  rSECRETARY OF STATE |  | SECRErARYOF STAT- |  | SECRETARY OF STATE
|[SECgETA ILAL STAFF |  | EECRETAS AL STAFF |  | ANOFM PRESIDENT |  |    CNPAS PRESIDENT
SECRETARIAL. STAFF,     SECRETARIAL STAFF
HOUSE OF PENSIONS OFFICE
.0~ ~~~~~~~~~ X                                                                            C
i  i    WL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_         El
f
0.   g;   -       U                                                                                            o'1 -1  '  
Source: MMSS, prepared bl IMAS
-112-



Additional
Annex 14
ROMANIA: SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
CGAS
1.    Organization
*     Subordinated to the Prime Minister
*     General Coordinator: The Minister of MMSS
*     Technical Coordinator
*     Members:
-  Ministers/State Secretaries from relevant Ministries and Departrnents
- Directors of Government Agencies
-  The National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies
-  Counties/local authorities representatives
-  Representatives of Trade unions/high vulnerable groups representatives
-  NGO representatives
-  Academic Community Experts
0Coordination Secretariat
*     Working groups: structural programs
*     Commissions for Social/Economic Development - at the county level
-  Diagnosis of the local social-economic problems
-  Setting up a local database
-  Resources identification
-  Development of antipoverty programs
-  Monitoring/program assessment
Note: The Commission will have a small coordination secretariat (5-7 people). For all other
activities the work will be outsourced to research institutes, universities or other organizations.
2. Tasks
(a)   Evaluation and continuous monitoring of the poverty dynamics:
*     Establishing indicators to identify the poverty dimensions;
*     Permanent monitoring of the phenomenon dynamics;
*     Anti-poverty program pre-evaluation: resources impact, potential efficiency
*     Anti-poverty policies and monitoring/assessment of other measures/programs
effecting the poverty status, for the purpose of:
1. Quicker remedial response
2. More focused action
- 113-



(b)   Preparation of an action-plan and implementation program for prevention and
alleviation of poverty
(c)   Exchange of experiences and good practices
The CGAS's task is not to create a parallel system to the existing one, but to identify
actions with anti-poverty effects on short, medium and long term and to incorporate them in to
the existing system.
3.    Structural Programs:
*     Program 1: Creation of a database with indicators for diagnosis and monitoring.
*     Program 2: Program Monitoring and assessment of projects/measures.
*     Program 3: Conception and assessment. On the first stage - preparation of an
action plan and implementation program, on the second stage -
monitoring of action plan implementation and preparation
of evaluation reports.
-     Program 4: Program support, exchange and dissemination of information,
experience and good practices.
4.    Duration: The CGAS will have an initial mandate of 4 years.
First Stage (March 15-September 30, 2001)
(a) Establishment of the CGAS.
(b) Initial appraisal of dimensions, extend, poverty types, vulnerable groups. To be used
primary for inforrnation and accumulated analysis with necessary supplements - March 15 -
March 31, 2001
(c) Preparation of an Action Plan - April 30, 2001. Action Plan to be adopted by the
Government - April 30-May 15, 2001.
(d) Preparation of Implementation Plan and its endorsement by CGAS.
(e) Identification and approval of the set of indicators that will be used for poverty monitoring
and assessment of the results of the antipoverty actions.
(f) Setting up an instrument for experience exchange and collective dialog: a wide spread
magazine.
(g) Implementation of Action Plan - objectives, institutionalized system, legislative
modifications. This first stage will be completed by July 30, 2001. The process of
implementing new measures will continue for the entire period of CGAS's existence.
(h) At the end of the first stage, the report on antipoverty plan will be prepared, September
30, 2001. This report will outline action plan and ways of its implementation.
- 114-



Second Stage (October 1, 2001 - June 30, 2002)
(a) Implementation of the action-plan
(b) Supporting the process of institutional building
(c) Conducting studies among highly vulnerable groups
(d) Appraising the results in implementation
(e) Preparing Second report, which will contain mid-term results, assessment, corrections and
suggested improvements. Necessary correction will be endorsed by June 30, 2002.
Third stage (July 1, 2002 - December 31, 2004)
(a) Implementation of corrections to the action plan
(b) Monitoring phenomenon and plan results
(c) Introduction of necessary corrections
(d) Providing support for institutional improvements
(e) Final Report with plan assessment, by September 30, 2004
Resources:
Government
*     directly through financing coordination secretariat
*     indirectly through financing some research programs
Local authorities
External donors - loans or grants for the CGAS structural program development and
from the second stage of concrete programs:
*     World Bank
*     UNDP
*     EU
- 115-






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28710
22S ,/               24'                    26                  28'
'UKo AIN RoMA N I A
4XB'  H                            U-N G A R Y \;' r, t _ *t eOTOSAN9 ELEVATIONS ABOVE 550 METERS
, ,                                 0  SELECTED CITIES
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
HUNGARY                                                         TS                      COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
Solo    t       C          -  C~A'/A    K                    *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
MoremopdonoNmply on*h.poreof  .  _(   tZorobilf   /  \  }'4L  0EXPRESSWAY
C    '%/$, - -                .1.~~~~~~~~~T KA-  OTHER PORTS
A S I ~~~~Er---RIVERS
-COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
A    *                             N                   -  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNAIONAL BOUNDARIES
I   \                           |   - -                                   MAY I 997~~~~~~~~~~~~N- - 
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bs
\,              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
C         Gor9het             ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~0 2T5 S  75    TMo
DIre  hr0      5~~~~~~~~ 10  20   SE   40   54   60
,.d  4                                          B".            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Q  6)
-16\                                            f%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T                                                                              I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAXS  Eoeo
SEA
jw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oVreMcos
cooS heorrderios~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I C55-
ALOMITA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19



