Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4616 RO
Loan Agreement
(Social Sector Development Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 6, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4616 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2001, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
(A)
the Borrower intends to contract: (i) a grant (the DFID Grant) in a 
principal amount of $970,000 equivalent from the United Kingdom on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the British Department 
for International Development (DFID) and the Borrower (the DFID Grant Agreement);  
(ii) a grant (the EU Grant) in a principal amount of $4,700,000 equivalent from the 
European Union (EU) on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the European Union and the Borrower (the EU Grant Agreement); and 
(iii) a grant (the CIDA Grant) in a principal amount of $580,000 equivalent from the 
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered into between CIDA and the Borrower (the CIDA Grant 
Agreement).
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ANOFM" means Agentia Nationala Pentru Ocuparea Fortei de Muncà, the 
Borrower’s National Agency for Employment established pursuant to the Law No. 145/1998 
as amended through December 30, 2000, or any legal successor thereto;
(b)
"CGAS" means Comisia Guvernamentalà Anti-Saracie, the Governmental 
Anti-Poverty Commission established pursuant to the Prime Minister’s Resolution No. 8, 
dated March 26, 2001, or any legal successor thereto;
(c)
"CNPAS" means Casa Nationala De Pensii ªi Alte Drepturi De Asigurari 
Sociale, the National House of Pensions and Other Social Insurance Rights, the 
Borrower’s agency, established pursuant to the Pension Law No. 19/2000, or any legal 
successor thereto;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (4), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, services and 
Micro-credits under the Project referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Lei" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
"LRP" means the Labor Redeployment Program to be carried under Part C.1 
of the Project; 
(h)
"LRP Operational Manual" means the manual, setting forth the operational 
and administrative procedures for carrying out the Labor Redeployment Program (LRP) 
under Part C.1 of the Project, dated April 18, 2001, as such manual may be amended 
from time to time upon the agreement with the Bank; 
(i)
"LRP Service Provider" means an entity eligible, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the LRP Operational Manual, to provide labor redeployment 
services under Part C.1 of the Project;
(j)
"Micro-credit" means a credit made or proposed to be made by a 
Micro-credit Service Provider to a Beneficiary for the carrying out of a Micro-project 
under Part C.2 of the Project;
(k)
"Micro-Credit Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through MMSS, and a Micro-credit Service Provider pursuant 
to paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this agreement on terms and conditions consistent with 
the provisions of the Micro-credit Guidelines; 
(l)
"Micro-credit Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between a 
Micro-credit Service Provider and a Beneficiary for the purposes of Part C.2 of the 
Project;
(m)
"Micro-credit Fund" means a fund referred to in paragraph 8(c) of 
Page  3
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(n)
"Micro-credit Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to in Part A.3(c) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative 
procedures for provision of Micro-credits under Part C.2 of the Project, as such 
guidelines may be amended from time to time upon the agreement with the Bank;
(o)
"Micro-credit Service Provider" means an entity eligible, in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in the OG No. 40/2000 and the Micro-credit Guidelines, to 
provide Micro-credits to Beneficiaries under Part C.2 of the Project;
(p)
"Micro-Project" means a specific project or investment under Part C.2 of 
the Project, which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing a 
Micro-credit; 
(q)
"MMSS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity, or 
any legal successor thereto;
(r)
"OG No. 40/2000" means the Government’s Ordinance No. 40 on the 
Accreditation of Credit Agencies in Order to Administer the Funds for Granting 
Micro-credits, dated January 30, 2000;
(s)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established under MMSS, or any 
legal successor thereto; 
(t)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
"PSC" means the Pension Supervision Commission to be established pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(v)
"Service Providers" means collectively Micro-credit Service Providers and 
LRP Service Providers; and
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million Dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Micro-credit to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for the Micro-project in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. dollars 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as 
a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MMSS with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower through MMSS and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Micro-credits will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the OG No. 40/2000 and the provisions of 
the Micro-credit Guidelines.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to any Micro-project 
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of 
the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower through MMSS shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower through MMSS shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower through MMSS, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower 
through MMSS, not later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered 
by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan 
during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The OG 40/2000 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement, or the ability of Micro-credit Service 
Providers to carry out their activities under Part C.2 of the Project.
(b)
The LRP Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
Page  7
repealed or waived without prior approval of the Bank.
(c)
The Micro-credit Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without prior approval of the Bank.
(d)
The DFID Grant Agreement, the EU Grant Agreement and the CIDA Grant 
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March 31, 2002, or such later date 
as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant, or the 
EU Grant, or the CIDA Grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
DFID 
Grant Agreement, or the EU Grant Agreement, or the CIDA 
Grant 
Agreement, respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under 
the DFID Grant Agreement, or the EU Grant Agreement, or 
the CIDA 
Grant Agreement, respectively; and (B) adequate funds 
for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
Facsimile:
11239
401 312 6792
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  8
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
(a) for Part B (2)
  1,200,000
expenditures,
of the Project
100% of local
 expenditures
(b) for other Parts
 12,000,000
(ex-factory cost)
of the Project
and 84% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)
Consultants’ Services
  3,080,000    
100% 
and Training
(except for Part B (4)
of the Project)
(3)
Labor Redeployment
 20,000,000
100% 
Services
(4)
Micro-credits
 12,000,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated 
  1,720,000
Page  9
TOTAL
 50,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "labor redeployment services" means services provided by the LRP 
Service Providers under Part C.1 of the Project, including retraining, on-the-job 
training, provision of temporary employment, employment counseling, and services of 
business development incubators.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a) 
in respect of expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table of Part A.1 of this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement has been paid;
(b) 
in respect of expenditures under Category 1(a) unless the Borrower 
through MMSS has submitted to the Bank satisfactory evidence that PSC referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement  has been legally established; and
(c) 
in respect of expenditures under Category (4) unless: (i) Micro-credit 
Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, have been approved by the Borrower; and (ii) a 
Micro-credit Administration Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed 
between MMSS on behalf of the Borrower and the Micro-credit Service Provider in 
respect of a particular Micro-credit Fund for which the Borrower has requested a 
withdrawal.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Micro-credits under Part C.2 of 
the Project; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts with individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) training; and (f) labor redeployment 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower through MMSS shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
Page  10
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  11
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the Borrower’s capacity in 
policy development, monitoring and evaluation in the areas of poverty reduction and 
social protection; (ii) to support a social insurance system reform, including the 
development of a multi-pillar pension system; (iii) to facilitate labor market 
adjustment and micro-business development; and (iv) to strengthen the social 
assistance system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Development, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Establishment of CGAS within the Prime Minister’s office through: (a) technical 
assistance and training; (b) office furniture and equipment, hardware and software, 
supplies and library development; and (c) the carrying out of policy studies.
2.
Provision of training, office furniture and equipment, hardware and software, 
supplies, library development and studies for the institutional building of the MMSS 
and policy development, monitoring, and evaluation capacity for social protection.
3.
Provision of office furniture and equipment, hardware and software,  training 
and audit services to the PCU.
Part B:
Social Insurance System Reform
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the CNPAS, through: (a) refurbishment of offices; 
(b) provision of office equipment, software and hardware; and (c) provision of 
technical assistance and training.
2. 
Establishment of the PSC, including: (a) refurbishment of facilities; (b) 
development of regulations, operating procedures, software and hardware systems; (c) 
acquisition of office equipment; and (d) staff training. 
3.
Provision of office and medical equipment, software and hardware and training 
for enhancing the capacity of the National Institute for Medical Expertise and Work 
Page  12
Capacity Recovery and medical expertise local offices of CNPAS.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and training for the development of a National 
Occupational Illness and Injury Insurance Fund. 
Part C:
Labor Market Adjustment
1.
Implementation of the Labor Redeployment Program (LRP) through: (a) provision of 
labor redeployment services; and (b) technical assistance for the supervision thereof.
2.
Provision of Micro-credits to Beneficiaries by Micro-credit Service Providers 
and provision of technical assistance for the supervision thereof.
Part D:
Social Assistance Strengthening
1.
Assistance to social assistance offices at the central and local level, 
including: (a) refurbishment of their offices and provision of office equipment; (b) 
provision of information technology; and (c) technical assistance to elaborate the 
institutional framework for social assistance; and (d) implementation of pilot social 
assistance initiatives.
2.
Development of training capacity within the MMSS, preparation of the curriculum 
for staff at all levels of the social assistance system and the coordination and 
delivery of training programs.
3.
Development of the public relations capacity of the MMSS at the central and 
local level through training, and the preparation and dissemination of materials.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2005
1,295,000
April 15, 2006
1,335,000
October 15, 2006
1,375,000
April 15, 2007
1,415,000
October 15, 2007
1,460,000
April 15, 2008
1,505,000
October 15, 2008
1,550,000
April 15, 2009
1,595,000
October 15, 2009
1,645,000
April 15, 2010
1,690,000
October 15, 2010
1,745,000
April 15, 2011
1,795,000
October 15, 2011
1,850,000
April 15, 2012
1,905,000
October 15, 2012
1,960,000
April 15, 2013
2,020,000
October 15, 2013
2,080,000
April 15, 2014
2,145,000
October 15, 2014
2,210,000
April 15, 2015
2,275,000
October 15, 2015
2,340,000
April 15, 2016
2,415,000
October 15, 2016
2,485,000
April 15, 2017
2,560,000
October 15, 2017
2,635,000
April 15, 2018
2,715,000
_____________________
Page  13
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for furniture estimated to cost less than $200,000 but more than 
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $810,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods, other than furniture, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $985,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $155,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  14
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods exceeding the equivalent of 
$100,000 per contract; and (ii) the first three contracts for furniture procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.2; and (ii) the first contract for goods procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 to this Section, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for: (a) carrying out training activities under the Project; and (b) 
carrying out studies under Part A.2 of the Project, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for carrying out the Project audit may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Labor Redeployment Services
Labor redeployment service provided by the LRP Service Providers under contracts 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured: (a) in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, or (b) in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and procedures set 
forth in the LRP Operational Manual.
5.
Services Related to Training
Services related to training (other than consultants’ services), including, but 
not limited to, transportation, hotel accommodations, training materials, shall be 
procured on the basis of comparing price quotations obtained from at least three 
national suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
Page  16
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower through MMSS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon with the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by July 31 and January 31 of each year starting on January 31, 2002, a 
report integrating the data from PMRs, results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower through MMSS shall:
(a)
maintain the PCU within MMSS with such staff and resources as shall be 
required for the PCU to perform its duties in respect of the overall management and 
implementation of the Project and shall be acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
establish by September 30, 2001, and thereafter maintain a Project 
Coordination Committee comprising the representatives of MMSS, PSC, ANOFM, CGAS, 
Ministry of Public Finance, Ministry of Public Administration, and the Ministry of 
National Defense which shall provide oversight and policy guidance for Project 
implementation.
3.
Not later than September 30, 2001, the Borrower through MMSS shall appoint an 
additional procurement specialist and an additional budget officer to the PCU, both 
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Not later than December 31, 2002, the Borrower shall establish PSC with adequate 
regulatory and supervisory authority, and shall satisfactorily maintain said PSC 
during Project implementation. 
5.
Not later than December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall establish a technical 
secretariat of CGAS within the Office of the Prime Minister, with staff, resources and 
Page  17
functions acceptable to the Bank, and shall maintain CGAS and the technical 
secretariat during Project implementation.
6.
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the LRP 
Operational Manual or the Micro-credit Guidelines without the Bank’s prior consent.
7.
For the purposes of carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower through 
MMSS shall:
(a)
select LRP Service Providers in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the LRP Operational Manual and procure their services in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II, Part C.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
enter into a contract with each LRP Service Provider on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
cause each LRP Service Providers to carry out Part C.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the LRP Operational Manual and the provisions of this Schedule.
8.
For the purposes of carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower through 
MMSS shall:
(a) 
select Micro-credit Service Providers, in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the OG No. 40/2000 and the provisions of the Micro-credit 
Guidelines;
(b)
enter into Micro-credit Administration Agreements with each Micro-credit 
Service Provider, under terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the OG 
No. 40/2000 and the Micro-credit Guidelines, and which shall have been approved by the 
Bank;  
(c)
authorize each selected Micro-credit Service Provider to establish a fund 
(Micro-Credit Fund) for provision of Micro-credits under Part C.2 of the Project, 
which fund shall be replenished through withdrawals from the Loan Account from time to 
time, in accordance with the terms and procedures of the Micro-Credit Guidelines and 
each respective Micro-credit Administration Agreement, provided that such fund shall 
not exceed the maximum amount of $1,000,000 equivalent; and 
(d)
cause each Micro-credit Service Providers to carry out Part C.1 of the 
Project in accordance with the OG No. 40/2000, the Micro-credit Guidelines and the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
9.
Not later than March 31, 2002, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a 
medium-term strategic plan for the development of CNPAS approved by its supervisory 
board and satisfactory to the Bank. 
10.
For the purposes of carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, the MMSS shall enter 
into necessary arrangements with the Ministry of Public Administration for provision 
of training to local government staff involved in the provision of social assistance.
