Page  1
October 15, 1999
H.E. Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest, Romania
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Social Sector Development Project
Grant Number TF026138
Your Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred 
forty-one thousand six hundred United States Dollars (US$641,600) (the Grant) to 
Romania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Suman Mehra
Acting Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Date:
November 22, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Social Sector 
Development Project, which has as main objectives the: (i) expansion of the labor 
redeployment program (LRP) to assist workers made redundant as a result of economic 
restructuring obtain alternative employment; (ii) strengthening of local governments 
in their administration and delivery of social assistance, supported by community 
development, and other safety-net services targeted to the poorest population; and 
(iii) implementation of a comprehensive multi-pillar pension reform, providing a 
fiscally sustainable mechanism to prevent poverty amongst the elderly. The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Activities
(a) 
Labor Redeployment – with the objective of expanding the coverage and 
Page  2
improving the quality of the LRP – assessment of the existing LRP, definition of 
problems and possible improvements; analysis of experience with micro-credit and 
related service providers, definition of regulatory framework to improve access by 
poor households to microcredit; establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) 
database; stakeholder workshops with workers and employers to develop and disseminate 
reform, which is expected to cost US$189,600 equivalent;
(b)
Social Assistance and Community Development – with the objective of 
strengthening local governments (LGs) in their delivery of the MIGS and integrating 
this more effectively in a community development strategy – review of existing studies 
on the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme (MIGS); analysis of involvement of community 
and ethnic issues; definition of improvements plus action-plan for strengthening LGs 
in their execution of the MIGS; design and development of a monitoring and evaluation 
database and management information system (MIS) on the MIGS at the LG level; 
workshops with communities and LGs to identify a reform action-plan and disseminate 
such plan, which is expected to cost US$322,600 equivalent; and
(c) 
Pension Reform – with the objective of introducing a fiscally affordable 
multi-pillar pension system – fiscal projections of alternative reform scenarios; 
definition of transition costs and identification of financing sources; assistance in 
drafting regulations for supervisory agencies for multi-pillar pension reform; which 
is expected to cost US$129,400 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, workshops and 
translation services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 2000. After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant. Except 
in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities 
after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall not be 
extended beyond the expected date of such approval. After the Closing Date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank after consultation 
with the Recipient by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Romania on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Romania, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. The Bank may 
also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance 
in the financing of the Project.. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Attachment
Page  3
Consultants' Services
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.  
Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection of Consultants.
3.  
Services for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 each or less 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines (Quality-Based Selection).
4. Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the 
provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
