Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15859
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
ROAD FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 1922-NEP)
June 7, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
$1       =   NR 50.70 (at completion - 30 June 1995)
$1           NR21.90 (at appraisal - May 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                      = i 8 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kini)                  0.62 miles (nmi)
GOVLRNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July' 16 to.July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOR       - Department of Roads
HMGN    - I-lis Majesty's Governmnent of Nepal
ICR       - Implemenitationi C'ompletion Report
MOF       - Ministry of Finanice
MOWT   - Ministry of Works and T ransport
RFRP      - Road Flood Rehabilitation Project
PEM       - Programme Enginieering Manager
PM        - Project Manager
IDA       - Internationial Development Association
SDC       - Swiss Development Cooperation
ODA       - Overseas Development Administrationl (U.K.)
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
LINDP    - Unjited Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
ROAD FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1922-NEP
Table of Contents
Page No.
Prefac.
Evaluation Summarym.
Part I Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................1
B.   Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................3
D.  Project Sustainability ..................................................4
E.   Bank Performance .................................................S5
F.   Borrower Performance ..........6.......................................6
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..................................................6
H.   Future Operation .................................................7
I.    Key Lessons Learned ..................................................7
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments .............................................9
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans and Credits ............................................             10
Table 3:       Project Timetable ............................................. 11
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...... 11
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................ 12
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................     13
Table 7:        Studies Included in Project ............................................               13
Table 8A: Project Costs .13
Table 8B: Project Financing .13
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .14
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .14
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .14
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .14
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .15
Appendices
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire .16
Appendix B: Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report -
Junel995 .......                                                                                 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
ROAD FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1922-NEP
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Road Flood Rehabilitation
Project in the Kingdom of Nepal, for which IDA Credit 1922-NEP in the amount of SDR 11.2
million ($15.5 million equivalent) was approved on 14 June 1988 and made effective on 19
January 1989.
The credit was closed on 30 June 1995, compared with the original closing date of 30
June 1992. The Final Disbursement took place on 20 December 1995, at which time a balance of
SDR 2.4 million ($3.6 million equivalent) was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in the amount of $0.77 million.
The ICR was prepared by Richard Leonard, EA2TP and Chris Hoban, Task Manager,
SA2EI, of the South Asia Region and, and reviewed by Jean-Francois Bauer, Chief, SA2EI and
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in June 1994,
and is based on material in the project file. The borrower actively contributed to the preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own Completion Report, a summary of which is attached as
Appendix B, and providing comments on the draft ICR. The full Borrower's Completion Report
and also a Completion Report written for UNDP are available on the project file.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
ROAD FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1922-NEP
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Nepal had a very limited road network up to the early 1970s, and its construction and
maintenance have been difficult because of unstable mountain terrain and high rainfall. IDA has
supported this sector with three previous projects. Credit 223-NEP ($2.5 million), satisfactorily
completed in June 1977 after some delays, dealt the replacement of substandard bridges,
construction of suspension bridges for porter traffic, preparation of a road maintenance program
and technical assistance. Credit 730-NEP ($17.0 million) provided for the upgrading of about 18
km of the main road link from Kathmandu to India, equipment for feeder road construction,
feasibility studies on potential future road investments and a training program for mechanics.
The Third Highway Project, Credit 1515-NEP (SDR 11.2 million), effective in January 1996 and
completed in June 1995, was in progress throughout the whole of this project and assisted with
improvements to the Kathmandu-Birganj Road and the East-West Highway in the Far West of
Nepal. The ongoing Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Credit 2578-NEP (SDR 36.6
million), which became effective in September 1994, is dealing with the maintenance and
rehabilitation of important road links and substantial institutional strengthening.
2.    A severe flood in 1987 caused extensive damage to roads in the Central and Eastern
Regions and the Kathmandu Valley. Land communications came to a halt along the East-West
Highway in the Terai and from Kathmandu to China (Tibet) along the Arniko Highway. In
January 1988, HMGN requested emergency assistance from IDA for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of damaged structures.
Project Objectives
3.    The project aimed to deliver immediate assistance to HMGN to carry out its program to
rehabilitate, rebuild or replace priority elements of flood-damaged roads and ancillary structures
in the Eastern and Central Development Regions and the Kathmandu Valley. It would also
accelerate the start of selected top priority works designed to protect investments in road
infrastructure that survived the 1987 flood.
4.    The scope of the works originally planned for the project were realistic in the light of the
factors and expectations pertaining at the time. The project design could have paid greater
attention to potential implementation delay problems already evident under Cr. 1515 and the
need to strengthen preventative maintenance measures to mitigate flood damage.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The physical objectives of the project were substantially achieved, though in seven years
rather than four. Physical targets were modified to some extent at a mid-term review in 1990, to
take account of the revised scope of initial works, implementation delays and overlapping
activities included in other externally-financed projects. Project savings were partially used to
finance some additional works to mitigate further flood damage in 1993.
6.    The project cost was $15.5 million, compared with the estimated cost of $18.5 million.
IDA provided $12.3 million compared with the SAR estimate of $15.5 million. The IDA
undisbursed balance represents 21 percent of the Credit. In Nepalese currency, however, total
expenditure was NR 630 million compared with NR 405 million at appraisal because of changes
in exchange rates. Expenditure of UNDP was $0.8 million compared with $0.5 million at
appraisal, and HMGN $2.4 million compared with $2.5 million.
7.    The project was extended 3 years from 30 June 1992 to 30 June 1995 because of slow
decision making processes in HMGN, slow procurement procedures and delays in construction.
Delays occurred in the design and bid invitation for the Arniko Highway and Thankot-Naubise
Road components because of overlap between this project and proposed projects financed by
SDC and ADB respectively, which necessitated changes to the scope of both contracts. In
addition, a Trade and Transit dispute with India during 1989 retarded all development activities
for many months, and was followed, during 1990, by the Democracy movement and the
associated civil unrest, which affected the East-West Highway component in particular. Adverse
weather affected all the contracts during implementation, but had a serious effect upon the
Thankot-Naubise Road and the East-West Highway river training works contract near Hetauda.
The lack of experience of contractors and consultants in international contract management
procedures also caused some delays.
8.    The lack of progress early in the project can be partly attributed to frequent changes in the
position of DOR Project Coordinator and the lack of authority afforded to him. The situation
improved following a Tripartite Review Meeting in 1990 when the position was upgraded to
Project Manager and greater powers vested in the position together with a continuity that greatly
benefited the overall implementation.
9.   IDA acted swiftly during the identification and preparation stages, it was flexible and
preparation and appraisal were achieved relatively quickly through close cooperation between the
Bank and DOR. The appraisal was deficient in ensuring appropriate up-front implementation
and procurement procedures for an emergency project. During implementation, IDA showed
flexibility and maintained a good working relationship with the implementing agency. IDA's
overall performance is rated as satisfactory. DOR's performance was very good during the
preparation phase of the project, when it rapidly carried out the assessment of the damaged areas
and the likely costs of rehabilitation, but it dropped off after the credit was approved by IDA
because of the slow decision making processes within HMGN. DOR eventually resolved its
project management problems and complied with all the major covenants. Borrower



iii
performance is rated as satisfactory during preparation but deficient during the implementation
phase because of this failure to respond to the emergency repair needs of the project.
10.   The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory based on the substantial achievement
of its physical objectives after some delay. However the project did not provide the prompt
emergency response envisaged at the time of preparation. Sustainability is rated as uncertain, due
to the need for more robust maintenance management. Because this was an emergency project,
no economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal and because of the nature of the costs and
benefits of flood repair measures, no economic assessment was possible at completion.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Maintenance effectiveness needs to be dramatically improved to ensure sustainability of
road improvements. This requires strong government commitment to improved management and
results orientation for maintenance spending.
12.   Measures should be put in place for the control of land use within the road right-of-way
and on slopes above and below the road where indiscriminate farming, quarrying and irrigation
could destabilize the slope and the road structure. This may require new legislation, education
and land acquisition, along with sensitivity to local situations. Particular attention to road repairs
and off-road maintenance (e.g. drain clearing, erosion control and river training works) before
and during the monsoon season will reduce susceptibility to flood damage.
13.   There is a need to improve procurement processing, customs clearance and inter-
ministerial coordination in DOR and HMGN, to permit timely and effective response to road
improvement needs and reduce the costs of works implementation. This will be enhanced by
increased delegation to project managers and staff continuity in these positions.
14.   The introduction of bio-engineering works on a large scale to assist in the stabilization of
hillsides was an important factor in the successful outcome of the rehabilitation works.






PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Objectives
1.    A severe flood in 1987 caused extensive damage to roads in the Central and Eastem
Regions and the Kathmandu Valley. Land communications came to a halt along the East-West
Highway in the Terai and from Kathmandu to China (Tibet) along the Arniko Highway. In
January 1998, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) requested emergency assistance
from IDA for reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged structures. The project objectives
were:
(a)   to deliver immediate assistance to HMGN to carry out its program to rehabilitate,
rebuild or replace priority elements of flood-damaged roads and ancillary
structures in the Eastern and Central Development Regions and the Kathmandu
Valley; and
(b)   to accelerate the start of selected top priority works designed to protect
investments in road infrastructure that survived the 1987 floods.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the Credit was to finance the first three years of HMGN's
emergency rehabilitation program, and was to include: (a) flood protection works ($2.4 million),
bridges, culverts and causeways ($3.8 million) and roads ($11.0 million); and (b) technical
assistance for consulting services by local and foreign consultants and equipment ($1.3 million).
Planned works comprised repair, reconstruction, strengthening and upgrading and limited new
construction of flood protection schemes, bridges, culverts, causeways and roads damaged during
the 1987 floods. Sub-projects were selected on the basis of criteria discussed and agreed with
HMGN. Initially, four areas of activity were identified as works sub-projects. These were:
(a)   Replacement of four damaged bridges in the Kathmandu Valley;
(b)   Riverbank protection works, landslide stabilization measures and road pavement
reconstruction on a 25 km section of the Arniko Highway;
(c)   Landslide and gully stabilization, watercourse improvements and road
improvement and rehabilitation works on a section of the Tribhuvan Highway
between Thankot and Naubise; and
(d)   Riverbank protection works and river training and diversion structures in Terai
rivers at widely separated locations spread out over nearly 500 km of the East-West
Highway between 30 km west of Hetauda and the eastern border with India.
3.    In addition, UNDP financed a Programme Engineering Manager who, in addition to his
role as advisor to the DOR Project Manager, was tasked to develop an effective flood damage
assessment system and to carry out on-the-job training in damage mitigation and rehabilitation.



2
Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The design of the project and original scope of the works were generally appropriate and
realistic for achieving the objectives of this emergency project. However the project design
could have paid greater attention to potential implementation delay problems already evident
under Cr. 1515 and the need to strengthen preventative maintenance measures to mitigate future
flood damage.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    The physical objectives of the project were substantially achieved after considerable
delays. These included:
(a)   Four two-lane bridges were constructed in the Kathmandu Valley to replace old
narrow bridges which had been closed because they had been damaged in the
floods, and this was causing considerable congestion on the temporary bypasses
and alternative routes in the city, particularly in the rainy season.
(b)   Ten critical sites spread out over 18 km of the Arniko Highway were rehabilitated.
The works were a mixture of slope stabilization works to deal with massive
landslides triggered by the 1987 flood surge down the Sun Kosi river, and of river
training works, groynes and bank protection to reduce the incidence of road
damage from river erosion during peak flood periods. A 2.5 km length of new
road, which had been constructed by the Army in 1988, was surfaced.
(c)   Sixteen sites on the Thankot-Naubise Road were improved to address the worst
problems of inadequate surface drainage, slope degradation, gully erosion,
landslides and damaged causeways over a 15 km length of this road with its
dozens of hairpin bends, which serves as the only access to Kathmandu from the
rest of the country. Slopes and gullies were stabilized and the road realigned in
one place to improve cross-drainage.
(d)   Nine sites spread over about 500 km of the East-West Highway works were
improved through river training, groynes and bank protection works aimed at
protecting road embankments.
6.    However, as the project was far behind schedule at the time of the annual Tripartite
Project Review Meeting in July 1990, its scope was substantially revised to focus on works
which could be completed before the Credit closing date of June 1992. The main changes were:
(a) the undefined second stage works on the Arniko Highway were deleted, with a
view that they might be included in a future project;
(b)  the Thankot-Naubise Road component was restricted to landslide stabilization and
drainage works, the road improvement works being taken up by forthcoming
projects; and



3
(c) the East-West Highway component was limited to major sites only and works
restricted to the general vicinity of the road.
7.    The reallocation of project funds represented a change in the number of sites to be
improved under the project, but no substantial reduction in the overall scope of works to be
undertaken. The revised targets were all met, though after a delay of three years.
8.    The technical assistance financed by UNDP provided engineering assistance and
specialist advice to the Project Manager, consultants and contractors and supported the
development of a monsoon damage monitoring system. The work on this system identified the
importance of off-road land uses such as irrigation and quarrying on road instability, and was
reported at a seminar on Disaster Prevention on National Highways in 1993. However this
system has not been implemented by HMGN.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
9.    During the course of this project various political events occurred which affected
implementation. The first was the Trade and transit dispute with India during 1989. This resulted
in fuel shortages which limited travel throughout the country and generally retarded all
development activities for many months. During 1990, the Democracy movement and the
associated civil unrest affected all HMGN activities and the East-West Highway component in
particular as it was not possible to travel to those sites.
10.   Delays to the design and hid invitation for the Arniko Highway and Thankot-Naubise
Road components occurred becauise of overlap between this project and proposed projects
financed by SDC and ADB respectively. This necessitated changes to the scope of both
contracts once these other donors had decided what works they would be prepared to include in
their projects.
11.   Adverse weather, which is nearly always a major factor in civil works contracts in Nepal,
affected all the contracts to a greater or lesser extent during implementation, but had a serious
effect upon the Thankot-Naubise Road and some sites of the East-West Highway contracts.
Exceptionally heavy rains in the hills to the south and west of Kathmandu in July 1993, as both
contracts were nearing completion, caused considerable damage to slope protection works on the
Thankot-Naubise Road and brought so much bedload down the Manahari River at the site of
river training works near Hetauda that the bed level rose about 4 meters to the crest level of the
newly constructed river training and protection works. The water level in the Rapti River
equated to that of a 500 year flood. The Manahari works, which were the most extensive of any
of the sites comprising the East-West Highway contract, had to be rebuilt at the new higher level.
Further severe flooding in 1993 caused additional damage at some project sites, which was
repaired under the project.
12.   Lack of experience of contractors and consultants was a significant factor in project
implementation. The inexperience of the local consultants who carried out the design and
supervision of the works became evident early on. This was overcome with the advice and



4
assistance of the Program Engineering Manager and Project Manager who initiated revisions to
designs and gave guidance on contractual matters and the standards to be adopted in the
supervision of works. All contractors failed to provide adequate equipment in a timely manner
for the works to be carried out and foreign contractors did not appear to appreciate the difficulties
of obtaining spare parts and carrying out major repairs in Nepal. Generally, the planning of
equipment, materials and Labour resources by both local and foreign contractors was weak.
Shortages of cement, timber, steel reinforcement, gabion wire and unskilled Labour frequently
held up progress. The local contractors were unused to working to international standards and
took some time to remedy their shortcomings in contract management.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
13.   Weak government control over encroachments on the right-of-way was a source of delay.
Legislation is also weak on land acquisition for slope protection works above and below the
roadway which are necessary in mountainous terrain.
14.   A proposal to appoint design consultants on a sole-source basis to speed up procurement
for the East-West Highway component was endorsed by IDA and DOR, but turned down by
HMGN.
15.   HMGN were not always able to provide the counterpart funds necessary to ensure smooth
implementation. This was particularly evident during the months after the start of the fiscal year
in July, when virtually no funds were available until the long-drawn-out budget provisions had
been debated and finalized.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
16.   Delays in procurement and project implementation were largely due to an unwieldy and
prolonged approval process within DOR and the Ministry of Works and Transport. The lack of
progress early in the project can be partly attributed to frequent changes in the position of DOR
Project Coordinator and the lack of resources and authority afforded to him. The situation
improved after the Tripartite Project Review Meeting in 1990 when the position was upgraded to
Project Manager and greater powers vested in the position together with a continuity that greatly
benefited the overall implementation.
Economic Analysis
17.   Because this was an emergency project, and because the benefits and costs of flood
repairs are difficult to quantify, no economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal. For similar
reasons, and the lack of monitoring of traffic delays and transport costs associated with road
closures, no economic assessment was possible at completion.
D. Project Sustainability
18.  Immediate sustainability of the Arniko Highway and Thankot-Naubise Road components
will be supported by follow-up projects being carried out on these road links by SDC, ADB and



5
IDA (Credit 2578). However true sustainability of the physical works under the project depends
primarily on the probability of timely and effective maintenance to preserve the value of road
assets. At the closing date of the project, there is considerable evidence that such maintenance is
not being systematically provided. Recent data on road network condition show a considerable
proportion of the road system in poor condition, and when sections currently under rehabilitation
are excluded, it appears that overall condition of the remaining highway network is deteriorating.
On those sections programmed for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, procurement delays
and lack of preventative maintenance have frequently resulted in accelerated deterioration prior
to works commencement, typically leading to more expensive emergency maintenance and/or
additional works costs. While routine maintenance budgets have been increasing, the
achievement of effective maintenance has been limited by a lack of management of work
programming and results.
19.   These issues were identified in the preparation of the ongoing Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2578-NEP), and an ambitious program of institutional
strengthening was developed with support of ODA, SDC and UNDP. This includes a assistance
for a Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit, Strengthened Maintenance Divisions,
Field Implementation Advisers, Plant Management, Bridge Management, a Priority Investment
Plan and a Pilot District Labor-Based Rehabilitation and Maintenance component. The ongoing
project also focused on increased budget allocations for maintenance and the establishment of a
Road Maintenance Fund. Many of these initiatives are beginning to show very positive results in
improved road rnaintenance planning, management and execution. In particular, DOR is
beginning to identify changes in management practices which place more emphasis on setting
and achieving maintenance targets. Continued pursuit of these programs over five to ten years is
likely to lead to sustainable road maintenance for the strategic network, but that this will require
considerable focus and commitment on the part of HMGN. In the meantime, sustainability of
physical works under the project must be rated as uncertain.
E. Bank Performance
20.  IDA acted swiftly during the identification and preparation stages within the constraints
of IDA procedures, which were somewhat relaxed for this emergency project. The initial
mission arrived in Nepal in early 1988, soon after the damage caused by the 1987 floods had
been fully assessed by DOR. There was little scope for innovation at this stage as it was clear
that damage had to be repaired and protection measures put in hand to prevent future damage.
Preparation was achieved relatively quickly through close cooperation between the Bank and
DOR.
21.   Appraisal involved mainly the identification of priority works and implementation
timetable, and agreement on the scope of thc technical assistance to provided by UNDP. In
retrospect, the project appraisal process could have done more to ensure implementation
mechanisms and up-front commitment to rapid procurement arrangements appropriate for an
emergency project. Given the elapsed time under the project, it also appears that some of the
works incorporated in the project were not truly emergency in nature, and could have been
incorporated into longer-term projects. For these reasons, IDA appraisal is rated deficient.
During implementation, IDA showed flexibility in discussion of sole source consultant
procurement and restructuring of the project targets after early delays. Supervision missions



6
visited twice per year on average and maintained a fair continuity of staff of appropriate
disciplines. IDA performance is rated as satisfactory.
F. Borrower Performance
22.   During the preparation phase of the project, DOR performed very satisfactorily, rapidly
carrying out the assessment of the damaged areas and the likely costs of rehabilitation. Technical
and environmental aspects were well covered and DOR showed a commitment to quick opening
of the more critical closed routes by bringing in the Army engineers to create new routes and
open the roads to traffic as soon as possible.
23.   Once the Credit had been approved by IDA, Borrower performance dropped off as slow
decision making within HMGN hindered the procurement processes. The Credit was approved
by the Board in June 1988, but was not made effective until January 1989. Following delays in
project definition, the protracted process of selecting consultants was not completed until March
1991, almost three years after Board approval. This delay led to the consultants being given a
very short time to complete their designs, which were later found to have deficiencies which had
to be corrected after the works contracts had been let. The project was at times rated as a
problem project on account of the slow progress with procurement of consultants and
contractors, which threatened to compromise the development objectives of what was intended to
be an emergency project.
24.   Frequent changes in the position of Project Coordinator together with the lack of
delegated authority given to him did not help this situation. When the position was upgraded to
Project Manager and was given more authority and continuity of tenure, the project benefited
greatly. A good project monitoring system was put in place and contracts rigorously supervised
by the Project Manager and Program Engineering Manager.
25.   After an uncertain start, when accounts and audits were well behind schedule, HMGN
complied with all major covenants in a timely manner in the later stages of the project.
Counterpart funding was a problem in the early stages because of the hiatus that occurred every
year between the end of the fiscal year in July and the passing of the budget by the national
assembly, which was often delayed until November. Because of the failure to respond
effectively to the emergency nature of the project, overall Borrower implementation performance
is rated as deficient.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The majority of physical works envisaged under the project were completed in an
effective manner, although after considerable delays which increased the implementation period
from four to seven years. The four valley bridges were reconstructed to a good standard and are
designed to withstand future severe floods. The more critical unstable slopes on the Thankot-
Naubise Road have been stabilized and the drainage improved. The Arniko Highway has been
restored and well protected against high water levels in the Sun Kosi River. The damaged areas
of the East-West Highway have been restored and protected against future floods. The project
provided training of DOR personnel and strengthening of the local engineering industry, and
identified off-road land use as an important factor in slope stability problems. A monsoon
damage assessment system was formulated, but HMGN decided not to implement the system.



7
As the project was prepared rapidly in response to major flood damage, it did not address
institutional issues related to sustainable maintenance, flood damage prevention or improved
project implementation.
27.   However the project did not provide the prompt emergency response envisaged at the
time of preparation. The project appraisal process could have been more rigorous in selecting
works and implementation mechanisms and ensuring up-front commitment to rapid procurement
procedures appropriate for an emergency project. The government could have acted more
expeditiously to achieve timely implementation. With these reservations, the overall outcome of
the project is assessed as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
28.   All the civil works components should continue to operate successfully for the
foreseeable future barring the intervention of exceptionally severe weather, earthquakes etc. The
Thankot-Naubise Road and Arniko Highway are in mountainous areas where the geology is
historically unstable and earthquakes and floods are frequent, so they are likely to be the first
components to show signs of failure in the longer term. Fortunately, both these areas are to be
the focus of follow-up projects by IDA, ADB and SDC, so an improvement in the road drainage
systems and further slope protection works can be expected, which will enhance the future
sustainability of the works already carried out.
I. Key Lessons Learned
29.   Maintenance management needs to be improved to ensure sustainability of road
improvements. This requires substantial changes in procedures for planning and executing
maintenance works, and for monitoring and reporting results achieved. While new procedures
and capabilities are being developed under the ongoing Credit 2578-NEP, their success will
depend on strong leadership and commitment from senior officials to improved management and
results orientation for maintenance spending.
30.   Measures should be put in place for the control of land use within the road right-of-way
and on slopes above and below the road where indiscriminate farming, quarrying and irrigation
could destabilize the slope and the road structure. This will require education and sensitivity for
local situations. Particular attention to road repairs and off-road maintenance (e.g. drain clearing,
erosion control and river training works) and before and during the monsoon season could reduce
the susceptibility to flood damage.
31.   While a number of project delays were outside the full control of either HMGN or IDA
(e.g. bilateral negotiations, the Trade and Transit dispute), others could have been avoided,
through decisive actions to expedite project execution. There is a need to improve procurement
processing, customs clearance and contract management in DOR and HMGN, to permit timely
and effective response to road improvement needs and reduce the costs of works implementation.
32.   Efficient contract management may also be enhanced by (a) increased delegation of
decision-making to the Project manager; (b) allowing sufficient time for design work and
contractor mobilization; (c) using more detailed specifications for equipment and materials



8
schedules in tender documents; and (d) providing further training for consultants and contractors
in the use of FIDIC based contract documents.
33.   The introduction of bio-engineering works on a large scale to assist in the stabilization of
hillsides was an important factor in the successful outcome of the rehabilitation works. While
the bio-engineering work carried out by the contractors had great value and were effective, it is
often appropriate to let separate bio-engineering contracts to experienced companies which can
continue to maintain and replace plants over a longer period.



9
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives              Substantial         Partial          Neglipible         Not applicable
Macro Policies                                             0
Sector Policies                                            E
Financial Objectives                                                                               0
Institutional Development                0
Physical Objectives                      0
Poverty Reduction                                                                                  F
Gender Issues                                                                                      0
Other Social Objectives                                                                            0
Environmental Objectives                 0
Public Sector Management                                   0
Private Sector Development               0
Other (specify')                                                                                   0
B. Project Sustainability                   Likely                      Unlikely                     lJncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                          satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                           0
Preparation Assistance                                               0
Appraisal
Supervision                                                         E0
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                   satisfactory               Satisfactory                   Deficient
Preparation                               E
Implementation                                                                                    02
Covenant Compliance                                                   0
Operation (if applicable)                                             0
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                   satisfactory    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
The selection of works components and choice of implementation arrangements and up-front procurement actions
could have been better defined to match the emergency requirements of the project.
2 This was prepared as an emergency response project, but implementation actions in the early years were very slow.



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                   Purpose                Year of       Status       Comments
Title                                            Approval
Preceding Operations
Credit 223-NEP       Replacement of substandard bridges,  197-   Complete    Closed Jun 77
construction of suspension bridges for
porter traffic, and preparation of a
road maintenance.
Credit 730-NEP       Improvement of section of East-   1977      Completed   Closed 31 Dec 84
Second Highway       West Highway; construction of
Project              bridges; training
Credit 1515-NEP      Improvement of Naubise-           1984      Completed   Closed 30 Jun 95
Third Highway        Malekhu Road and western                                 ICR under
Project              section of East-West Highway;                            preparation
construction of bridges; training
Following Operations
Credit 2578-NEP      Rehabilitation of several lengths  1994     In Progress   Closes 30 Jun 99
Road Rehabilitation    of trunk highway; Labour-based
and Maintenance      maintenance; training
Project



I1
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date
Steps in Project Cycle                            Planned        Revised         Actual
Identification                                                                    25 Jan 88
Preparation                                                                      Jan/Feb 88
Appraisal                                                                        Feb/Mar 88
Negotiations                                                                     2-6 May 88
Board Presentation                                  14 Jun 88                     14 Jun 88
Signing                                            21 Sep 88                      21 Sep 88
Effectiveness                                        Oct 88                       19 Jan 89
Project Completion                                 30 Jun 91      30 Jun 92       30 Jun 94
30 Jun 93
30 Jun 94
Credit Closing                                     30 Jun 92      30 Jun 93       30 Jun 95
30 Jun 94
30 Jun 95
Last Disbursement Date                                                           20 Dec 95
Table 4: Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
($ million)
IBRD FY    1989       1990     1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
Estimated                       2.50      7.20     13.10     15.50
Actual                          2.10      2.10     2.58      3.79      6.31     10.21       12.27
Actual as % of Estimate          84        29       20        24        41        66         79
Date of Final Disbursement                                                               20 Dec 95
After the final disbursement, SDR 2,409,285 ($3.58 million equivalent), or 21.5% of the Credit, was
canceled.



12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.   Key implementation indicators in President's Report                                  None
It.  Modified Indicators                                                                  None
III. Other Indicators
Contract    Planned         Revised         Actual
1.  Appointment of PEM                                                    I Jun 88                     11 Mar 89
2.   Shortlist consulting firms                                           8 May 88                     26 May 89
3.   Submission of proposals                                    VB       15 May 88                     23 Nov 89
AH        15 May 88                    16 Nov 89
TNR       15 May 88                     21 Nov 90
EWH       15 May 88                     21 Nov 90
4.   Award consultant contract                                  VB        28 Apr 90      30 Jun 90      5 Jul 90
AH        15 Feb 90      30 Jun 90      5 Jul 90
TNR        15 Jun 90     19 May 91      17 Mar 91
EWH        15Jun90       19May91        18Mar91
5.   Design works and prepare tender documents                 VB         30 Jul 90     24 Mar 91       I Feb 91
AH        7 Jun 90       16 Sep 90      30 Jan 91
TNR       15 Nov 90       1 Sep 91      21 Aug 91
EWH        15 Nov 90      1 Dec 91      15 Aug 91
6.  Prequalify contractors                                      VB       31 Aug 90       3 Feb 91      26 Oct 90
AH        30 Jun 90      3 Feb 91       2 Dec 90
TNR       31 Dec 90      25 Aug 91      5 Mar 91
EWH       31 Dec 90       1 Jun 92      26 Dec 90
7.  Submission of tenders                                       VB        15 Dec 90     26 May 91      26 Apr 91
AH        15 Aug90       3 Mar 91      26 Apr 91
TNR       28 Feb 91      22 Dec 91      14 Nov 91
EWH       28 Feb 91       14 Apr 92     17 Nov 91
8.  Award construction contracts                                VB       21 Mar 91                     18 Aug 91
AH        30 Oct 90                     3 Nov 91
TNR       30May91                       16Jan92
EWH       30 May 91                      13 Feb 92
9.   Sign contracts                                             VB                       13 Oct 91      16 Sep 91
AH                       23 Jun 91      2 Jan 92
TNR                      19 May 92       9 Feb 92
EWH                       8 Sep 92      13 Mar 92
10. Complete construction                                      VB        21 Oct 91      10 Apr 93      31 Jul 93
AH lI Jul 91             7 Feb 92       31 Jul 93
TNR        30 Jul 91     30 Jun 92      31 Mar 94
EWH        30 Jul 91      3 Feb 94      30 Jun 94
11. Complete defects liability period                          VB        21 Nov 91      10 Apr 94      31 Jul 94
AH        15 Jul 91      7 Feb 93       31 Jul 94
TNR       30 Aug 92      30 Jun 92      31 Mar 95
EWH       30 Aug 92       3 Feb 95      30 Jun 95



13
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
None
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
None
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Item   Description                       ($ m)                          ($ m)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
I   Civil Works              9.78       7.38      17.16     5.23      7.94      13.18
2   Equipment                0.00       0.07       0.07      0.00      0.01      0.01
3   Consultants' Services    0.72       0.54       1.26      0.79      0.77       1.57
4   Land Acquisition &
Operating Expenses       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.71      0.00       0.71
Total                   10.50      7.99      18.49      6.74      8.79      15.47
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Item   Source                            ($ m)                          ($ m)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                Costs    Costs
1   IDA (Credit 1922-NEP)     8.4       7.1       15.5      4.34      7.95      12.29
2   UNDP (NEP/88/008)         0.1       0.4        0.5      0.000     0.77       0.77
3   Government                2.5       0.0        2.5      2.41      0.00       2.41
Total                    11.0      7.5        18.5      6.74      8.72     15.47



14
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic evaluation carried out
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant    Present        Original         Revised
Agreement       Section         Typenan   t        t    Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type  Status       ~~Date            Date
DCA            4.01                1          CD                                         Maintain project records and accounts and submit audited and   Complied
unaLidited accounts to IDA                                with after
delay
DCA            Schedule 4,        2           CD       15 Apr 1989                       Provide adequiate annual budget for canying out the project,    Complied
para. I                                and annually                      including maintenance, and inform IDA annually of proposed    with after
thereafter                        budgetary allocations and take IDA's comments into account    delay
DCA            Schedule 4,        10           C       30 Juin 1989                      Carry out works in a manner satisfactory to IDA and fumish a   Complied
para. 2                                                                  list of subprojects                                       with.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                               Planned                                                          Actual
Project Cycle                            Weeks                              S                           Weeks                          $ ('000)
Preparation to                            N/A                             N/A                              3.5                             7.6
Appraisal
Appraisal                                 N/A                             N/A                              7.4                            15.9
Negotiations                               N/A                            N/A                              4.0                              8.6
through Board
Approval
Supervision                               N/A                             N/A                            54.2                           111.9
Completion                                N/A                             N/A                              9.0 (Est.)                     16.9 (Est.)
TOTAL                                      N/A                            N/A                             78.1                          160.9
Note: Totals for "Completion" are estimates. Actual totals up to 8 April 96 are 8.1 weeks and $15,700



15
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating 121
Specialized
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/   No. of   Days in    Staff Skills                                1  Types of
Year    Person_s   Field    Represented _11    Status        Objectives   Problems 131
Through Appraisal -
Appraisal              02/88       3        14     EPL/ECN/EGR           --       |             |
Appraisal through Board
Approval -
Post-appraisal         06/88       I        10         EPL       |                |             |
Supervision
Supervision 1          10/88       1        5          EPL                1              1      I
Supervision 11         03/89       1        4          EPL               2               1            M
Supervision III        11/89      2         5        EPL/EGR             2               2           D M
Supervision IV         06/90       1        3          EPL               2               2           D M
Supervision V          11/90      2         7        EPL/EGR             3               3         D C M F
Supervision VI         09/91      3         8      EPL/EGR/TSP           2               2         DCMF
Supervision VII        01/92       1        7          TSP               2               2         DC M F
Supervision VIII       05/92      2         5        TSP/EGR             2               2          D M F
Supervision IX         11/92      2         5        TSP/EGR             2               2            D
Supervision X          02/93       2        5        TSPIEGR             2               2            D
Supervision Xi         05/93       1        3           TSP              2               2            D
Supervision XII        11/93       1        4          TSP               2               2            D
Supervision XIII       02/94       1        2          TSP                1              1
Supervision XIV        05/94       1        2          EGR                I              I
Supervision XV         12/94      2         3         EGRx2              HS              S
Supervision XVI        04/95      2         3         EGRx2              HS             S
Completion
Completion             06/94       I       14          EGR       |                |             |
Notes: [1] EGR = Engineer, ECN = Economist, TSP = Transport Specialist, EPL ~Engineer/Planner
[2] 1 = Problem-free or Minor Problems, 2 = Moderate Problems, 3 = Severe Problems
HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory
[3] M = Project Management, C = Compliance with Covenants, D = Development Objectives,
F = Availability of Funds



16
APPENDIX A
Extract from Mission's Aide-Memoire, April 2 - 19,1995
1.    The mission had detailed discussions with the Deputy Director General, the Project
Manager for the Road Flood Rehabilitation Project and the two Project Managers for the Third
Highway Project (one for the Kohalpur-Mahakali Road and Kamali Bridge components and one for
the Naubise-Malekhu Road component) on the guidelines for the Borrower's Project Evaluation
Reports/Summary. Copies of the guidelines for the preparation of the report were given to the
Deputy Director General and to the Project Managers.
2.    There was considerable discussion on the details to be included in the Report/Summary on
the plan for the operational phase of the project. The mission pointed out that objective of such
operational plan was to sustain the flow of economic benefits accruing from the investments made
under the projects. Accordingly, for completed road projects the operational plan would include
details of the preparation, funding and implementation of a routine and periodic maintenance
program.
3.    The mission was given the following documents: the Project Completion Report on the
Road Flood Rehabilitation Project prepared by the Project Manager as well as updated Tables on
Project Costs and Project Financing and an Implementation Schedule showing planned and actual
dates for the project completion
General
4.    The objectives of the project, the restoration of the 1987 monsoon flood damage to the
national roads, have been fully achieved with the completion of all civil works, including the
additional works resulting from the July and August 1993 monsoon floods. Technical assistance to
the DOR was provided through a UNDP component by Louis Berger International who provided a
Program Engineering Manager (PEM) to oversee all aspects of sub-project selection, feasibility
studies, design, contracting and construction supervision including the selection of local consultants
for the design and supervision of the works. The PEM was also required give support and advice to
DOR's Project Manager, develop an effective flood damage assessment system and organize the
on-the-job training of DOR District Engineers. Assistant engineers were assigned by DOR to
support the PEM and the DOR Project Manager throughout the construction phase of the project.
The successful completion of the project is a considerable achievement considering the major geo-
technical problems on the sites and the difficulties norrmally associated with relatively
inexperienced local consultants supervising three foreign (Chinese), and one local contractor.
5.   In overcoming these difficulties, the project has made a very significant contribution to the
development and experience of the local consulting industry and DOR management and
engineering staff. The experience gained with the very complicated engineering designs needed for
the solution of the difficult geotechnical problems on the Arniko and Thankot-Naubise Highways
and the flood protection works oIn the East-West Highway should now be used to review other
consultants' proposals for similar problems.
6.    The present DOR Project Manager, Mr. Durga Prasad K.C., has been in place since
February 1991 and there have been three previous Project Coordinators/Managers since the start in
March 1989. The components of the project are discussed briefly below.



17
Kathmandu Valley Bridges
7.    The contractor, Sichuan International Economic-Technical Cooperation (SIETCO), has
successfully completed the construction of the four bridges at Nakkhu, Shobha Bhagwati, Ratopul
and Naikap in the Kathmandu valley. A Maintenance Certificate was issued on July 31, 1994 when
the bridges were handed over to the DOR. SILT-NEPECO-BDA Joint Venture have done the
design and supervision and have submitted a Completion Report to DOR.
River Training and Protection Works along the East-West Highway
8.    The works making up this contract are spread out over about 400 km of the East-West
Highway, from 30 km west of Hetauda to Kakarvitta in the east. The supervising consultants are
Multidisciplinary Consultants-GEOCE JV (MULTI), and the contractor is China Henan
International Economic-Technical Cooperation (CHIETCO). The contract maintenance period
expires on June 30, 1995 and since no major defects have been reported, it is expected that the
Maintenance Certificate will be issued at that time. The floods of July 1993 affected some of the
work sites necessitating redesigns and additional works.
Arniko Highway
9.    The highway was handed over to DOR when the Maintenance Certificate was issued on
July 31, 1994. This contract was supervised by ITECO-CEMAT JV, and executed by China Road
and Bridge Engineering CO (CRBEC). The land stabilization and bio-engineering measures
developed under the project appear have been successful during the July 1993 floods.
Thankot-Naubise Road
10.   The Maintenance Certificate was issued on March 31, 1995 (?) and DOR are now
responsible for maintaining the road. Such maintenance was not evident during the site visit and
the mission stressed the urgent need to clean all side drains as well as the catch water basin
including inlets and stilling ponds on the flumes before the monsoon rains. Despite many
difficulties and delays the contractor, Arniko Nirman Co-Jayee Construction JV (ANJC), achieved
good progress in recent months and has completed the works within the extended contract period.
The work was supervised by the consultants, ITECO-CEMAT JV.
Project Finances
11.  The mission was given an updated status of the project costs and financing. Annex 2 shows
details of the final Project Costs and the Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at NRs.
578.68 million, an increase of about 30% over the original estimate of NRs. 446.61 million. The
cost increases are mainly related to exchange rate fluctuations and the redesign and additional
works resulting from the 1993 floods. Annex 3 shows the status of Credit 1922 funds as of end
March 1995. Annex 4 compares actual implementation with that planned in 1990.
Summary of Agreements and Understandings Reached.
1.    DOR agreed to send to IDA by September 30, 1995, the Borrower's Evaluation Report on
the Road Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1922-NEP).



18
Extract from Mission's Aide-Memoire, October 31-Nov 8, 1995
Third Highway Project and Road Flood Rehabilitation Project:
Preparation of Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs)
1.   The remaining tasks for the preparation of these ICRs were discussed. For the Road Flood
Rehabilitation Project, DOR provided detailed comments on IDA's draft completion report, and
agreed to prepare a summary of not more than three pages from its borrower's completion report,
for inclusion in the final ICR. DOR also agreed to prepare an action plan for the operational phase
of the project.
2.   The mission discussed the sustainability of road works undertaken in the course of these two
projects. It is clear from a number of indicators that HMGN budgeting, programming and
implementation of routine and periodic maintenance works are not currently adequate to preserve
existing road assets, so that substantial premature deterioration is taking place on many sections
even while other sections are being improved. This was evident at a number of sites observed in
the field, and is reflected in the road condition data collected by MRCU. On the other hand, the
Department of Roads has embarked on an ambitious program of reform of road maintenance
planning, management and execution, which is showing excellent results in a number of areas such
as the SMDs. It was agreed that the continued pursuit of these programs over five to ten years will
lead to sustainable road maintenance for the strategic network, but that this will require
considerable focus and commitment on the part of HMGN.



19
APPENDIX B
NEPAL
ROAD FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 1922-NEP)
BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT - SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   Road Flood Rehabilitation Project was established in 1988 to undertake restoration of
damages caused by severe monsoon floods of 1987 to sections of East - West Highway, Arniko
Highway and Tribhuvan Highway. Major funding was provided to His Majesty's Government
(HMG) by the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank under Credit No.
1922 - NEP. Technical Assistance to the Department of Roads (DOR) was provided by UNDP
under a contract for Consultant Services.
2.   Four Separate areas of Project Activities were identified and developed as described below:
(i)   Replacement of four failed or damaged bridges in the Kathmandu Valley.
(ii) Riverbank protection works, landslide stabilization measures, and roadway pavement
reconstruction on a 25 Km section of the Arniko Highway.
(iii) Landslide and gully stabilization, watercourse improvements, and other road
rehabilitation works on a section of Tribhuvan Highway between Km 11 (Thankot)
and Km 26 (Naubise).
(iv)  Riverbank protection works and river training and diversion structures in Terai rivers
located at widely separated sites on the East-West Highway between 30 Km west of
Hetauda and the eastern border with India.
3.   The design of all components of the Project was completed in 1991 and four separate
Contracts of Civil Works Construction were awarded and signed with the aim of completing all
works before August 1993.
4.   All the four components have been successfully completed and handed over to the
Department of Roads for future maintenance.
Project Background
5.    Severe monsoon floods in 1987 caused large scale flooding which seriously damaged and
caused prolonged suspension of road transport along parts of East-West Highway and Arniko
Highway. This widespread devastation and damage to the physical infrastructure of the country
necessitated a major relief effort.
6.    In response to that devastating event HMG requested for assistance from the international
donor community to restore and rehabilitate the flood damaged sections of the road network.



20
Consequently, responses were received from SDC, ODA, ADB and IDA. Following an appraisal
mission in early 1988, IDA agreed to finance the first flood disaster relief project for road
infrastructure in Nepal and this funding was intended to act as a catalyst for the participation of
other donors to complete the programme.
Project Objectives
7.    The key objectives of the project were:
(i)  to deliver immediate assistance to DOR to repair, rebuild or replace priority
components of flood damaged road infrastructure;
(ii)  to finance the first three years works of the programme, ensuring that priority is given
to elements which would facilitate resumption of road transport activities;
(iii) to help DOR accelerate implementation of urgently needed schemes to protect
investments that survived the 1987 flood; and
(iv)  to develop and implement a post-monsoon damage monitoring system which would
enable DOR to assess and respond quickly and effectively to urgent damage repair and
rehabilitation needs in the future.
Development of the Project
IDA Credit Agreement and UNDP Technical Assistance
8.    The basis of the project was largely finalized by the February 1988 IDA Mission, and was
followed by the preparation of the Credit Agreement in May 1988. IDA Credit No. 1922-NEP was
negotiated and signed on September 21, 1988. Some priority works were carried out prior to 1988
monsoon on the East-West Highway under Retroactive Financing arrangements of the Credit
Agreement, but the main works were scheduled to follow the appointment of the design
consultants.
9.    The project document for the UNDP funded Technical Assistance NEP/88/088, under
which the services of the Program Engineering Manager (PEM) were to be provided, was signed in
September 1988, but the appointment of the Consultant was not finalized until February 1989. The
PEM mobilized in March 1989.
Project Phases and Activities
10.   The main phases of the project were identified as being:
1) Confirmation of sub-projects (Work Sites)
2) Design
3) Contracting
4) Construction



21
11.  In the original schedule prepared in May 1989, it was anticipated that the site selection for
rehabilitation of the Arniko Highway and East-West Highway would be completed before July
1989. However, these estimations proved to be over optimistic. Initial delays also occurred due to
overlap of activities with other donor agencies necessitating relocation of some project areas.
Therefore, during the first year of the project, a number of events served to delay the
commencement of any design work preventing finalization of site selection on most components.
Serious delays were made in the appointment of the design Consultants. Consequently, by mid
1990 the project had not progressed beyond the initial phase, and was generally assessed to be
about one year behind schedule.
Reconstitution of the Project
12.   By mid 1990 the project was far behind schedule. Thus, at the annual Tripartite Project
Review Meeting on July 6, 1990, attended by representatives of IDA, UNDP, MOF, MOWT and
DOR, direction was given to the DOR Project Coordinator and the PEM to completely restructure
the project to eliminate all work which could not be completed by mid 1992, the expiry date of IDA
loan.
13.   The subsequent recommendations from the project which were accepted are summarized
below:
(i)    Kathmandu Valley Bridges: Design work would proceed as planned, since the
design consultant was appointed, but the construction duration would be reduced to
12 months from 18 months.
(ii)   Arniko Highway Construction: The stage one design works would proceed as
planned, however, still undefined second stage works would be deleted from RFRP.
It was noted that they could hopefully be included in a subsequent SDC Project.
(iii)   Kathmandu - Naubise Road: The scope of work in this component was restricted to
landslide stability and drainage works possibly as an addition to the Arniko
Highway Consultancy Design Contract.
(iv)   The Terai Area Works: The scope of work was limited to major sites, all located
along the East-West Highway.
14.   Thus the tripartite meeting allowed for a major reallocation of project funds by deciding that
future planning could deviate from the individual site wise budgets which appeared in the IDA
Credit Agreement.
Institutional and Implementation organization of the Project
15.   Overall responsibility for project planning and implementation was assigned through the
Ministry of Works and Transport (MOWT) to the Director General (DG) of the Department of
Roads (DOR). However, in recognition of the emergency nature of the Project steps were included
to assist the DOR in the implementation and monitoring of the project. This was intended to be
achieved through the assignment of the PEM, together with a number of counterpart DOR



22
Engineers and by appointing Consultants for design, construction supervision and contract
administration. The Project works would be varied in nature and would be spread over a wide area.
It was therefore required that packages of sub-projects be developed area wise to achieve economy
of scale during the design and construction phases. The intention was that several small scale
works would be grouped under each contract rather than awarding separate Contracts for each
damaged site.
The Project Management
16.   The progress of the Project clearly suffered from the absence of effective management
during the first year or so. This led eventually to changes which upgraded the role of the DOR
Project Coordinator to that of Project Manager with the enhanced authority needed to effectively
manage the project. It is perhaps no coincidence that a significant and lasting improvement was
subsequently achieved.
17.   During the first two years of the project most matters were required to be referred to the
Director General (DG)/DOR and/or a MOWT/DOR Committee for all major decisions or
approvals. Consequently, prolonged periods frequently elapsed before decisions or approvals
finally came. In realization of these problems the Tripartite Meeting of July 1990 reviewed the
causes of slow progress of the project and inherent flaws in the Project Management. As a result
agreement was reached to upgrade the position of the Project Coordinator to that of the Project
Manager with additional responsibilities and enhanced authority. This was not only instrumental in
maintaining the momentum of the design and initial contracting phases but also allowed for a
smooth and effective execution of the project.
The Programme Engineering Manager
18.   The role of the PEM was deemed to be necessary to provide advice to the local Consultants
in regard to their responsibilities under international FIDIC contracting procedures as well as to act
as a technical adviser to DOR on all aspects of the design, tender and construction supervision.
Consequently, under a separate contract for Technical Assistance for Consultant Services, a
provision for the PEM was made.
DOR Support Staff
19.   Engineers and other supporting staff were assigned by the DOR to support the PEM and the
Project Manager (PM) through out the Project period. Engineers assisted the PEM and the PM
with the review of the consultant prepared designs and bidding documents. During the construction
phases some DOR Engineers and Overseers were seconded to each of the construction supervision
consultants work as integral members of the consultants' team. These arrangements proved to be
satisfactory as the Engineers also performed as liaison between the Consulting Engineers and the
PM/PEM and continued to assist them whenever required.



23
Local Consultants
20.   The project was innovative in the decision to employ the services of the local consultants
for the complete range of engineering activities from design, through the tender process and to
construction supervision. By requiring the local consultant to take over all aspects of project
implementation process including the role of the Engineer, the degree of responsibility was raised
enormously.
21.   Except for some inevitable weaknesses and inexperience in the technical and contractual
qualification in general the local consultants have performed their duties satisfactorily although, as
might be expected, there were times when some of the consultant's senior personnel lacked the
necessary understanding of the role of the Engineer under FIDIC Contracts.
Prequalification, Tendering apd Execution of Civil Works Contracts
22.   Prequalification questionnaires were prepared in compliance with IDA guidelines and
offered to International Contractors. Letters were also sent to all Commercial Attaches of all
foreign Embassies and Consulates in Kathmandu.
23.   However, although all prequalified contractors were invited to Tender, the general response
was poor. In all cases though, the Tender Evaluations led to positive recommendations which were
accepted by HMG and IDA. The successful bidders were:
Component                      Contractor
Valley Bridges                 SIETCO China
Arniko Highway                 CRBC China
Thankot-Naubise                Arniko/Jayee Construction Nepal
East-West Highway              CHIETCO China
24.   Three of the four components of the project were contracted to Chinese Companies with the
fourth (Thankot-Naubise) to the Kathmandu based joint venture of two Nepali Contractors.
Although the Chinese Contractors were very slow to mobilize, however, once a start was eventually
made, exhibited a strong commitment to prosecute the works, usually through a large work force
and willingness to work long hours. The quality of workmanship has usually been maintained at an
acceptable level and in many cases has been consistently high.
25.   The Nepali Contractor, though quick to mobilize, lacked adequate engineering and technical
personnel and proper understanding of FIDIC contract during the earlier stages, resulting in poor
and haphazard planning of the works. Their commitment however, greatly improved during the
later stages of the contract execution and were able to successfully fulfill their contractual
obligations with satisfactory standard of workmanship.



24
Other Project Activities
Post-Monsoon Damage Monitoring and Assessment
26.   The PEM carried out the Post Monsoon Damage Monitoring with assistance from the DOR
Engineers ad the findings formed the basis of the recommendations which were contained in a
RFRP produced paper on Disaster Prevention on National Highways presented at the UNDP/JICA
seminar in March 1993. Essentially, it was noted that there appeared to be a direct correlation
between irresponsible land use practices, such as irrigation and quarrying activities, and the
occurrence of landslides, which could perhaps be avoided with improved land use practices. The
need for a system of Post Monsoon Monitoring and Damage Assessment remains valid, although
there is still little prospect of securing an effective response, except in the situation of catastrophic
failures, such as have occurred in 1993 in the central region of Nepal.
Training of DOR Personnel
27.  In addition to continuous informal on-the-job training of the DOR Engineers and
Consultant personnel formal training courses on River Training and Protection Works,
Construction Supervision and Quality Control and Roadside Support Maintenance were organized.
In each case manuals were developed and presented and active participation was introduced
through workshop and discussion groups.
28.   The training seminars were well attended, each by 20-30 full time participants, most of
whom provided active involvement during workshop and discussion sessions.
Project Implementation Milestones
29.   The problems of initial site selection and the appointment of design consultants continued
until mid 1990. The turning point in the project's fortunes was clearly the July 1990 Tripartite
Meeting which led to the upgrading of the Project Coordinator and directed the reconstitution of the
work within each of the Project components to achieve completion by July 1992. The subsequent
prompt and positive finalization of preliminary selection of work-sites for the East-West Highway
and Thankot-Naubise components and the commencement of the design stages of the Valley
Bridges and Arniko Highway components served to establish an impetus which as maintained
through the award of the construction contracts.
30.   The construction duration of all components increased following the design phase, during
which the work content at many of the selected work sites was reviewed significantly. Thus, the
contractual construction completion dates were eventually set at about a year behind the Project
Reconstitution Report targets, warranting an extension of the Credit Closing date to June 1993.
Later on, due to damage inflicted by record level floods of July 1993, DOR with IDA approval
decided to undertake additional rehabilitation works on the damaged sites, particularly in the East-
West Highway and Thankot-Naubise works requiring a final time extension of the closing date of
the Credit Agreement up to 30 June, 1995.



25
31.   By 30 June 1995 all construction works including other project obligations had been
completed satisfactorily, although time extensions of 3.5, 11.5 and 10 months were necessitated for
Valley Bridges, East-West Highway and Thankot-Naubise component respectively with Arniko
Highway being completed within the original contract period. It may thus be safely concluded that
the majority of the project works were implemented and performed as intended verifying the
designs and the construction quality.
Activities of the Bank
32.   The contribution of the World Bank in the project identification, appraisal, preparation, and
supervision may be considered as being highly satisfactory.
33.   The identified project components were consistent with the government development
priorities and contributed greatly towards return to normalcy and resumption of passenger traffic on
the affected highways following the devastating 1987 floods. The successful completion of the
project would not have been possible without the close cooperation between the Bank, the project,
and the consultants during all phases of project implementation.
34.   Advice and decisions of the regular supervision missions of the Bank were given due
attention by the project and the flexibility and positive attitude shown by the Bank in suggesting
improvements in the project management as well as timely approvals of the modifications to some
of the unrealistic development activities played a vital role in easing the initial restraints and paving
a way for smooth and successful implementation of the project.
Project Costs and Financing
35.   The total cost of the project was estimated to be US$ 18.5 million at the time of signing of
Credit Agreement in September 1988. Financing would comprise of IDA Credit of US$ 15.5
million worth about 84% of total project cost. HMG would provide US$ 2.5 million worth about
13.5% of total project cost as counterpart funds and UNDP would provide Technical Assistance
fund of US$ 0.5 million.
36.   Actual latest estimates indicate that the Final Project cost would be about US$ 15.442
million, comprising of IDA Credit of US$ 12.268 million worth about 79.45% of total cost,
contribution from HMG/Nepal being US$ 2.403 million worth about 15.56% of total cost and US$
0.79 million from the UNDP Technical Assistance.
37.   Although the actual project cost in terms of US $ has decreased in comparison to the
original estimate by more than three million US dollars, the project expenditures in terms of
Nepalese Rupees has increased considerably from estimated NRs 405.15 million to NRs 629,177
million, an increase by about 55%. This was caused primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations of
the Nepalese Rupees against the US dollar from NRs. 21.90 at the time of Project Appraisal to
NRs. 50.68 at the time of project completion as well as redesign and some additional construction
works necessitated due to heavy monsoon floods of July 1993.
38.   The details of Project Costs and Project Financing are attached.



26
Concluin
39.   The overall objective of the project to rehabilitate damage from the 1987 monsoon floods
has been successfully accomplished in all of the four components of the project. That may, in
itself, be sufficient grounds for concluding that the method of implementation using local
consultants and local or International Contractors with the support of an expatriate adviser to the
DIR Project Manager was a success. This arrangement did work remarkably well and may be
employed as a model for future development projects of the Department.
40.   It should be recalled that this is the first such Road Project which has been undertaken
without the full time services of an expatriate consultant for engineering design and construction
supervision and that in 1988, this concept had not been established as being viable. However, the
arrangement established that the shortcomings arising from the relative inexperience of the local
consultants, both in practical application of design concepts and in the supervision of international
FIDIC based Contracts and Contractors could be satisfactorily controlled by a DOR Project
Manager with sufficient authority and the necessary support from an expatriate Project Advisor.
41.   The local consultants demonstrated that they possessed the basic technical expertise to
design the works and to supervise the construction phase. However, there were occasions when the
designs proved to be unsuited to the actual site conditions. This was partly due to overly theoretical
approach and partly to a failure to verify selected schemes against the site conditions. As a
consequence many elements of the three highway components had to be redesigned. Contract
administration was generally handled effectively, with many procedures being improved
throughout the Contract period.
42.   The contractors also exhibited considerable technical ability and a general commitment to
the works which proved to be sufficient to substantially complete the works to a satisfactory
standard within, or close to the Contract period.
43.   The regular supervision missions of the World Bank played a useful role in successful
completion of the project by providing timely suggestions and extending cooperation in easing
some of the initial restraints in the Project Implementation..
Recommendations
44.   The concept employed under RFRP to employ the services of an expatriate consultant as an
Advisor to assist the DOR and local consultants in the development, design and implementation of
road projects should be encouraged for future development works.
Project Planning Related Issues
(i)   Project Management: The Project Manager must be given sufficient authority to enable
him to control the progress of the various stages of the project, and should be committed to
a prolonged period of tenure.



27
(ii)  Interaction with Other Donor Funded Projects: There must be closer liaison between the
donor agencies to avoid confusion duplication and consequent delay in the assignment of
project elements.
(iii)  Inadequate Design and Tender Preparation Duration: Sufficient time must be assigned to
each of these phases. If necessary, the outline design should be corroborated against the
actual site locations including verification of the investigation and survey.
(iv)   Design Terms of Reference: The guidelines must be compatible and sufficiently detailed to
correspond with the original concepts developed at the site selection stage.
(v)   Land Acquisition and Community Relations: Wherever the project works are expected to
occupy private or community owned land or property, consultations and meetings should be
held with landowners and community leaders at the outline design stage.
(vi)  Separate Contract for Bio-Engineering Works: Separate contracts be awarded to Bio-
Engineering works and maintenance period of such works be extended to 2-3 years. This
would ascertain proper execution of such works and enhance survival rate and make Bio-
Engineering Works effective in landslide stabilization purposes.
(vii)  Inadequate Time Allowance for Contractor Mobilization: The mobilization period for
international competitive contracts should be extended to three months.
(viii)  Effects of the Monsoon Season: The scheduling of all phases of the project should be made
with due respect to the restrictions imposed by the monsoon season.
(ix)   Availability of Construction Equipment and Materials: Minimum equipment holdings
should be set out in the bidding documents and required to be relatively new or newly
reconditioned. Similarly, the Materials Schedule for all imported materials should be
required to be included with the Tender.
(x)   The Local Road Construction Industry: The need for further training of both Consultant
and Contractor personnel in the appropriate aspects of the administration and
implementation of international FIDIC based Contracts should be recognized and
developed further under future Projects. Efforts with HMG, to ease the restriction on local
contractors working on International Contracts, need to be pursued..
(xi)  Political Disturbances: Such situations are usually covered by the Contract Conditions and
cannot easily be fiurther qualified.
(xii)  Unrealistic Development Objectives: The development objectives should be both
practicable and achievable, and should not conflict with the ongoing Project Works.
Regular reviews of the progress of development activities are recommended to enable
alternative approaches or revised objectives to be considered.



28
Issues associated with the Control of Monsoon Flood Damage
45.   Both the implementation of Project Works and the Development Activities to monitor and
assess the monsoon season flood damage served to highlight relatively less importance given by the
DOR to areas outside the roadway pavement. Since the long term objective should be directed to
the reduction of monsoon flood damage by improving the stability of both road/river embankments
and hillsides, the following recommendations are of prime importance.
(i)   Roadway Right of Way: The Right of Way has to be demarcated and controlled throughout
the entire network of National Highways. This issue is sufficiently important to warrant the
establishment of a separate section within DOR, possibly under a DDG. However, since
enforcement of Right of Way involves cooperation with District Officials of the Civil
Administration the policy would first need to be endorsed at the highest levels of
Government.
(ii)   The Road Corridor: There is perceived to be lack of appreciation of the importance of the
road corridor, particularly in hilly and mountainous terrain, to the overall stability and
condition of the highways established by the fact that little or no funding is available for
either routine or emergency maintenance of Off-Highway features.
46.   The main long term objective to improve the stability of roadway embankments and
hillsides can only be achieved through continued strengthening of riverbanks and the imposition of
improved land use practices on hillsides adjacent to the Highway. Such measures would require
the initiative from the HMG/N initially through the National Planning Commission, to formulate
policy and responsive involvement of a number of HMG Departments including the Department of
Roads, Land Management, Forests, Mines and Local Bodies. Regular annual budgets for elements
such as land acquisition, further strengthening and stabilization measures and improved routine and
emergency maintenance. Since HMG would have little funding available, it is anticipated that the
involvement of foreign donors will be needed for the foreseeable future.






IMAGINGA
Report No:       15859
Type: ICR



