Report No. PIC5010
Project Name                Jordan-Community Infrastructure Project (@)
Region                      Middle East and North Africa
Sector                      Multisector
Project ID                  JOPA49581
Borrower                    The Government of Jordan
Implementing Agencies       Ministry of Planning
Project Management Unit (MOP/PMU)
P.O. Box 555, Amman - Jordan
Eng. Yousef Batshon
Director of Infrastructure Department
Tel:    962-6-644-466
Fax:    962-6-649-341
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC)
P.O. Box 2110, Amman - Jordan
Eng. Yousef Hiasat
Director General
Tel:    962-6-644-307
Fax:    962-6-628-938
Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB)
P.O. Box 1572, Amman - Jordan
Dr. Hamad Kasasbeh
Director General
Tel:    962-6-668-124
Fax:    962-6-601-924
Environmental Category      C
Date PID Prepared           April 21, 1997
Appraisal Date              April 11, 1997
Projected Board Date        August 21, 1997
Sector Background
1.      Jordan has successfully implemented a stabilization program
with the support of the IMF, and virtually all macroeconomic
indicators have moved in a favorable direction. However,
unemployment and poverty rates rose dramatically during the Gulf
War. They have declined since but remained at high levels. Poverty
in Jordan is both recent (a product of economic downturn in the
late 1980s and the Gulf War) and shallow (the average poor
household would not have to increase its income much to rise above
the poverty line.
2.      Most of the poor are concentrated in low-income settlements
(economically depressed municipalities and villages all over
Jordan, squatter settlements and Refugee Camps) where
infrastructure and services are below generally acceptable



standards.
Project Objectives
3.      The proposed Project represents a time-slice of a Community
Infrastructure Program (CIP) for the provision of essential
physical and social infrastructure in poor urban and rural
communities where such services are sub-standard. The CIP is a part
of the Social Productivity Program (SPP) which is a major
initiative of the Government of Jordan (GOJ) to mitigate poverty
and reduce unemployment. The Project's main development objective
is to improve the living conditions of the poor through the
provision of essential physical and social infrastructure services.
A secondary objective is to improve institutional capacity of
central and local government agencies responsible for Project
implementation.
Project Description
4.      The proposed project would consist of the following
components:
(a)     upgrading essential physical and social infrastructure in
about 14 urban squatter settlements (US$ 31.4 million);
(b)     upgrading on-site essential physical and social
infrastructure in about 13 Refugee Camps (US$ 28.4 million);
(c)     providing about five wastewater treatment and disposal
facilities to service 5 Refugee Camps and neighboring areas (US$
31.4 million);
(d)     providing essential physical and social infrastructure in
low-income municipalities and villages in the Kingdom (US$ 31.4
million); and
(e)     providing consultancy services to MOP/PMU, HUDC, and CVDB to
strengthen institutional capacity in project implementation (US$
7.4 million).
Project Cost and Financing
5.      The total project cost is currently estimated at $130
million. IBRD financing is expected to be $50 million. The
contribution of the Government is estimated at $30 million (it
could change based on donor's specific requirement for counterpart
funds), and $50 million of cofinancing is envisaged.
Project Implementation
6.      The Borrower will be the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. HUDC
will implement sub-projects under components (a), (b) and (c)
(para. 4) of the project in coordination with other government
agencies. CVDB will implement sub-projects under component (d)
(para. 4) of the project under the policy guidance of a steering
committee headed by the Ministry of Planning.
- 2 -



Project Sustainability
7.      Sub-projects will be selected with local participation to
ensure ownership. They will consist of small civil works requiring
only periodic repairs. Sub-projects will be designed to meet
minimum standards of service quality with cost-minimization
approaches and with affordable contributions of beneficiaries.
Contractual agreements between the implementing agencies (HUDC and
CVDB) and beneficiary local governments will include provisions for
proper maintenance after transfer of completed services to them.
Services such as water and wastewater will be maintained by the
water authority. The project will also include a component to build
institutional capacity in local governments to ensure that they
take responsibility for the maintenance of local services.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in the
Country/Sector
8.      Previous Bank-financed urban development projects attempted
unsuccessfully to achieve full cost recovery. Implementing agencies
were unable to collect service charges higher than those charged by
the main public utilities in non-project areas. This project will
be designed with local participation in the selection of priority
sub-projects and affordable service quality. Sub-projects will be
designed to meet minimum service quality standards and will follow
cost-minimization approaches to enable affordable cost-sharing.
Cost recovery will not exceed the amounts paid by others for
similar quality of services according to standard practice in
Jordan.
9.      Furthermore, to avoid previous experience of delayed project
implementation because of land tenure issues, all eligible areas
under the project will have to be properly zoned and public rights-
of-way approved and secured by the concerned
municipalities/government agencies.
Poverty Category
10.     The project is designed to mitigate rising poverty and
unemployment - two main concerns of the Government. Under the SPP a
number of poverty-related issues would be addressed through
concerted efforts to improve quality of life; skills; employment
and the social safety net for the poor.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project has been placed in environmental screening
Category "C" consistent with Operational Directive 4.01 (see
attached Annex).
Project Benefits
12.     The project is expected to produce financial, social and
economic benefits with regards to:
- 3-



(a)     Improving the living and safety conditions of people in poor
communities through the provision of: safe access roads; street
paving and lighting; drainage systems to reduce the risk of loss of
human life and property damage due to floods; efficient potable
water supply and sanitation services to reduce the incidence of
water-borne disease, health and environmental problems; and social
infrastructure such as schools, health centers, community and youth
centers to improve productivity.
(b)     Generating income by creating temporary employment
opportunities for the unemployed poor through labor intensive sub-
projects.
(c)     Improving data on poverty through surveys and studies to
target beneficiaries.
(d)     Building capacity in local governments for prioritizing needs
with participation of beneficiaries, and for improving planning,
design, implementation and maintenance of essential infrastructure.
Project Risks
13.     Some of the project sites concern settlements built illegally
on private land and public rights-of-way may not be legal. Approval
of the area zoning plans by concerned municipalities, which should
acquire the public rights-of-way, would be a condition for
eligibility of benefited areas. The legal issues will be explored
during appraisal and those areas which may present intractable land
tenure problems would be delayed for future upgrading programs.
Program Objective Category       Poverty reduction
Contact Point:           Mario Zelaya, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0609
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 29, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The project has been placed in environmental screening Category "C"
consistent with Operational Directive 4.01 because most sub-
projects will be of small size and will result in environmental
improvements. There will be about five or six off-site small sewage
treatment and disposal facilities to service Refugee Camps and
neighboring areas (to be funded by bilateral donors and
government). The size and location of these plants are not yet
known; however, during appraisal agreement will be sought that
these sub-projects will be subjected to environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) during the planning stage, and that the design
of such facilities will take into account mitigative measures
recommended by the EIAs. Also, agreement will be sought during
appraisal on the need to study other alternatives such as the
provision of pumping stations to transfer wastewater to existing
treatment facilities rather than building new ones.
There are no archeological sites known to exist in the project
areas, however, measures will be taken during project
implementation to ensure that the Department of Antiquities plays a
key role in the monitoring of the works.
Upgrading included in the project will not require relocation of
people. The project, however, will include a component to prepare
future projects in areas where some resettlement of people may be
required. This advance preparation will enable the government and
donors to implement subsequent phases of the Community
Infrastructure Program in an orderly manner.
- 5 -



