Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
February 7, 2003 
 
H.E. Bassam Awadallah 
Minister of Planning  
Ministry of Planning, Post Office Box 555 
Amman, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Re:  
Japan Social Development Fund Grant for the Legal 
 
Aid for Poor Women Project TF026801
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan 
under the Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one 
hundred ninety one thousand (US$191,000) (the Grant) to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance with the 
project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and 
on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement 
and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Page  2
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-2- 
TF026801 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by 
the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Osman Ahmed
Joseph P. Saba 
Acting Country Director 
Middle East Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By /s/ Bassam Awadallah
Name Bassam Awadallah
Title Minister of Planning  
 
Date: March 20, 2003 
Page  3
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Description 
of 
the 
Project
1.1. 
The objective of the Project is to provide legal services to poor women in Jordan as a 
means to improve their daily lives. The Project is complementary to the Community 
Infrastructure Project (Loan Number 4215-JO).  
 
1.2. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following 
activities (Activities): 
 
Part A:
Legal Aid Services 
(Estimated to cost US$ 144,000) 
 
Technical assistance for providing support services to women including legal, medical 
and psychological support services to at least 300 women per quarter for two years.
 
Part B:
Public Education 
(Estimated to cost US$ 13,000) 
 
Technical assistance for conducting five (5) workshops to educate the public throughout 
the country on laws affecting women and preparing documentation explaining these laws for 
dissemination in court houses, public stations and public hospitals.
 
Part C:
Training of Judges and Court Personnel 
(Estimated to cost US$10,000) 
 
Providing ten (10) training courses to court personnel and judges on gender sensitivities 
in relation to national laws and international treaties. 
 
Part D:
Proposals for Sustainability 
(Estimated to cost US$ 4,000) 
 
Technical assistance for the preparation of proposals for means to render legal aid 
services self-sustainable through partnerships with the private sector or other self-funding 
mechanisms.
 
Part E
Development of Monitoring Indicators 
(Estimated to cost US$ 20,000) 
 
Technical assistance for the preparation of baseline standards for service delivery to low-
income citizens. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project  through the Jordan River Foundation, a Non 
Governmental Organization established under the laws of the Recipient, with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as 
the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures 
required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for purposes 
related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project. 
 
Page  4
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-2- 
TF026801 
 
2.2. 
Jordan River Foundation shall be responsible, subject to the general oversight and guidance 
of the Recipient, for the day-to-day management and implementation of the Project, including, 
development of the annual work program and budget, maintenance of a financial management 
system, preparation and production of annual progress reports, audits and financial statements, 
management of procurement and disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation activities.  
 
2.3 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2.1 and 2.2 above, the Recipient shall 
cause the Jordan River Foundation to establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, a focal unit headed by a Grant Coordinator, managed and staffed with 
experienced personnel in adequate number, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. Procurement 
 
3.1. 
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in United States dollars
)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Goods 
 
5,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
(2) Consultants’ 
services  
 
168,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Training 
 
18,000 
 
100 % 
 
TOTAL 
___________ 
191,000 
========== 
 
Page  5
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-3- 
TF026801 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the 
Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b)
 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February 28, 2005 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four (4) months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Planning or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that 
the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to 
be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5.
 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$25,000 equivalent; and (c) goods and training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in United 
States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments 
Page  6
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-4- 
TF026801 
 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this 
Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or 
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with 
the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall 
have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six (6) months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
Page  7
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement and Consulta
nts’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000 equivalent per contract, up to an  aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract governed by this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Page  8
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-2- 
TF026801 
 
Part B
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services for Part A of the Project under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex, estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms to be 
selected on a sole-source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  9
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
Page  10
H.E. Bassem I. Awadallah  
-2- 
TF026801 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
