Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4215 JO
Loan Agreement
(Community Infrastructure Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 27, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4215 JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1997, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part A and Part C (1)  of the Project will be carried out by Housing and 
Urban Development Corporation (HUDC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the HUDC part of the proceeds of 
the Loan as provided in this Agreement;  
(C)
Part B and Part C (2)  of the Project will be carried out by Cities and 
Villages Development Bank (CVDB) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the CVDB part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;  
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from bilateral and multilateral 
institutions (collectively, the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to about eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) (the 
Cofinancing Proceeds) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; 
and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the respective Project Agreements of even date herewith between the 
Bank and HUDC and between the Bank and CVDB;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Community Infrastructure Program” means the Borrower’s program to 
improve the living conditions of the poor through the provision of essential physical 
and social infrastructure services in areas where there is a concentration of poor 
households and where basic infrastructure services are below a basic minimum; 
(b)
"CVDB" means Cities and Villages Development Bank, established pursuant 
to Law No. 63 of 1985; 
(c)
“CVDB Policy Statement” means the statement of investment and lending 
policy approved by the Board of Directors of CVDB on May 9, 1985, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(d)
"CVDB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CVDB of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and CVDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement; 
(f)
“Dollars” and “$” mean United States Dollars; 
(g)
"HUDC" means Housing and Urban Development Corporation, established 
pursuant to Law No. 28 dated April 1992; 
Page  3
(h)
"HUDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and HUDC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
"HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and HUDC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement; 
(j)
“MMRAE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and 
Environment;
(k)
“MOP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning; 
(l)
“Operations Manual” means the manual, dated ____________ specifying the 
managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and environmental policies and 
procedures for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection 
of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank;
(m)
“PMUs” mean the Program Management Units: (i) established in the MOP for 
implementation of Part C (3) of the Project, and supervision of the implementation of 
the other Parts of the Project; (ii) established in HUDC for implementation of Parts A 
and C (1)  of the Project; and (iii) established in CVDB for implementation of Parts B 
and C (2)  of the Project, and referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and "PMU” means any of the aforementioned PMUs;
(n)
“Social Productivity Program” means the Borrower’s comprehensive program 
to address the conditions of the poor and the unemployed through: (i) improving the 
targeting and coverage of social assistance to the poor and unemployed; (ii) upgrading 
or providing essential physical and social infrastructure to the poor through the 
Community Infrastructure Program; and (iii) generating employment through the 
provision of skills training and microenterprise development; 
(o)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(p)
“Steering Committee” means the committee headed by the Minister of 
Planning, and consisting of the Mayor of Greater Amman, the Secretary General of the 
MOP, the Secretary General of MMRAE, the Director General of HUDC, the General Manager 
of CVDB, the Secretary General of the Water Authority of Jordan, the Secretary General 
of the Ministry of Social Development, and the Director General of the Department of 
Palestinian Affairs, established by Prime Ministerial decree for carrying out the 
Social Productivity Program; and
(q)
“Subproject” means any activity to improve physical or social 
infrastructure to be financed under Part A or Part B of the Project and approved in 
accordance with the procedures and the terms and conditions set forth in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (the HUDC Special Account for Parts A 
Page  4
and C (1) of the Project, the CVDB Special Account for Parts B and C (2) of the 
Project, and the MOP Special Account for Part C (3) of the Project) in its Central 
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum. 
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement 
shall: (i) carry out Part C (3) of the Project through MOP; (ii) with respect to Parts 
A and C (1) of the Project, cause HUDC to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the HUDC Project Agreement all the obligations of HUDC therein set forth; and (iii) 
with respect to Parts B and C (2) of the Project, cause CVDB to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the CVDB Project Agreement all the obligations of CVDB therein 
set forth, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project and necessary or appropriate to 
enable HUDC and CVDB to perform their respective obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
For the purposes of Parts A and C (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a), (2) 
(a) and (3) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available 
to HUDC under a Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HUDC (the HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
(c)
For the purposes of Part B and C (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b), (2) 
(b) and (3) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available 
to CVDB under a Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CVDB (the CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.  
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CVDB Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement and the HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement or the HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by HUDC and in respect of Part B of the Project shall be 
carried out by CVDB pursuant to Section 2.04 of the HUDC Project Agreement and the 
CVDB Project Agreement, respectively. 
Section 3.04. (a) For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and 
efficient execution of the Social Productivity Program, the Community Infrastructure 
Program, and the Project, the Borrower shall continue to maintain the Steering 
Committee.
(b)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of 
the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU within the MOP, with organization, 
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall require the PMU within MOP to:
(i)
ensure that Subprojects are appraised in accordance with the 
Operations Manual;
(ii)
ensure that land is acquired for the construction of new buildings 
under the 
Project;
Page  6
(iii)
ensure that easements and rights of way exist for all roads and 
pipelines to 
be constructed under Parts A (1) and B of the Project;
(iv)
ensure that only existing roads, footpaths and pipelines are 
upgraded and 
rehabilitated under Part A (2) of the Project, and 
that such roads, footpaths 
and pipelines are in accordance with 
planning layouts and circulation plans 
available at the Department of 
Palestinian Affairs;
(v)
ensure that Subprojects will not require any involuntary 
relocation;
(vi)
supervise the preparation of summary environmental assessments, 
satisfactory 
to the Bank, identifying any potential adverse environmental 
effects that 
might result from proposed Subprojects; and
(vii)
ensure that proposed Subprojects estimated to cost $700,000 or 
more are 
furnished to the Bank for its approval.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31st of each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 15th of each year, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
provided however, that the review to be conducted in 1999 shall be a mid-term review 
of the Project.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the MOP Special Account, the HUDC 
Special Account and the 
CVDB Special Account, for each fiscal year 
Page  7
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
CVDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CVDB 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CVDB will be able to perform its obligations under the CVDB Project Agreement. 
(c)
HUDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the HUDC 
Project Agreement. 
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HUDC will be able to perform its obligations under the HUDC Project Agreement. 
(e)
Law No. 63 of 1985 or Law No. 28 of 1992 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or financial condition of CVDB or HUDC or their ability to carry out the 
Project or the ability of CVDB or HUDC to perform any of their obligations under their 
respective Project Agreement.
(f)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CVDB or HUDC or for the 
suspension of their operations. 
(g)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by July 
31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
Page  8
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the Cofinancing Proceeds 
shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or 
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower underthis 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any events specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CVDB; and 
(b)
the HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and HUDC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the CVDB Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and CVDB, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CVDB in accordance 
with its terms; 
(b)
that the HUDC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and HUDC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HUDC in accordance 
with its terms; 
(c)
that the CVDB Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon CVDB in accordance with its terms; and 
(d)
that the HUDC Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon HUDC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P. O. Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministry of Planning
21319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Marwan Muasher 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Page  10
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for:
70%
(a) Subprojects under
   15,000,000
Part A of the Project
(b) Subprojects under
    5,000,000
Part B of the Project
(2)
Equipment and Vehicles:
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
(a) Under Parts A and
    1,000,000
local expenditures
C(1) of the Project
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
(b) Under Parts B and
    4,000,000
expenditures for
C(2) of the Project
other items pro-
cured locally
(c) Under Part C(3)
      100,000
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
and Training:
(a) Under Part C(1) of
      300,000
the Project
(b) Under Part C(2) of
      300,000
the Project
(c) Under Part C(3) of
    1,300,000
the Project
(4)
Unallocated
    3,000,000
TOTAL
   30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts not 
exceeding $150,000 equivalent; (b) for works under contracts not exceeding $700,000 
equivalent; (c) for the employment of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent; (d) for the employment of individual consultants under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (e) for training, under such terms and 
Page  11
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve community infrastructure 
facilities in squatter settlements, refugee camps, municipalities and villages; and 
(ii) to strengthen the institutional capacity of HUDC, CVDB, MMRAE, MOP, and local 
councils to deliver infrastructure services to the poor in an effective, efficient and 
targeted way. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Improvements in Squatter Settlements, Refugee 
Camps and Adjacent Areas 
1.
Provision of physical and social infrastructure in squatter settlements and 
adjacent areas in the central region of the Borrower’s territory, including Greater 
Amman, Zarqa, and Russeifa, including the upgrading and construction of drainage 
systems, water supply networks, sewage and solid waste disposal systems, roads, 
bridges, culverts, pedestrian crossings, street lighting, retaining walls, community 
and youth centers, schools and health facilities, and provision of equipment and 
vehicles therefor.  
2.
Provision of physical and social infrastructure in refugee camps in the central 
region of the Borrower’s territory, in Greater Amman, Jerash, Irbid, Zarqa, and Madaba 
including the upgrading and rehabilitation of drainage systems, water supply networks, 
sewage and solid waste disposal systems, roads, bridges, culverts, and construction of 
sewage networks, pedestrian crossings, street lighting, retaining walls, community and 
youth centers, schools and health facilities and provision of equipment and vehicles 
therefor.
3.
Construction of off-site sewage treatment and disposal facilities for refugee 
camps and surrounding neighborhoods. 
Part B:
Upgrading Municipal and Village Infrastructure 
Provision of physical and social infrastructure in low-income municipalities and 
villages, including the upgrading and construction of access roads, drainage systems, 
street lighting, water supply networks, sewage and solid waste disposal systems, 
bridges, culverts, pedestrian crossings, retaining walls, community and youth centers, 
schools and health facilities, and provision of equipment and vehicles therefor.
Part C:
Institutional Support 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of HUDC’s PMU to improve infrastructure 
facilities in squatter settlements, refugee camps and adjacent areas in an effective, 
efficient and targeted way through the provision of equipment, technical assistance 
and training.  
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of CVDB’s PMU to improve infrastructure 
facilities in low-income municipalities and villages in an effective, efficient and 
targeted way through the provision of equipment, technical assistance and training. 
3.
(a) Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOP’s PMU, as well as local 
governments and regional engineering offices of the MMRAE, in small scale development 
activities and for the delivery of infrastructure services to the poor through the 
provision of equipment, technical assistance and training; 
(b) design of pilot Subprojects for development of income-generating 
opportunities in economically distressed areas; and 
(c) carrying out poverty surveys, studies for project preparation, and studies 
to target beneficiaries.
Page  12
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal Date
 Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2002
      780,000 
August 15, 2002
      800,000 
February 15, 2003
      825,000 
August 15, 2003
      850,000 
February 15,2004
      875,000 
August 15, 2004
      900,000 
February 15, 2005
      930,000 
August 15, 2005
      955,000 
February 15, 2006
      985,000 
August 15, 2006
    1,015,000 
February 15, 2007
    1,045,000 
August 15, 2007
    1,075,000 
February 15, 2008
    1,110,000 
August 15, 2008
    1,145,000 
February 15, 2009
    1,175,000 
August 15, 2009
    1,210,000 
February 15, 2010
    1,250,000 
August 15, 2010
    1,285,000 
February 15, 2011
    1,325,000 
August 15, 2011
    1,365,000 
February 15, 2012
    1,405,000 
August 15, 2012
    1,450,000 
February 15, 2013
    1,490,000 
August 15, 2013
    1,535,000 
February 15, 2014
    1,580,000 
August 15, 2014
    1,640,000
_______________________
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
  except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
Page  13
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement 
Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to the first contract for works, each contract for works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $700,000 or more, and all contracts for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  14
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants under Parts C (1), C (2), C (3) (a), and C (3) (b) 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for twinning arrangements to CVDB for program management under Part C 
(2) of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for program implementation under Part C of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for the employment of consulting firms 
and each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than 
the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of the HUDC Special 
Account Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), and 3 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of the CVDB Special Account Categories 1 
(b), 2 (b) and 3 (b) set forth in the said table; and in the case of the MOP Special 
Account, Categories 2 (c) and 3 (c); 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  15
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to the HUDC Special 
Account an amount equivalent to $1,700,000; with respect to the CVDB Special Account 
an amount equivalent to $1,400,000; and with respect to the MOP Special Account an 
amount equivalent to $200,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocations shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $800,000 each in respect of the HUDC and CVDB 
Special Accounts until: (i) with respect to the HUDC Special Account, the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000; and (ii) with 
respect to the CVDB Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: \0c(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
Page  16
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
