Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4215 JO
HUDC Project Agreement
(Community Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated August 27, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4215 JO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (HUDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between The Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount of Dollars, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HUDC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary finance agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HUDC a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be made available to HUDC on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement; and
WHEREAS HUDC in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Management and Operations of HUDC
Section 2.01. HUDC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts 
A and C (1) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A and C (1) of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. HUDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HUDC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the 
execution of Parts A and C (1) of the Project, HUDC shall maintain its PMU, with 
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. HUDC shall implement Parts A and C (1) of the Project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual, and in particular, shall:
(i)
ensure that Subprojects are appraised in accordance with the 
Operations Manual;
(ii)
ensure that land is acquired for the construction of new buildings 
under the 
Project;
(iii)
ensure that easements and rights of way exist for all roads and 
pipelines to 
be constructed under Part A (1) of the Project;
(iv)
ensure that only existing roads and pipelines are upgraded and 
rehabilitated 
under Part A (2) of the Project, and that such roads 
and pipelines are in 
accordance with planning layouts and 
circulation plans available at the 
Department of Palestinian 
Affairs;
(v)
ensure that Subprojects will not require any involuntary 
relocation;
(vi)
prepare summary environmental assessments, satisfactory to the 
Bank, 
identifying any potential adverse 
environmental 
effects that might result from 
proposed Subprojects; 
(vii)
furnish to the Bank for its approval proposed Subprojects 
estimated to cost 
$700,000 or more; and
(viii) carry out Subprojects as appraised, including measures to screen 
and mitigate 
any adverse environmental effects.
Section 2.06. (a) HUDC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A and C(1) of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HUDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A and C (1) of the Project, the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HUDC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
Section 2.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, HUDC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and HUDC, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts A and C (1) of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
HUDC on said 
plan. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of HUDC 
Section 3.01. HUDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. HUDC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and engineering practices. 
Section 3.03. HUDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. HUDC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and C (1) of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HUDC shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of HUDC.
(b)
HUDC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Page  4
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HUDC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HUDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Housing and Urban Development Corporation:
P.O. Box 2110-11181
Amman 
Jordan
Cable address: 
Telex:
22024 JO
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HUDC or by 
HUDC on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its Director General, or by such other person or persons as HUDC shall designate in 
writing, and HUDC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Marwan Muasher
Authorized Representative
