Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I/L   2
Report No. 6564-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
April 8, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Brazilian Cruzado = US$0.0588
US$1.00 = 17.02 Cruzados
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



Vol omaL uS ONLY
List of Annexes
I   Comparative Education Indicators
II   The Vocational Training System: Principal Aeencies and
Organizational Efficiency
III   Financial Aspeczs of Training
IV   Vocational Training Policies and Institutional Issues
V   Labor Market Setting
VI   Reference'Documents and Data Available in the Project File
VII   Project Implementation Matrix
VIII   Training of the Vocational Training System Staff
IX   Summary of Technical Assistance, Professional Services and
Project Administration Requirements
X   Project Inputs by Agency and Component
XI   Institutional Development and the Proposed Project
XII   Annual Output from Project Institutions by Sectors
XIII   Project Enrollment and Outputs W.en Full- Operational in 1995
XTV   Summary of Project Costs
XV   Project Costs by Agency and Category
XVI   Financing of Project Costs
XIII   Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
XVIII   Status of Project Preparation
XIX   Project Management Structure and Responsibilities
XX   Project Targets and Implementation Schedule
XXI   Allocation of Loan Proceeds and Disbursement Schedule
XXII   Procurement Arrangements
XXIII   Bank's Experience in the Auditing and Financial Management of
the Project 14S2-BR.
r
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pake No.
I.   PROPOSED LOAN AND PROJECT SUM MRY   ..................                              1
II. THE TRAINING SECTOR IN BRAZIL:
DEVELOPMENT AND ISSUES  *................ .9.9....                               5
Emergence of the National Vocational
Training System...............................                             5
Vocational Training Neeods of the Economy   .......                           7
Government Strategy  ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .         7
Bank Strategy in the Soctor and
Experience with Past Lending                 .******......                 8
III.   THE PROTECT  ..................                                                     9
Project Origin  .......        *. **..     ..*    ..*........                 9
Project Objactives  ... * ..9999.9...                    9999.9               9
Project Description  .............. ........        .....     .              10
A. Strengthening of Central Policy Management
and Technical Support                ....................            10
B. Strengthening of Policy Formulation
and Program Implementation
Capacities of the Training Agencies.......                           12
C. Improving the Quality and Coverage of
Vocational Training Programs ..............                          13
Project Costs and Financing                 ...................              14
Status of Project Preparation                 ..................             15
Project Execution .... .............. . * * * * *.   * 9 * 9 9 99 9 0 9      16
Procurement  9999..................... l090 0*00"Ot                          18
Monitoring and Evaluation .....r...........                                  19
Accounting and Auditing  ............ ....... 19
Project Benefits  ...............                                            19
Risks  .....................................                                 20
IV.   RECOMM.ENDATIONS  99999999999         *.*       *.* *...................           21
This report Io based on the findiIngs of an Appreisol IilsoIon whIch vIaIted Iroal iduring
September-October 190.  Tho Appraisal Mission was compried of: Meroe./mes. Luis
Pisani (Senlor Vocational Training Speciellst), Mission Leadr; lRicerdo Moran
%Economist), Kathryn Johnston (Evaluation Specialist), Elsonor Schreiber (Institutional
Planner), Alvaro Roycs (Economist, Consultant), Ismeel Matallana (Architect, Conultnt),
V. Gallogher (Occupational Safety Specialist, Consultant) and Anla Artaza (OperNtlonal
Assistant).  Mr. Yvoo Tencalla (Deputy Chief, LCPED) and Ron* Corrdilne (Facillties
Planner) also assisted in project proparation. A contrlbution to the auditing and
accounting system of the Minittry of Labor was made by Mr. Angel Oonzolez-Malaxchevorrio
(Senior Financial Monaoment Specialist).



.     -
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJEC"
Glossary
CESA         Cruzado Expendit4res Special Account
CENAFOR      National Center for Personnel Training
CFMO         Federal Manpower Council
CNPq         National Council for Scientific and Technological Development
CNRH         National Center for Human Resources
EMATER       Brazilian Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
FESA         Foreign Exchange Expenditures Special Account
FUNDACENTRO  National Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene and
Medicine
IAPAS        Social Security Institute
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          Internetional Competitive Bidding
ID           Institutional Development
IREs         Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MIC          Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOL          Ministry of Labor
NVTS         National Vocational Iraining System
PRODEMO      National Program for Manpower Development
RAIS         Annual Report on Social Data
SENAI        National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship
SENAC        National Service for Comercial Apprenticeship
SENAR        National Service for Rural Apprenticeship
SECIN        Brazilian Executive 3ecretariat of Internal Control
SINE         National Employment System
SMO          Manpower Secretarial. of the MOL
SOEs         Statement of Exper4itures
STI          Secretariat for industrial Technology
STN          National Sc .etariat of the Treasury



BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROPOSED LOAN AhD PROJ3CT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amountt                US$74.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. The Bank loon would
be made available by the Borrower to the
beneficiaries as a grant.
Beneficiaries:        The Ministry of Labor and related training management
and implementing agencies included in the legal
framework of the National Vocational Training System
(NVTS): the Federal Manpower Counc'l (CYMO),
Manpower Secretariat (SMO), National Service for
Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI), National Service
for Comnercial Apprenticeship (SENAC), National
Service for Rural Training (SEIAR)l and the Natiortl
Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene and
Medicine (FUNDACENTRO).
Prolect Description:  The project would improve the responsiveness of
skills training to rap!.dly changing technologies by
strengthening the institutional capacity of the NVTS
and by improving and expanding training. The project
aims to:
(1) Reinforce the policy formulation. trainini
coordination and technical support capabilities of
the federal agencies. Measures are included to:
(a) restructure the CFMO and SMO to enable them to
focus on priority tasks; (b) promote improved design
of training policies with a view to improving cost-
effectiveness; (c) strengthen SMO support for the
NVTS in research management, information nanaSgaent
and training promotion; (d) strengthen the
participation of enterprises and other relevant
entities in the formulation of policies and i.rovision



- 2 -
of training; and (a) asees the potential for
increasing cost-recovery. Financing would be
provided to support related technical assistance
(18 SM local, 96 SM expatriate), local training
(3,193 persons), overseas f-llowships (246 persons),
and background studies and research.
(2) Improve the policy design and pro*ram
implementation capabilities of the trainina agencies.
Support is included for the agencies to:
(a) strengthen policies and medium-term training
strategies; (b) introduce procedures for periodic
review of organizational and staffing patterns and a
new legal structure for SINAR to enhance its
administrative and financial autonomy; and
(c) improve management support, in particular
information systems, planning and monitoring, and
research.  Financing would be included or related
technical assistance (1j9.5 SM local, 38.5 SM
expatriate), local staff training (1,078 persons),
fellowships (97 persons), and priority research and
studies.
(3) Improve the qutlity, relevance and coverage of
training proarms to respond-to evolvint needs in
industry. comerce, aariculture and occupational
safety. Support is included to: (a) enhance the
quality a.d relevance of training programs for a
minimum of 253,000 trainees annually (240,000 of whom
would be mainly low income rural workers and 13,000
industrial health and safety specialists); and
(b) expand the coverage of the agencies by 230,200
trainees annually (135,300 preservice and 94,900
inservice). Financing is included to: (i) implement
a comprehensive staff development program through
local training (9,739 persons over the life of the
project), and provide related technical assistance
(786.5 SM local and 150 SM expatriate), and overseas
fellowships (739 persons); (ii) undertake
occupational analyses in about 95 professions,
develop and introduce training modules, and upgrade
the quality of training materials; and
(iii) construct 29 new and remodel eight centers
(SENAC), refurbish/re-equip 79 training centers
(SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO), provide instructional
equipment for 26 mobile units (SENAI, SENAC), and
refurbish 182 mobile sets of training equipment
(including vehicles) for SENAR.
Risks:                 No s'gnificant risks are associated with the
implementation of the physical aspects of the SENAI,
SENAC and FUNDACENTRO components. Implementation
lags may be anticipated as a result of the conversion
of SENAR into a more autonomous organization. Also,



- 3 -
some risks are associated with: (i) overall project
management, as the transformation of the SMO into a
more effective managing agency will be occurring
simultaneously with its increased management
responsibilities under the project; and
(ii) achievement of institutional development
objectives, which are contingent upon sustained
financial and policy support from the Government.
ESTIMATED COST s/
U.S. Million
Proiect Component                     Local        Foreian        Total b/
Studies and Research                     8.2           0.3            8.4
Local Staff Training                    18.9           0.0           18.9
Fellowships Abroad                       1.9           7.4            9.3
Local Consultants                        4.6           0.0            4.6
Foreign Consultants                      0.0           2.3            2.3
Professional Services                    2.4           0.0            2.4
Civil Works                             15.9           1.8           17.7
Equipment                               24.1          15.9           40.1
Vehicles                                 7.4           0.0            7.4
Furniture                                2.9           1.0            3.9
Instructional Material                  12.1           6.2           18.3
Subprojects Administration               6.7           0.0            6.7
Project Administration                   0.8           0.0            0.8
Base Cost (Sept. 1986 Prices)          105.8          34.9          140.7
Physical Contingencies                 6.7           2.0            8.7
Price Contingencies                   13.1           3.9           17.0
Total Project Cost                     125.6          40.7          166.4
/ Noet of taxe and duties estimated at USS16 million.
Tocnls may not add up due to rounding.



- 4 -
FINANCING PLIAN P/
U.S. Million               2  of
Proiect Component            Local        Foreign        Total    Total
Government                      29.0           0.0          29.0     172
(SMO, SENAR, FUNDACENTRO)
SENAI-SENAC                     62.9           0.0          62.9     382
IBRD                            33.8          40.7          74.5     45Z
Total                       125.6          40.7         166.4    1002
2 of Totals                   752           252          1002
DISBURSEMKNTS */
(In US$ Million)
FY/      1989   1989   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995  1996
Annual           5.4   11.3   13.3    12.1    10.0       8.0    6..5      4.9    3.1
Cumulative       5.4   16.6   30.0    42.0    52.0    60.0    66.5    71.4   74.5
2 of total       7.2   22.3   40.2    56.4    69.8    80.6    89.2    95.8  100.0
pj TotalIs"ay not ad up doe to rounding.
RATE OF RETURN: No rate of return has been calculated, but significant
productivity gains are anticipated as a result of improved
quality and relevance of training.



II. THE TRAINING SECTOR IN BRAZIL: DEMVLOPMENT AND ISSUES
Emerience of the National Vocational Trainina System
2.1      During the first three qt%arters of thi') century, technical/
vocational education in Brasil developed in an unplanned manner under a
plethora of publicly and privately funded initiatives. Non-formal training
came to be offered mainly through semi-autonomous, publicly supported
agencies, including the National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship
(SENAI) and th6 National Service for Commercial Apprenticeship (SENAC),
which were created during the 1940u to service the non-formal training
needs of industry and comerce. Financed by a 12 payroll tax and
responsible to the National Confederations of Industry *A' Comorce,
respectively, SENAI and SENAC have retained considerable tinancial and
administrative independence from th  Government.  SENAI and SENAC are
managed in policy matters by the national and regional councils of the
Confederations of Industry an4 Commerce, respectively. In 1968, the
Nstional Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene and Medicine
(FUNDACENTRO) was established as the official training and research agency
for occupational safety, w4th financing from 12 of the basic work-accident
insurance premium paid by enterprises. In 1976, the National Service for
Rural Apprenticeship (SENAR) was vreated within the Ministry of Labor and
financed through general treasury revenues. By contrast, the major
vehicles for formal technician training at secondary and post-secondary
levels have been federally supported technical schools administered by the
Ministry of Education. Until the 1970s, general secondary education did
rot normally include vocationally-oriented curricula.
2.2      The Government sought to address inadequacies in the provIsion of
technical/vocational education by enacting a major Educational Reform in
1971 and introducing significant changes to non-formal vocarional training
throughout the 1970s. The Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare was divided
into two ministries, and the new Ministry of Labor became responsible for
overseeing labor relations, wages and employment, including non-formal
vocational training.  A Fiscal Incentives Lawl  was promulgated in 1975,
enabling enterprises crganizing their own training activities to
effectively reduce their tax burden. By the mid-1980s, approximately 3,350
enterprises provided training for some 2 million employees annually under
this arrangement. Some of this training is provided by SENAI and SENAC
under contract with firms. In 1976, in an effort to furthor enhance
training effectiveness by concentrating policy formation at the federal
level, the Government constituted the National Vocational Training System
(NVTS) as an umbrella organization for all vocational training programs in
the country and created the Federal Manpower Council (Conselho Federal de
Mao de Obra--CFMO) to oversee the system. The Manpower Secretariat (SMO)
within the Ministry of Labor was designated to act as the technical arm for
the CFMO.    All major non-formal training entities -eme under the
reorganized system. (Annex IT describes the structure of the Vocational
Training System and principal training agencies and Annex III discusses the
financing of the system.)
1/ Law 6297 of December ;5, 1975 authorizes employers to deduct up to
twice the amount they invest in training programs from their taxable
profits (income tax purposes), with a celing of 102 of such profits.



-6-
Z.3      Despite a decade of operation under the reorganized system,
institutional shortcomings and broader concerns for the efficiency of
skills traiining remain (see Annex IV for a discussion of institutional
issues). The CFMO and SMO do not execute effectively the policy
coordination and technical support functions embodied in their mandates.
The CFMO lacks adequate representation from private sector enterprises and
organized labor and concentrates primarily on administrative processizag for
the training system, while its principal functions of policy analysis and
formulation, guidance and training coordination receive inadequate
attention. The current organization and staffing of the SMO are
inadequate. Inefficiencies result from duplication cf functions and staff
between the CFMO and the SMO and from cumbersome administrative procedures,
notably those employed for approving training provided by private agencies
under the Fiscal Incentives Law. The SMO further lacks the capacity to
carry out priority functions: managing an integrated information system on
vocatic.nal training, overseeing regular policy-related studies and
evaluation activities, and setting criteria for planning and monitorinlg
training by the decentralized agencies.
2.4      Institutional constraints also exist in the main training agencies
(SENAI, SENAC, SENAR, FUNDACENTRO). The agencies need to improve
communication with labor and private sector intereste, systematize
interchange to enhance response capacity to changing needs, and undertake
periodic reviews of program or organizational effectiveness. In addition,
SENAC needs to decentralize some of its administrative functions, so as to
improve planning capacity. Agency information systems still focus
exclusively on internal training data; information on training costs and
financial resources (existing and potential) and on employment and labor
market trends (on safety and env'ronmental health concerns for FUNDACENTRO)
is neither systematically compiled nor analyze,'. Planning is generally
carried out only in the context of the yearly budgeting exercise. An
absence of CFMO/SMO guidelines and criteria for these policy and program
support functions contributes to the problem. SENAR is faced with an
additional structural constraint. Without the semi-autonomous status of
the other agencies, it lacks the administrative and financial flexibility
needed to strengthen its staff and expand its training programs so as to
achieve its objectives.
2.5      Despite the institutional shortcomings, responsibilities for
financing and conducting non-formal training appear to be logically and
economically apportioned between the various public agencies and between
the public and private sectors (see Annex II). The agencies, and
particularly SENAI and SENAC, also have cost recovery mechanisms that
reflect the wage earning potential of their trainees. Their training
programs, particularly in the case of SENAI, are well regarded by
employers, and few private providers currently compete with them in fields
where they are active. The reasons appear to differ according to the case.
Either, there is a limited market for the type of training offered (as in
the case of FUNDACENTRO), the clientele's ability to pay is low (mostly the
case with SENAR and, selectively, SENAC trainees), or long experience
between the training agency and the employers (end-users) has resulted in
confidence that the agency will provide the appropriate training.
Nonetheless, there is a need to assess the comparative effectiveness of



- 7 -
providing vocational training through the private sector and the
feasibility of increasing cost-recovery to develop appropriate strategias
and guidelines for the future. At present, the Fiscal Incentives Law
exists for enterprises wishing to undertake employee training
independently; however, only about 5% of eligible enterprises take
advantage of this scheme in part because of cumbersome administrative
procedures. The Government has acknowledged the need to streamline
processing of si ch training requests to enhance the attractiveness of
independent training options, in particular for small and medium size firms
which do not typically participate.
Vocational Training Needs of the Economy
2.6      The rapid industrialization of the Brazilian economy has received
additional impetus from Government-led growth strategies directed at
shifting into technologically advanced production modes and expanding
exports of manufactured goods. By 1979, Brazil had become a net exporter
of airplanes, electronics equipment, automobiles, farm machinery,
electrical equipment, military hardware, and the like, and 31.1% of all
manufactured exports were classified as "relatively sophisticated
technology." This success not withstanding, the pace at which emergl g
technologies can continue to be rapidly and effectively incorporated nto
economic production will depend upon the general skills level and
adaptability of the Brazilian labor force. (Annex V provides background on
the Brazilian labor market).
2.7      Requisite skills are already in critically short supply and
existing capacity for preparing the labor force is inadequate. Basic
public education has not yet been able to provide science and mathematics
education (the basis for the formation of technologically-based skills) of
sufficiently high standard, and efforts to introduce vocational subjects
into the curriculum have not been successful. The courses offered in the
technical schools and the major training agencies are of an acceptable
standard, but the agencies are currently overstretched and insufficiently
adaptable, lacking the capacity to respond quickly and efficiently to
shifting labor market demands.
2.8      Existing training programs, along with their physical facilities,
staff and training materials, were frequertly conceived and constructed to
meet demands in relatively simpler technologies and need to be upgraded.
Occupational health and safety training programs also need continuous
upgrading to respond to technological innovations in the workplace.
Accelerating demand for commercial and service courses (largely from
enterprising individuals in the urban non-formal sectors) should also be
addressed through expanded course offerings. Most importantly, improved
occupational anal sis techniques are needed to insure that course content
continues to be geared to the emerging skill requirements.
Government Strategy
2.9      While pressures placed on Brazilian instructional institutions to
produce a high caliber labor force are significantly greater than before,
neither the formal nor the non-formal education sector is currently able to
satisfy the demand. While the Government has yet to elucidate a



- 8 -
comprehensive policy for developing its educational resource base, a number
of strategies to improve basic and technical/vocational education and
training are being pursued. Quality and management of basic education, as
well as the distribution of educational opportunities, are being improved
through afforts to target urban and rural poor and certain regions and to
strengthen the financial resource base of the municipalities. Science and
mathematics education is being strengthened through increased involvement
by Brazilian universities in science curriculum development, teacher
training, local community development, and efforts to strengthen science
teaching directly at primary and secondary levels. Training coordination
and efficiency are being improved. General training policies will be
translated into rolling programs with specific targets, and planning and
management capacities will be strengthened. Agreements delineating
training responsibilities (e.g., between SENAI and the Ministry of
Education to apportion technician training) are being formulated. Private
enterprises are being encouraged to assume an appropriate level of
responsibility for training their workers. Quality and efficiency of
technical/vocational training programs are being enhanced through:
improvements to curriculum and teaching methods, physical plant, graduate
follow-up, cost recovery and cost/benefit analyses of training programs.
Finally, the capacity of the system to respond to evolving needs in
industry and agrinulture, including rapid technological change, is being
enhanced and worker safety is being improved through further education,
occupational analysis and assessment of potential hazards associated with
the introduction of new technologies.
Bank Strategy in the Sector and Experience with Past Lending
2.10     The Bank has been assisting the Government in trying to formulate
suitable strategies for sector development for a decade and a half. Two
projects currently support improvements to basic education -- the Northeast
Basic Education Project (Ln. 1867-BR), 9rd the Urban Basic Education
Project in the North and Centerwest (Ln. 2412-BR), and preparation of a
third project is underway. The Science and Technology Project
(Ln. 2489 -BR), inter alia is enhancing the role of Brazilian universities
in science curriculum development, providing preservice and inservice
teacher training in the sciences and organizing and coordinating community-
based extracurricular science activities under the aegis of the Program for
Science and Technology Development (PADCT).
2.11     The proposed project will be the fifth to support technical/
vocational skills formation, thus directly ameliorating manpower shortages
for key skills. Secondary and post-secondary technical education have been
supported through three projects. Loan 1067-BR assisted an ill-fated
educational reform which attempted to introduce and make compulsory
vocational education at certain levels. The Audit for this project (Report
No. 5554, dated March 29, 1985) notes that significant shifts in government
policy prevented the project from achieving the introduction of the
diversified curriculum. Loan 755-BR expanded the physical and
institutional capacities of agricultural and industrial technician training
schools under the Ministry of Education; and the currently active
Ln. 2366-BR is extending this process. The Audit for Ln. 755-BR (Report
No. 2802, dated January 9, 1980), while noting certain implementation
problems, considered the investment worthwhile and the outcomes -- in terms
of graduate employment -- successful.



-9-
2.12     The Vocational Training Project, Ln. 1452-BR, demonstrated the
effectiveness of providing non-formal skills training through semi-
autonomous training agencies (SINAI, SUMAC and FUNDACENTRO). This project
(a completion report is currently under preparation) has also provided
several implementation lessons concerningt the needs to establish SENAR as
an autonomous agency and to keep the scale of any SENAR component in any
future project within the scope of its management capabilities (paras. 2.4
and 3.4); the need to establish new project management arrangements
(para. 3.11); and the utility of establishing a Special Account
(pars. 3.14), local competitive bidding procedures (paras. 3.15 - 3.19) and
project accounting mechanisms (para. 3.22). These lessons have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project. Preliminary project
evaluations also indicate that, while Ln. 1452-BR significantly
strengthened the training capacities of the major agencies (SENAI, SENAC,
SENAR, and FUNDACENTRO), further support is needed both at the federal and
agency level in training policy management and training program
coordination. The proposed project comprehensively addresses these
deficiencies.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin
3.1      The Government requested assistance in the identification of a
second training project under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor
in November 1985. The project was identified and prepared during two Bank
missions to Brazil in January and May 1986. It was appraised in September
1986. Wv-king papers in English and Portuguese are available in the Bank's
project file (Annex VI).
ProJect Obiectives
3.2      The central objective of the project is to improve the
responsiveness of vocational training to rapidly changing technologies.
This objective will be pursued by strengthening the institutional capacity
of the NVTS, and by improving the overall effectiveness of training. The
project comprises three related aims:
(a) to reinforce the capabilities of the CFMO and the SMO to guide
policy formulation and provide supporting services for the NVTS;
(b) to improve the policy and program management and implementation
capacities of SENAI, SENAC, SENAR and FUNDACENTRO; and
(c) to enhance the quality, relevance and coverage of training
provided by the three training agencies and FUNDACENTRO.
Project financing to support these objectivbs will be allocated for staff
training, technical assistance and studies (41S of total); and for civil
works, furniture, equipment and instructional materials (59%).



- 10 -
Prolect Description2
A. Strengthening of Central Policy Manatement
and Technical Support (Annex XI)
3.3      This component will support measures designed to enhance the
policy guidance and cootdination functions of the CFM0 and the technical
support function of the SM0 The measures are included in institutional
development plans of action for each agency.
(1) CFMO. The project includes background studies and technical
assistance needed to design or implement the following
measures:
(a) an updated statement of policies for vocational
training, including medium-term parameters for
manpower training targets and a process for periodic
review of policies, was issued as a condition of
negotiations; guidelines delineating responsibilities
for training among public sector agencies and between
the public and private sectors with a view to avoiding
wasteful duplication and promoting cost effectiveness
will be developed by December 30,1988; and a support
strategy to encourage private 3ector involvement in
vocational training will be prepared. Related
technical assistance will be provided (24 SM foreign);
(b) representation from the private sector and organized
labor in the CFMO will be broadened by August 31,
1987;
(c) i#terchange between the CFMO and other agencies
concerned with manpower, employment and technical
education will be systematized; and
(d) administrative processing tasks and staff, as
appropriate, will be transferred from the CFMO to the
SM0 by September 30, 1987 to reduce redundancy; and
selected procedures, including procedures for use of
the Fiscal Incentives Law, will be streawlined by
August 31, 1987, to facilitate provision of training
by the private sector.
(2)  SMO.   The project includes background studies, staff training,
technical assistance, fellowships and salary financing
needed to design or implement the following measures:
2/ Details of project content by objective, strategy, component and
projected implementation schedule are presented in the Project
Implementation Matrix, Annox VII. Annexes VIII and IX summarize
training and technical assistance to be provided under the project for
each agency; and Annex X summarizes project inputs by agency and
component.



- 11 -
(a)  a reviaed SMO organization will be established by
August 31, 1987; and 10 additional professional staff
(total 960 SM) to be financed under the project vill
be appointed by October 30, 1987. The Govornment
provided assurance that these staff would be
maintained on a permanent basis;
(b) an inter-agency research committee under the Secretary
of the SMO will be established by September 30, 1987
to coordinate and approve research proposed by the
CFMO and the training agencies. Financing will be
provided for policy studies and research to be carried
out for the CFMO. Guidelines and approval criteria
for ensuring the priority of research proposals, and
several studies on the cost-effectiveness of training
and alternatives for the future financing of training,
including increased cost recovery and private sector
participation, will be developed under the project9
(c) a comprehensive information system for the NVTS and
systematic guidelines for medium-term planning and for
monitoring and evaluation of training will be
introduced, in cooperation with the training agencies.
Financing will be included for related training of 40
staff of the SMO, and the training agencies (25 to be
trained locally, 15 abroad), technical assistance (12
SM local and 36 SM foreign) and selected evaluations
to be carried out by the SMO;
(d) innovative training programs, methodologies, and
materials will be developed. Financing will be
provided for related training for 28 staff of the SMO
(18 to be trained locally, 10 abroad), for technical
assistance (6 SM local and 36 SM foreign) und for
development of experimental audiovisual materials,
including production equipment;
(e) dissemination of information on training opportunities
will be expanded. Financing will be provided for
seminars related to training promotion for staff of
the SffO (57), the employment placement branches of the
MOL, the training agencies, enterprises and labor
leaders (about 3,080 trainees to be trained locally,
221 abroad); and for development of reference
materials on training in Brazil, including supporting
equipment; and
(f) strengthening of the project management capabilities
of the SMO including hiring of about 6 qualified
professional staff.



- 12 -
B. Strenathening of Policy Formulation and Proaram
Implementation Capacities of the Training Atencies (Annex XI)
3.4      This component will assist SENAI, SFNAC, SENAR and FUNDACENTRO to
strengthen input into training policy development and execution, enhance
organizational and staffing effectiveness and improve the management of
training programs. The component will include the legal restructuring of
SEMAR to enhance its administrative and financial autonomy, including
adequate private sector representation and sources of funds. The Ministry
of Labor has drafted appropriate legislation to achieve the restructuring
which is expected to be submitted to Congress shortly. The Congressional
approval of the corresponding legislation will be a condition of
disbursement against the SENAR component. Action plans for institutional
development for SENAI, SENAC, SENAR and FUNDACENTRO have been prepared.
The component supports common activities required by each of the four
agencies tot
(1) prepare, by mid-1989, revised policies and strategies to
guide the planning and management of training programs over
the medium-term, which would be translated into rolling plans
ard programs by mid-1990; and expand labor and enterprise
representation on governing boards and committees. The
project will provide financirg for background reviews to
support work on policy and strategy development, based on the
broader policy statement to be issued by the CFMO;
(2) complete and introduce procedures for the periodic review of
organization and staffing patterns to identify requirements
for change and to form the basis for systematic staff
inventory, recruitment and career planning systems. The
project will provide financing for training of 378 staff
locally and 21 abroad and technical assistance (66.5 SM
local, 14.5 SM foreign) to assist with developing and
introducing these procedures; and
(3) improve maragement support capacity and processes. Revised
mau agement processes will be designed in cooperation with the
federal policy making bodies. Management information systems
will be expanded (e.g., to include data on cost-effectiveness
of training, demand for training end alternative arrangements
for financing training) and incorporated in the new SMO
system. Planning, monitoring and evaluation of training
programs will be improved and research capabilities will be
strengthened. Emphasis will be given to the analysis of
existing information and the application of findings to
policy development and program planning. Intra-agency
consultancies will be used to support improvements in
management processes. Financing will be provided for related
staff training (700 locally, 76 abroad), technical assistance
(93 SM local, 24 SM foreign), and for priority policy
studies, research and evaluations, which will be approved by
the interagency Research Comittee.



- 13 -
C. Improving the Quality and Coverage of
Vocational Training Programs (Annexes XII and XIII)
3.5      The bulk of project resources will be focussed directly on
improving the effectiveness of training provided through the NVTS in skills
critical for economic growth and development. Under this component,
support will be provided to: (i) implement a comprehenoive human resources
development program er,tailing training, or retraining, for 57X of technical
staff (mainly instructors and training administrators) of the training
agencies; (ii) assess training requirements, develop improved courses, and
increase the stock and upgrade the quality of instructional materials; and
(iii) improve (252,800 places) or expand (230,200 places) physical
facilities and *-raining equipment to provide training for about 483,000
workers annually (135,000 for job entry anid 348,000 for skills enhancement
or "upgrading"). The project provides financing as follows for each agency
to:
(1) SENAI
(a)  train 2,875 staff in vocational training methods, including
methodologies for design and delivery of vocational and
advanced technological training, and in training
administration (2,375 locally, 502 abroad). Related technical
assistance (24 SM local, 26 SM foreign) will also be
provided;
(b) execute occupational analyses in about 25 professions to
update training content; develop, test and introduce about
200 new training modules; adapt, translate and introduce
external training materials (manuals, slides, cassettes,
etc.), and provide materials. Related techniLal assistance
(20 SM local) will also be provided; and
(c)  prcvde instructional equipment for five new mobile traini-g
units and 33 existing training centers to provide training
for about 19,000 industrial workers (7,000 job entry and
12,000 upgrading).
(2) SENAC
(a) train 3,890 staff in vocational training methods, including
methodologies for commercial training in priority skills
areas and training administration (3,710 locally, 180
abroad). Related technical assistance comprises 396.5 SM
local and 39 SM foreign;
(b) execute occupational analyses in about 35 professions,
provide 225 new training modules, adapt available external
training materials and provide library materials. Related
technical assistance comprises 150 SM local; and



- 14 -
(c) upgrade 8 and construct 29 now training centers, and equip 45
training centers and 21 now mobile units to provide training
for about 203,000 commercial and service workers (128,000 job
entry and 75,000 upgrading).
(3) SENAR
(a) train 2,860 staff in rural/vocational training methods and
training administration (2,810 locally, 50 abroad).
Technical assistance comprises 15 SM local;
(b) execute occupational analyses in about 25 professions,
develop 175 new training modules, adapt available materials
and provide library materials. Related technical assistance
comprises 18 SM foreign; and
(c) refurbish 182 mobile sets of training equipment (including
vehicles) to upgrade about 248,000 rural workers.
(4) FUNDACENTRO
(a) train 950 staff in vocational training methods related to
worker safety and training administration (844 locally, 7
abroad). Related technical assistance comprises 96 SM local,
24 SM foreign;
(b) execute occupational analyses in about 10 professions,
develop 50 new training modules, adapt available materials
and provide library materials. Related technical assistance
comprises 105 SM local and 23 SM foreign; and
'c) provide instructional equipment for one training center to
upgrade about 13,000 workers and technicians in occupational
safety.
Proie t Costs and Financingt
3.6      Prolect Costs.  Total project cost is estimated at
US$166.4 million (equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of
US$40.7 million and a local cost component of USS125.6 million (or 252 and
75% of total cost, respectively).3 The baseline cost is about US$140.7
million. Annexes XIV and XV summarize costs by components, agency and
category of expenditure and include a detailed breakdown of the civil works
financed under the SENAC component. Physical contingencies of 102 for
studies, technical assistance and civil works and 5X for all other
expenditure categories result in an aggregate of 6.22 of baseline costs.
Aggregate price contingencies (10.2% of the sum of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies) are based on the Bank's projections of
3/ All cost estimates are stated in US$ equivalent amounts, in September
1986 prices, and net of taxes and duties (estimated at US$16.0
million). Baseline costs are based on unit prices (see Annex XV).



- 15 -
international inflation (in US$ terms) of 12% for 1986; 32 for 1987; 12 per
year for 1988, 1989, 1990; and 3.5% per year for 1991 and beyond. It is
assumed that periodic currency adjustments, measured on the basis of
purchasing power parity, will compersate for differences between projected
USS inflation and local inflation rates.
3.7      Financing Plan.  Project costs estimated at US$166.4 million total
(net of taxes and duties) would be financed by the Bank, the Government and
SENAI and SENAC. The proposed Bank loan of US$74.5 million would meet 452
of total project costs and would cover 1002 of foreign and 27% of local
costs, respectively. The Government would provide US$29.0 million to
finance the SMO, SENAR and FUNDACENTRO components (17% of project costs and
23% of local costs). The remaining 38% of project costs (and 502 of local
costs) would be financed by SENAI and SENAC with approximately US$62.9
million of their own resources (Annex XVI). The Government has provided
assurances that it would supply adequate counterpart funds for project
implementation in each annual budget. The Government would pass the loan
proceeds as a grant to SENAI and SENAC through special financing
arrangements with the Central Bank. Execution of such a financing
arrangement acceptable to the Bank would be a Condition of Effectiveness.
3.8      Incremental Recurrent Costs.  When in full operation in 1991, the
project is expected to generate additional annual operational outlays for
the agencies of about US$0.7M (SMO), US$2.7M (SENAI), US$3.5M (SENAC),
US$2.6M (SENAR), and US$0.6M (FUNDACENTRO). Expressed as a share of
projected total revenues for the training agencies in the same year these
costs would come to: 0.7% for SENAI, 2.7% for SENAC, 10.22 for
FUNDACENTRO, and 29.1% for SENAR.4 After termination of Bank
disbursements in 1996, a continuation of the major institutional
development activities introduced or enhanced by the project would
represent even smaller shares of projected revenues in all cases except
SENAR, where it would increase from 29.1% to 35.0% in keeping with the
agency's much expanded role and altered status. (Annex XVII details
incremental recurrent costs resulting from the project). Findings of
studies on training efficiency, financing and costs included under the
project will assist agencies in lowering overall recurrent costs.
Status of Prolect Preparation
3.9      The project follows the satisfactory implementation of
Ln. 1452-BR, which assisted the same agencies (see paras. 2.11 - 2.12).
Preparation of the project commenced in early 1986 and is well advanced.
At appraisal designs for facilities, sites for the civil works, equipment
lists and specifications, terms of reference for technical assistance and
details of staff training programs were on average about 75% ready (Annex
XVIII). The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the project by
providing funding in the 1987 budget to allow implementation to commence in
1987.
4/ No comparable percentage is calculated for the MOL because there is
little basis for projecting the Ministry's budget in that year.



- 16 -
Proiect Execution
3.10     Implementation Structure.  The Government has designated the
Manpower Secretariat of the Ministry of Labor (SMO) to manage the overall
coordination and implementation of the project, including oversight of the
inter-agency Research Committee and implementation of a mid-project review.
A Project Management Unit within the SMO will be constituted for this
purpose. The Management Unit, which will be financed under the project,
will comprise six full-time staff, including the project manager, an
institutional development specialist and a financial administrator. Each
train4ng agencv, through a Project Management Team, will be responsible for
implementing its own sub-project .5 Staff (new or existing) in the SMO and
in the training agencies will be designated to assume project management
responsibilities. SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO currently have sufficient
experienced staff, autonomy of action and access to comp'lementary financial
resources to carry out project management effectively. rhese staff will be
supplemented by consultants (e.g., financial administrators, institutional
development specialists and other specialists) as needed. The revised
legal structure for SENAR will provide that agency with the flexibility
needed to retain competent staff and consultants for project management. A
Project Manager has been appointed and the Project Consultative Comnittee,
comprised of CFMO members including the representatives of the training
agencies, will be set up within the Manpower Secretariat by September 30,
1987. The details on project management structure, responsibilities and
procedures are provided in Annex XIX. All the training agencies have
prepared prototype terms of reference for technical assistance and criteria
for award of fellowships, which have been reviewed by the Bank. The SMO
Management Unit and the Project Management Teams would be constituted prior
to loan effectiveness.
3.11     Implementation Procedures.  Each project agency will be directly
responsible for implementing and monitoring the relevant subproject
components. For all subcomponents, related procedures have been reviewed
by the Bank and are appropriate. Criteria and guidelin5. for approving
research and studies were reviewed at Negotiations. In addition, the SMO
Management Unit will be responsible for carrying out a mid-project review
during 1991. By that time most institutional measures included under the
project should be substantially completed. The Bank will share supervision
responsibilities with the participating agencies through a series of annual
reviews. The Government agreed to complete and report on these annual
reviews and on a mid-project review to be carried out by June 30, 1991.
The mid-project review would focus on vocational training policies, policy
implementation and progress towards institutional development objectives,
in particular on progress towards the:
(a) development of CFMO and SMO capabilities to coordinate and support
vocational training, including the issuance of national guidelines
delineating responsibilities for training;
5/ Despite its satisfactory performance in managing the previous project
(Ln. 1452-BR), the Government decided to dissolve the project unit
(PRODEMO) in favor of greater decentralization of management
responsibility.



- 17 -
(b)  execution by the SO and each training agency of the respective
action plan;
(c) translation by all NTVS agencies of studies' recomendations on
the future financing and administration of skills training into
implementable programs;
(d) assessment of feasibility of expanding SENAI and SENAC facilities
and programs into new technological areas; and
(e) strengthening of SENAR's capacity to develop and expand its
programs in its new legal structure.
3.12     Implementation Schedule.  The project is expected to be
implemented over a period of eight years from June 1987 to June 1995
(Annex XX). The major part of the institutional changes pursued by thG
project are expected to be accomplished during the first four years of the
project implementation period. The project preparation group in the MOL
has prepared a general implementation schedule for the life of the project
and a detailed implementation schedule for the project's first year. The
Project Consultative Committee would review the general implementation
schedule on an annual basis (June/July each year) in order to identify
implementation problems, delays and cost overruns and to permit
rescheduling of activities. The SMO Management Unit and the Project
Management Teams would update and review these implementation schedules
annually in line with expenditures proposed for the following year, and
send the revised schedule to the Bank for its comments by the end of August
each year during project implementation. Project reporting has been
scheduled to permit overlap with the preparation of the Goverreuent's annual
budget. Supervision missions will be scheduled to monitor project
implementation and facilitate the budgetary process.
3.13     Disbursements.  The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed over a
period of nine years (1987-96) (Annex XXI) in the following categories:
(i) Civil Works -- 192; (ii) Equipment, Instructional Materials and
Furniture -- 1002 of foreign and 342 of local expenditures;
(iii) Professional and Consultants' Services -- 100% of foreign
consultants' and professional services and 40% of local cottsultants'
services; (iv) Salaries of Professional Staff--100% of local expenditures;
and (v) Studies, Research, Training and Fellowships -- 1002 of foreign and
33% of local expenditures. For local currency contracts valued at
US$200,000 equivalent or lens, and foreign currency contracts valued at
less than US$50,000 equivalent, disbursements would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for such expenditures
would be correlated with the relevant withdrawal application and retained
by the executing agencies for periodic review by the Bank and by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Applications for disbursement would be prepared
and submitted directly to the Central Bank by MOL. Procedures would be
established with SENAI and SENAC to ensure quick reimbursement from the
local currency special account (CESA) and streamline procedures to ensure
prompt psyment of foreign exchange expenditure to be finance through the
foreign exchange expenditures special account (FESA).  Retroactive
financing up to a total of US$4.0 million will be provided for expenditures
made after April 1, 1987 but before the date of Loan signature.



- 18 -
3.14     Special Account.  In order to expedite disbursements, a crusado
expenditure special account (CESA) would be established with the loan funds
in the Ceatral Bank with an initial deposit of up to US$2.7 million and
another account to cover minor foreign expenditures (FESA) would be
maintained abroad in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank. FESA would
be administered by MOL and would have an initial deposit of US$300,000.
Replenishment of these special accounts would be made at agreed intervals.
Procurement
3.15     Annex XXII slmmarizes proposed procurement arrangements, th6
limits on the type of procurement applied and prior review threebolds for
IBRD financed items. With the thresholds established for ICB, conitracts
awarded through ICB would account for about 38.02 of the cost of the Bank
financed items. The limits for prior review of bidding documentation by
the Bank would result in a coverage of about 702 of the total estimated
value of civil works contracts and 802 of goods contracts. Interested
foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in any bids.
3.16     Civil Works.  Because of dispersed locations and the phasing of
construction, civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), following the procedures used successfully in
Loan 1452-BR, and which are acceptable to the Bank.
3.17     Furniture.  Furniture contracts would also be awarded on the basis
of LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank because of (a) the
competitiveness of local industry in producing the kinds of goods needed;
and (b) the impracticality of grouping items into packages large enough to
be suitable for ICB in view of the simplicity of the furniture needs, the
number of districts involved and the exigencies in phasing project
execution.
3.18     Equipment and Instructional materials.  For packages of US$400,000
equivalent or more, equipment and instructional materials contracts would
be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts below US$400,000 equivalent would be awarded on the
basis of LCB in accordance with Government procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and up to a maximum aggregate limit of
US$20,760,000 equivalent (representing about 402 of the total estimated
procurement value of equipment and instructional materials). In addition,
miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped into packages exceeding US$8,100
eqvivalent would be procured from known suppliers with a minimum of three
price quotations, and up to a maximum aggregate limit of US$6,070,000
equivalent. Brazilian legislation has prohibited the importation of
vehicles and microcomputers, and therefore these items have been declared
reserved procurement and have not been included in the project cost for
purposes of calculating the amount of the Bank Loan. This does not affect
the economic justification of the project, as the supply of these items
conforms with adequate standards of economy and efficiency. For equipment
containing electronic data processing parts included in the SENAI
component, authorization from the Special Informatics Secretariat to
procure such equipment under ICB has been obtained.



- 19 -
3.19     Consultants.  All consultants services would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.20     Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the
responsibility of the SMO Management Unit. Specific tasks would include:
(i) preparing semiannual progrese reports covering achievement of
quantitative and qualitative objectives, and measuring implementation
progress against the monitoring indicators (showi  in the Implementation
Matrix, Annex VIT); (ii) undertaking the mid-project review (see
para. 3.12); and (iii) preparing a project completion report which would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the Closing Date of
the Bank Loan. Guidelines for project monitoring were developed with the
Government durit,g Appraisal.  The Government would keep the Bank informed
of progress being made in the attainment of project objectives, including
those regarding major policies and plans in the area of training, and
furnish such information to the Bank annually.
3.21     The project also supports specific measures to strengthen the
monitoring and evaluation of training programs themselves (see paras. 3.4
and 3.6 and the Action Plans of the training agencies detailed in
Annex XI). The Studies and Evaluation Division of the SMO, assisted by the
agencies, would be in charge of assessing the impacts of the efficiency and
quality improvement measures developed under the project.
Accounting and Auditing
3.22     Auditing and accounting and project reporting under Loan 1452-BR
were not totally satisfactory. Based on this experience, appropriate
measures are included in the proposed project to: (i) ensure that all
accounts, financial statements, and certified SOEs for items financed under
the proposed project, as well as the Special Account, would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfActory to the Bank (Annex XXIII);
and (ii) institute an accounting system and administrative procedures
satisfactory to the Bank in the SMO and the training agencies. The
auditcr's repott would be sent to the Bank no later than six months after
the close of each Fiscal Year.
Prolect Benefits
3.23     Institutional Development and Strengthened Policy Formulation and
Management. The project will help the NVTS improve the responsiveness of
the training to demand through: improved coordination and interchange with
key client groups among enterprises and labor; and the elaboration of
detailed national and agency-level training policies, targets and
strategies, coupled with their periodic review and revision. By
reinforcing the institutional structures and processes of the NVTS and by
laying the foundation for continued adjustment to changing needs, the
project will help to sustain the improvements in policy management. In
particular, structural imFrovements to the SMO will improve the quality of
technical support provided to the training agencies. The comprehensive



- 20 -
information, monitoring and evaluation systema, together with improvements
in research, will improve the basis fo; planing of training. The revised
legal structure for SENAR will support significant development of the
organization and its training programs in accordance with policies for
employment creation.
3.24     Quality and Relevance.  The project will help to standardize tsie
quality of training programs by upgrading about 11,000 (nearly 602 of
total) technical and administrative personnel and the quality of
instruction. While the content of basic course offerings is adequate for
the present time, continuing relevance and the rapid response capacity
necessary to update program content over the long term will be ensured
through occupational analyses, modernizing of training equipment and
workshops, feedback through graduate follow-up and enhanced participation
by employers and workers in the design of vocational training strategies.
In ali, some 250,000 trainees will benefit directly from improvements in
the quality of training, and about 1.5 million trainees will benefit
indirectly.
3.25     Expected Social Impact of the Proiect.  The Brazilian poor may be
characterized as individuals with annual Incomes in 1986, equivalent to
US$430 or less (in rural areas) and US$540 or les (in urban areas). On
this basis, very rough estimates of the poverty impact of the project
suggest that between 35 percent to 55 percent of total project costs will
fund activities benefitting poor individuals.6 About 102 to 202 of total
project costs will fund activities benefitting poor individuals in rural
areas. A majority of project beneficiaries are likely to be men; however,
a significant proportion (a quarter to a third) of additional enrollments
will be women. The vast majority of these women beneficiaries will be
SENAC trainees.
Risks
3.26     Institutional development activities are by nature gradual and
success is greatest where measures to be taken are clearly defined,
incremental and well supported. Institutional development objectives and
components under the proposed project have been designed with this in mind.
Despite these arrangements, specific risks exist in respect of:
(i) objectives for improving the technical support capacity of the SMO, and
(ii) the overall capabilities of SENAR. A related risk is that actual
project implementation will also suffer as a result of weaknesses in the
SMO's capacity to coordinate project managemsnt. Several measures have
been incorporated to reduce these risks. Interdependence of agencies
(except insofar as coordination of training is concerned) has been kept to
a minimum. The size and scope of the SENAR component has been kept
purposely small and tentative pending the substantial recasting of its
administracive and financial arrangements.   The capacity of SMO will be
immediately enhanced chrough recruitment of additional full-time staff.
Overall, the upgrading of capabilities of existing staff, the provision of
new staff, consultants, and Action Pla s and a high level cof cooperation
anticipated from the training agencies ( nd reinforced through suce
6/ This estimate ignores benefits accruing through any project-related
additional growth of GDP.



- 21 -
mechanisms as the Inter-agency Research Committee) should reduce the risks
associated with the ID components. Finally, a carefully defined mid-
project review, scheduled to take place when most institutional
improvements should have been substantially introduced, will reveal
unanticipated weaknesses to the project design and allow for adjustments.
IV. RECOffMENDATIONS
4.1      Prior to effectiveness the Government wouldt
(a) establish financial arrangements acceptable to the Bank among the
Ministry of Labor, the Contral lank, and SENAI/SEKMC that would
provide, interalia, for the transfer of loan proceeds to SENAI and
SENAC on a grant basis, for the provision of adequate counterpart
funds for SENAI and SENAC (para. 3.7), and for quick reimbursement
to SENA1 and SENAC of eligible expenditures under the project
(para. 3.13).
(b) develop and implement an accounting system and administrative
procedures based on the operational characteristics of the
project, for both the SMO and the agencies, as well as appoint an
auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22); and
(c) establish and staff: (i) a Project Management Unit in the
Manpower Secre...ariat to coordinate project manr nnent and
implement that portion of the project corresponding to the
CFMO/SMO components; and (ii) Project Management Teams within each
relevant training agency under the project (para. 3.10).
4.2      Congressional approval of the legislation changing SENAR's legal
status would be a Condition of Disbursement sgainst thz SENAR component
(pars. 3.4).
4.3      The Government agreed to:
(a) establish by September 30, 1987 an interagency Research Committee
chaired by SMO'a secretary and comprised of represertatives of
each of the training agencies and selected other agencies; and
establish guidelines satisfactory to the Bank for the approval of
research and studies, including terms of reference for a series of
studies on alternatives for financing vocational training and
increasing cost recovery and private sector participation
(para. 3.3);
(b) maintain the new staff of the SMO on a permanent basis
(para. 3.3);
(c)  est blish guidelines delineating training responsibilities by
December 30, 1988; broaden private sector representation on the
CFMO by August 31, 1987; establish the revised SMO structure by



- 22 -
September 30, 1987 and appoint 10 additional staff by October 31,
1987; and prepare revised policies and implementation strategies
for the training agencies by June 30, 1989 and rolling plans by
June 30, 1990 (paras. 3.3 and 3.4);
(d) provide adequate counterpart funds for project implementation in
each annual budget (para. 3.7);
(e)  establish by September 30, 1987 the Project Consultative Committee
(para. 3.10); and
(f) implement annual reviews and a mid-project review, to be completed
and submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1991, which would assess the
progress made on all project activities, giving priority to policy
and institutional achievements and particularly to development of
the following capabilities of: (i) CFMO and SMO to manage and
coordinate and support the national vocational training system,
including the issuance of clear guidelines for delineating the
training responsibilities of the different institutions involved
in the system; (ii) SMO and *ach Training Agency to execute action
plans; (iii) the entire national vocational training system to
translate study recommendations on the future financing and
administration of skills training into implementable programs;
(iv) SENAI and SENAC to expand facilities and programs into new
areas of rapidly changing technology; and (v) SENAR to function in
its new administrative form (para. 3.11).
4.4      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank Loan to the Government of Brazil of
US$74.5 million equivalent, with a term of 15 years, including a grace
period of 3 years.



At's      oil, t    v,II    IL
qtt                                                                                                                         VU42NMA
xq6Q1         to                           49,6                           t   6,1        It             AVROM
VI         IV           69          is 10 I        oc           I 6       V6           so     of   IE n            Aql'N         Aqv-v        0161      I'l      I A    'la    4"3xlu
AOV'tl        it         bt            41           V16           IC          Os         tb          of      61   SI   (6           EIVI           91(      cm' I   9,91    Ou                     nu
Oi lu        9 I        It            gi          JI'L           as          it         tv          "       ol   A I It            ?'VI         at'i       ott'i   O's         6i            avmww
Aquillk.?    A%i I      A40K           U"             I'll       &461         -         A46 6         qtt     t I  eCl  *It                     AMOIS 't    qtKt, I  qu'l        Id               vwwd
got    sqot             -               -          Id(           ti   X41ge            4"   -   - -                  40 I    .0:,  4"'., q:.I   VI                             V"Wmia
I         99                          916                      El         16          to      6 I   "     tv        folil           A ,      ON          34      Os              coim
uolv                    I I           66           Ell           ot          06         06          "       w     It   It          tlit           ilt      oll'i    I's        Os             "Tow
AOU'g                  "It            oft          walti        Aqlt         DK       ABOO           of   obt  841  pit           AqC VI        iqg It      off       O's       Id            wwom
0911)                  RV            oil           0161          1 9         09         K          4c;      9     6     It      A06'i           Si's       Kg       qolt       of                Ul"
Aqw-C                  "16i            -               -         AlU          -    A,06    -   -  -                                 0-tj   aqj:j                                                  VWAUD
A091i       Aq6 I    Asti 1            69                                            '2109                                                                  U,
.%U6, i                                                                                                                                                       010 I   :4,        :11          Twuuvw
A.,lit                                                                   4005            it     A                    Aqt:tt         A411        099       t'V       I A       nnA7"  n
U0161        ol         A If          IV           9111          K                      601          to     of   it   it             of         dolt       011:11  qV,6        Go
tiuloi       Cc         ul            *6           tlt           66          It                    4"       81    it "                            Olt      Ko        t's       of     I-r"  or)lnlwo
t I   "qtt              06             -         dot            16   XI t              GE  -    -    -               40:111,        a's   -            $14   II                     "M
it        ot            It            916          is          id         16          Os      cc   ic "              I,U            1.1     qoI#:l  41:9         00          VDIN VLM
at         it                         910          it          N                     410    a       at   6c          olis           I-C     401:1  qi Os         n             vioww
601   0416S                              -         Alot                  mot I    -   -  --                           4011    WE   G" 1  6101  91                                    ritic
&0        Ads I          olv           qg-t        ANCt                   Asti           91     it  -        I S        9I            *It       oil I   iltit   6i                  iirm
Ast          -               -          Au                     oi            ;O  -   - -                  09 'K    Arl't   066   916   of                              VlArM
AO&        109          N"            86,61        Ads          866        gool        q66   991  *It  wCV           wII:r       '6016.1       *sol      ro        bi            80"M
0                       A 6                        ot          II                    qco      I I   K     x           1161          i's       atilt   ro         61              oomrm
to                        d            ts         611        406   gel  Bit  I0              6101          All       offlt   rLz
gnmvv .5 10"aw WSIAM
lot                                    O's(       A496                      ti           I   It  mot  OK            bgltt                               *,I       k                 am
It        Ns I          to          qo-il          St                    sit         qgi   -       -     -          q0:91          qQ-V       06Z      V.(       Ii        mm    vmls
It       so)           061           clot                      04         ts           a     qbl  46t  qot           0 tz          qo-i      OK        V'$                       7woom
0(         CZ           to            6 161        ft           Di        (6           99     Cl  -      -           olot          At'i     q"i       qo,(6      to              TIMMIN
":u          st         9             Is           Q'i 9         OL          01         St          VI    at   it   ot             rit            Ill      OK        I's                         Usis
it 0         St         6            DE            WISE                      0%         it         411    St   tv   it             6101           I.,     qat       qo'l       Id          WinLlam
Ae"'O           11         I                          1161         tv          at         at           of     If   11 K             milit          wr,V      4*1    qo-i          Ill                II"
obli         oz         It            ti           clot          it          cc         as          of      99   99   It           9161           9.0      at;       611       of             winell
fell         oc       =99             61           0169          It          64         it        A"t       6     "     Is         Ill'#          t'i      oti      qi -4,     to         U11111) MAl
As         of           so        fto,"            K           ot          Pt          as   on   Wm   861             -           dlil,v    dw          C16      61               mule
It   Xq9(             -               -         w:            -       Asqii          -    -   - -                   q;-61         'M.,   OP            Clil   It                   "111,10
Li     ",411            000            Ift       411          so        64"          401   so    961   It           It`1          MPC It      Ott       910       Li              vimri
*Puv'Z   A40 I    -                    -                         40#          -          -           -   -  --                      P'#    Aqi-c  actli  ro   A I                                  ANNO
agwIg   Aqct    -                       lx                       Aq"          -          -           -   -  --                     Asilit   AMQ16   Ott   611   Id                                 Om=
jor-1)         It      AXE                                        14         -          ac            61   -      -     -          %I-lg       dmvll        091       vlt       it                 am
houl 'v                                                           wit                                                              '91.01        "N.t         all       clt      6i                M.,
cill         VI         CZ                                       06         469         0           09      91   It    El           -           dilt      qolv       ulol                    $Bosom
Colo         OZ         t             VI                         41          $I         I 1         6       of   61   I t          iltz         A1.z      401 t      619                      "INM
A(IO'l        c I         I I          Lq           olvi                      (it        IV         411    I       I 9 Et           0161          mglv     401i      Volt       61                nima
V211" 00&LM
oflu         El         Si            6b           clot          Al          is         ob        qv ti     9     I I I 9          flol           I's     q&Oi      qi'i
0611         99         VI            61                                     Os         16        4"        at   cc                             d%:I      tM        4i:s       ot               III!=
uolt         U          VI            UV           all&          QC          It         ti        qt,       GI   -                 tlys           A A     qoit      qo 6c      IN                Nlys
otlu         El         I             11            -            ti          It        v"          Go      qot  411  qcz          &I -91                  qllK      q11:,11    ft               pop
oflo                    c            III           olif          It          is        qn         qsi       ot   GI   It           1,41           ;76      Olt       9,    Os                V~       .L
0011                    6z            06           9111          cc          96         16        469       5 I   M     1 6        lvr         qo't       qm        qi'c       El           emirm
V:I          it          vo       gel          tt      ...   AA "               -             Olt               qz -61    010                m
uu: I"      I'll        sl,          qo           qo            qu          4"         491,       qwl      qt   9"   qft            sloi          611                  4       is              viiwm
St                                       601  Ott  cvt           W9,91          a's       oii' I   9,0        61          trrolun
ot 10        9 1        6             6            clot                      ut         It        446       I I   ol   I I         t'll           tlt     qott      q&-t       it               voom
0011         Is         06            act          elti          it          ad         SO        4"        A     K                Olit           Cli,    491111       I I     to           salaam
ullo                                                             69          ct         n                         91               "II            9`1     qKs       II::       I I              uwm
64101't         cl         VI           K             WIP         qss           91      sq"         q:       161,   It      I        01,1          MDIV       Kt        s         A L
ot I I       I I        I I                        916           n           I 9       foil       qc,       St   gt K              6191           '.6     q"lp    40.1         is              "*M
-           99         of           6t            "VI           St          96         til       q"        t I   ol   to         41,09        golf       qott      q,'Il      to                vam
ttlu                    VI           916           [161          tt         OK          it         Is       a     St   St          1-11         dk:g      *"I       j1:C(      to            %tdotw
0910         6 I        01                         olit                      of         tt         01      ...   St   gi           6111           0 c       S"       v 0       II             iamiris
0911)                   K             69            -                                   ol         6t       tt   61   60           0.11         .1:1        iw      41:0                       KINM
01.1                   id             9 I          91"           Lt          St        ust                  it   a      (v         0161        40  I        itt      tV        I I             id
I        of            09           olot          cc          II         Got                 It   99    I 9         0199           019     qou       qoll       to
wmv
AbAK'OC       601         0I            001           6161        get           001      am         4"        01   ot   it            I'll          016       Kilti  vI           69
*&",St          6 I        tv           001           9111         flt         001        got       q"        W     It    It          I'( I        all.1     q190,O  qt't                   owrm          M
viltl        Et         to                         ["I           81           6         'M       6#4        it   "      ot          I,$           6 i      . 06'.01  0"I    6i            seprasloatia
Vol-it   -                            owl            -          -            001   on    4"   -  -  -                              9616            oll  sull r1o  4i    VIA awmm
Noru          91                                                  it          so,       Oct        q"      tag         45K        484,01          III,      409'6  ji,11         to              M    go
us 101       f I        c A                                      I I         001       scat        -                   -           9-lpt         VC.9       oil's  go'll                     wilm
%NFAM
(91)     (c 1)        (91)                        01)          (6)          41)        (1)        (9)            (s)             I0              (ti         ti)       (1)
41)   lama    (1)                   (1)           M/&"  NKIM                (3)         (9)  (9161)            (2)           FAILlasm    Ouvom   (iwl) (4161)
OIAWN         Nu    Oliva  &V"Nwso                      P         cm         uld"   claws   (1)   10 M IM   SEMONM    tAL OIDAN   (M) '11111111 MU
,T=93 badalwal.1 It  a a amiw amigriod "mm    "we ITMWI   uvv ML ULMMV Wu= INA" dw "am   WAIND law
io A W-M I ""mm$ NM UVII  AVOMM  &MINI  amisa am" Anowlt mossull  aiiwaw W
am &M                    M M"                     &%M  asg mumom a
.........
996T 'i isqueosa
S,X02TOTPUI UOTMnP3 OAT3w4wdw:)
Z ;0                                                                103rold moilygdol SqjjX3
I X3NNV                                                                            Uzy'da
- EZ -



-24-                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
00 VW.ATIW   46*NM    I A WA?I                         no6                       amlAo 14922Aslow
aw   m    AS PgkCMW        CSPMI"U$ 424.A9,  PI,  44*                kI          IA        Wm         IA       W        loms     ecm         "mg
~41I M  CPTAPMW W                A   O    A   4, A"            011111      o    i.   CO          agm        awAi0 50541.xlL.    ' A                                MWL
Tom   ILL. (M  ocom        o   w.ui pnt              11    f       1       af)    VL                        A     te        ara v a lt                e           A
(144)  191)    fNIAtt    SZI UCR'V   hboa?2                                    egegay,m) I'   .          WCPI4            (I             2)     tAm 
C  tigeattim   SSCMSSUV  551.?      SAYS 995                SUIt~~~~(1  (10 fM P it)US I4IO.1
IA  "a  PatrAic05                                            S NIU             .IWAYPiut9299                     taiS       55*1         SN'15          ICIAI4414    219
1541tA         MIIi. so,4)        NUCYW .12  IC4.IU?              PI50m               I       577       126          93         A  P3305W?  551044          1411         955         eat
PAM   A.G .  43     1. PVII    I0t     1.7           74.0         1*    An1   22       77         7)         742          Ila         .0            II            114        77I        I.MM
PNILUIAPM            Al    110.10      ofift    2.W            15.0         711   M4             ?lb        44         Al          I7 I        1.0           74           I2           1   24     1.27
S(SAFM               $ 93    )4    4   Al0       1.7'          2.7.         14    40   26       '4          A5         43         I4)           1A9 IS.I SO                                       4qnn
P99* 5.0.            43       1.71w     020      1.46p         I4.2         AC 1   '    22        -         AC         2) II                  11.0            II            119        1 2$       I. in
PWII.2PPI            a 75    &4*4      4904      2.0           I4.)         It    1 4    -       7)0       s01         o4         u2 I.16                     54            46         14 a      11no
1555105               0     42.4b  4,3           2.70           0.749       14    A?   to        5e         AV         53          If          *.a                          11         22         R.421
121.UA   ?1..        4     65.         440       A.9F          79.9"        Al    14    20       I          760        SC          27         27.                          27)     0              2 . iro
POACIE*I             as     53.3lb       Ao      2.10          7.0.         MI    I0   20        22.        A)          1.         St          l.A            'A-           II          1         7.41
Ar~~tI          S        1.2       A        I.4          JI. ))              1-*   I-       IC    2   )I          -6          )l         --              --            A ---.
1551I               77        . 45.0   110      2.93          14.66        Iy 2   -- -           -4        19b        -           Al          - Oh.)                       206        -.7.      l?.2219
t PAL                41      11. I       -       S.-           144*1.0       *...   --- ..0. ...1in                                                           *...         22         216         1.7WV
1111141              *39    12.10      104       2.0la          7.011       1l20aA22                         m         Al          IC          n.o, 1                                   1
1NWtIY3n             Oil      10  .  48           1. lw         3.7 Aas?                 I                   1i ~    94            37          -A                           1          224'     7I12
AiASIA               Al      II. )    1.106       2.93         21.2         94'   20   21'        m21       I10        41I         11           1.0 I                       S 2A       la         7.70'
SCYP?m               52     A.14       ASAC                    I A6 .4      I'a W  I-  - 20      ---        71'        18          lO          44              1            7           S I -.777
GUIScI          IA      9.)~~~6   4.240     2.4'r         71.9         17   30   22                   A I  S  ip2S                        A.3 J.                      7504         7.      I'57
251                          1.        .. )7                    A.?4                                      I0i          --         I7 I41                                              10         *  72f
15*0            79~~~~~4  12.A   ,   2.710  A."           A2.10               -     ..      MN        0147        -1          21        *---6                         I-. 4I8    10 4      ...
PoiticalS            SI       I.AA   A.AAC       A.I           If.I88?       --         I        S I a4420                         I *249OA                                Ain         IA Is      A 11
JOStAM               to       2. I24  Ica24        .            7.           9    4 ZIP          77----                41          12         11.- III                     77b         10b       40.01
'PIN79                 27.1       --92      --           [Sn8"        ---          -           ----                          IS26                                     0.7       - -       27. 1 72
IO214CC              PR      zi.7      A77I*I    4.79          22.)         14   Al S    IA      11         NOT         50          i         --.-            As            7I,        19,        2.A
71114 A              42       0.9   .1,1524*     2.1"          12.0             7          - .   200        WI         41          job        -2--            in            in-        in
M1ICAL               74       4F.5    2.00       1.4           12.2         147   2  24           1         i          ? II 5 47 2I SI        12.5            itm          A4 ~    I7 1           R.
2191A.A              MO       0.4     61.0         . 4P        772.1        15    21    Z        liA        I707       S           110          1.            A S          40          ZI0       72.Af
11795024     .       Is      A.Ao   1.12         7.11.         740           2 9 Ic     II      I2          el41      AC           35__       12.84           147           I0         In        4.727
ime     f lmotis 4.0  7       .         2         .            20          9       79   of      210        17           2          14?       Al.             41            41         no        mi
9..e.:                                         7I.6-            (7.?-  72).   CA-  I'-        (4-       (1l-       (12-          (17-       (7.4-           (in.         II-        Is-       (6.n7.
472.0)          14.12  94)   40)  13)    9414)           114)      age           P7)        7.01           Inn)7        44         497       214,72
O04.nIItoo  '4p.r:                              11.4            27. 7      II    1     22       41         4           C          41i        241             el           47         246        71.7
1442.4                             4.0             14.1       41    24    I9       1)        07         Al           1    II                   Al 4          ?3         2?         7.17
l,owe,                             1.)             77.72      lot  27    71       21         AC          11          241         5             472           Ia         IS        7J7
N1a,ttl# Me.Ia2.mtoo                            7.1              1.6      4.11  7,9   4.1I 20.72        ISI,,       2.1          Y.72       5.A           21.1          74.1        7.7A        7.7
Reim:.                                          A.4               7.72     44    is    'a       $1         74         %4          14         IA              42           It         27          2.
11tend..r  4401.tseloo                          7.4              4.7       3l  In1      7       24         27         24          it         11              27           24                    7.4
m8d2....                                        4.7             14.m       Al   20    19        11         43         Al     1          II   It               l           30         22         7.7P
0D1TUM IIUAVAILAIAI                                                          a * 04144  P3505 l 110,9457 7345                   1 * S4SI'11Y  MP9 PW910?717  7*797  "LT
... 3A ?2IYUM  NIL C ft  0 WIOIUIA                                              S * S4M  W40 as.-W   "a4  LAM  79.4                I 7     W    MM79   SS 914    4'.09S0194  '701
114111' I)SIE?4AA"IA                                                         0 * CSIY  PU  IIg                                  M * P6746.1C PIlIPW17711I 2761.
IWU194M  PAI-TIUB 41114116621                                                I *MT5 SSSOUJMI RATIJI                            I * 25U02. 1 72941-4424 4f011     14ON
571116059          C.2.M.,  I and 2:  14,14  sank Atl.., ofIdneattIn.  sector Itself *.lss.
72A2.9 1 t8  141 4,14 4.44 44.60.2.6. Go299, elagae". l34wpanot 0av,... and/or 209 lb",?* I9.91.tle.I ?9e4f,4.
loss,2,2...  thnwor,  *. tow  hos90 of cow f7rean2  4994. c2es5a-AS6nem   I ,aq.,l..   *bml..   he  00adelkeO9   V8141  4,9.9t 214910..  Sola proven94  in 2ht4. qb'  207. 4...
46famit10.t ON. 9r01024 21.12.. to 800.4 the ooePOO9 of the data. Iloe400224419. n,.h date 9611cte42111e 202402 4.94,0 respectsS.; t, 27.649 7. ,.k.,41,7
777    'PAsttion1.. .  442lrd 7410  9841 g        2422.499 921 944041C19.  a.A                 hj6714   09  leftis  sea hO,_-2.oI.
(12    -7v..,od-89.  ..'l .   21 r9.466(0910. 91  4. Fr,4 -.twI  In                        - 9 .,v              the-..29,,  2r9 862, ap49891.loatio    ..d  it  1,  qo    9n4.9   7
41...ll. 0      'it....,I 7 Cn.I... h.. ,..,2,9
11I    Porli,," *i..   l-A 0                    14.72 f.7,9   t,9 ('.64I  *747r  4    7 .  a,c ,         of,,1r   277* I7.0 *74fe. ..roI42IAd f.,7*4 79 I.  h. n.0or2,7  799  9    .,hoI *.
mh91in., -1           h.979    78944 7., 2,77-,,.a.   ..011-a4                 ran.        rr   Nto4..ole-tro                        l* 47,.iloi                  N    -             .I
74  4746 10.                    fto.1ao   s06(2.so.tt  *7.   4*.   7  9084 .8.7.   F1241  .4 (f6frethot,  r  htth.ol.,  c 694,the    14st  a4(1. t    7 9447.   ***      -kloIl.I7
49t,-904(70..          n         St%*                     tmr-.4     AIth             h



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
THE VOCATIONAL TR4INING SYSTEMt ITS STRUCTURE,
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES AND ORGANIZATIONAL EFFICIENCY
Backaround
1.       The structure of vocational training ;.n Brazil underwent
significant changes beginning in 1974. The Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare was divided into two mnistries.  The Ministry of Labor (MOL) was
given responsibility for concerns manpower training, employment and wage
policies, and employment protection, and the main vocational training
agencies, SENAI (National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship)1 and SENAC
(National Service for Commercial Apprenticeship), heretofore affiliated
with the Ministry of Education and Culture, were attached to the new
Ministry of Labor. Despite the administrative reorganization, the system
continued to be funded largely through payroll-related levies, and this
despite the promulgation of a Fiscal Incentives Law in 1975 designed to
encourage enterprises to undertake their own training (see Annex III).
The National Vocational Training System
2.       The National Vocational Training Svstem (NVTS), created In 1976 as
an umbrella organization, comprises all the institutions concerned with
vocational training in the country. This System is overseen by a Federal
Council of Mal2ower (CFMO) composed of representatives of the Ministries of
Planning, Finance, Education and Labor, of workers' and employers'
organizations, and of the Confederations of Industry and of Commerce.
(Representatives of theme last teso are the national directors of SENAI and
SENAC, respectively.) The SMO acts as the technical arm of the CFMO. The
Council is responsible for establishing national vocational training
policies that support the national development plan and for introducing
machinery to implement such policies. It collaborates with the National
Center for Human Resources (CNRH)# the research unit of the Secretariat of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic, and the Secretariat of
Employment and Wages to improve techniques for collecting quantitative and
qualitative employment data for use in planning vocational training
nationwide. It also cooperates with the National Center for Vocational
Training (CENAPOR)--an autonomous agency for the training of technical
teachers and instructors. Within its policy mandate, the Council also
(i) promotes the coordination of vocational training with formal education;
(ii) promotes better coordination within SENAI and SENAC and stimulates
course standardization nationwide in an effort to establish a national



- 26 -
AINEX II
Page 2 of 6
occupational training accreditation system; and (iii) undertakes research
at the state and national levels aimed at improving training methodology
and evaluation techniques, and reducing unit costs. The organizational
chart for the NVTS is presented in Attachment 1.
Industrial Training - SENAI
3.       Most industrial training in Brazil is organized by the National
Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI) in its 231 training centers,
245 mobile units, or through in-plant schemes in enterprises. SENAI is a
highly decentralized organization, being effectively managed by the
national and regional councils of the National Confederation of Industry.
Mechanisms of coordination and consultation between SENAI and the
industries have been established at national, regional and local levels:
the national and regional councils are headed by the presidents of the
respective confederation of industry and representatives of groups of firms
selected from the main industrial activities; the local consultative
committees are composed by representatives of the industries and the
community where training centers and programs are operating. The main
duties of these committees are to transmit inputs from firms and industries
and provide policy advice for the annual programming of the activities.
While budget approval and allocations are centrally administered, the
individual operating units at the local level have considerable program
autonomy. At present, the planning function has been reduced to the office
of a single advisor, but plans are underway to re-establish a Planning
Division within the National Directorate (DN). The Organ4zational Chart
for SENAI is available in the project files.
4.       Funded largely through a 1% tax on the payroll of manufacturing
firms, SENAI's revenues in 1985 totaled US$90 million -- a 3.8  real
increase over 1984. For 1986, a corresponding increase on the order of 80%
is expected, owing to surging employment and wages in manufacturing, to an
expansive redefinition of the tax base, and to the one time effects of the
Plan Cruzado. Thereafter, such increases are projected to taper off,
averaging between 15 to 20 percent per year between 1986-1991. Within
SENAI's network of regional chapters (DeDartamentos) a substantial
redistribution of resources takes place from the wealthier states in the
Center-South to poorer ones, especially in the Northeast. In 1985, the 9
Northeast chapters received subsidies from the rest of the system
equivalent to almost one half of the receipts attributable to their own
geographic area.
5.       Courses offered range from semi-skilled to management levels, with
a total output of 600,000 in 1985 (365,000 from SENAI centers and 231,000
from in-plant training programs). About 80 percent of the training in
centers is oriented toward adult workers and supervisory staff in short
courses where dropouts are negligible. The remaining 202 is oriented
toward occupational training for school leavers from the formal education
system. Many State Secretariats of Education have contracted SENAI or
other training agencies for this purpose; in 1985, 7,399 secondary students
received training under such schemes.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Coinercial and Service Sector Trainina - SEMAC
6.       Training for the service sector is organised by the National
Service for Comercial Apprenticeship (SEMAC) in its 191 training centers.
SENAC is a much more centralized organization than SENAI, with a National
Board responsible for the whole country comprising oeprosontatives of the
Ministries of Education and Culture, Labor, coomrcial enterprises, and
organizod labor. Ita planning function being highly contralised, lacks the
mechanisms providing useful feod-back from the regions. SENAC mechanisms
of coordination and consulting with the Commercial Confederations and firms
are similar to those described above for SENAI. Technical supervision is
provided and all training programs are approvod by the National
Directorate. The Organizational Chart for SENAC is available in tho
prcject filos. The flow of funds also comes through the DN. The Regional
Directorates are typically divided into two divisions, one for training and
one for administration. Three subregional offices (Dolegacias) are
operated diroctly by the DN.
7.       Funded largely from a 11 tax on the payroll of firmsa in the formal
service sector (with some exceptions), SENAC's revenues in 1985 totalled
US$51 million -- an 82 real increase over 1984. As in the case of SENAI,
and for the same reasons, an extraordinarily large real increase in SENAC
revenues is expected for 1986, and a similar pattern of high but
decelerating growth to 1991. SENAC also transfers substantial proportions
of its revenues from the wealthier to the poorer regions.
8.       Almost all SENAC training activities are for adults and
supervisors in short courses organized in fixed centers. SENAC output in
1985 was about 790,000 persons; of these only 72 were trained in
enterprises. Of the total numbers trained, 281 were preservice (adults and
youth) and the remaining 722 inservice. The main training areas were:
administration and management (121), office and secretarial skills (441),
nursing (81), beautician (151), hotel and catering (51), and information
and communication (161). SENAC has also developed so called 'pedagogical
enterprises' for training in hotel and catering, beauty and barbering
occupations. These are institutions which finance their training programs
out of the profits of the services they provide to the public. Trainees
receive graduated stipends during their training. Hotel schools already
operating are based on this methodology.
Rural Trainina - SENAR
9.       Most rural training activities are organised by the National
Service for Rural Apprenticeship (SENAR), which was created in 1976 and is
operated by the Ministry of Labor and financed by a spyecial development
fund earmarked for that purpose under a presidentlal decree. The
institution skill lacks the necessary administrative and financial autonomy
required to achieve its mandate. Funded largely by the Federal Treasury,
SENAR's revenues in 1985 totalled US$5.8 million -- a 151 real increase
over 1984. A large Increase in revenues is budgeted for 1986 and ample
increases are projected for subsequent years.
10.      SENAR is headed by a Director General at the federal level and has
two principle divisions: a Technical Directorate responsible for the
operational, prograrmatic and technical aspects of rural training, and an
Administrative Directorate reapoisibibe for coordinsting funds, personnel



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
and general services. The national office of SENAR is linked to 23
coordination units which have 318 training agencies and 40 training
centers. StNAR also maintains a sizeable fleet of mobile units, which
contain equipment and necessary teaching support materials (although not
enough differentiated to take into account regional agricultural
characteristics) and can be dispatched directly to the rural areas. The
organizational chart for SENAR is in the project files.
11.      SENAR works directly with rural dwellers as well as with unions,
cooperative societies, municipalities, community organizations and other
institutions that conduct their work in the rural environment. In 1985,
training was offered for about 240,000 people, of which about 230,000 were
in upgrading courses and about 10,000 new entrants to the labor market. Of
this, about 173,000 were small farmers.
Occupational Safety and Health Training - FUNDACENTRO
12.      Training and research in occupational safety and health are the
responsibility of the National Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene
and Medicine (FUNDACENTRO), a semi-autonomous agency established in 1976
under the Secretariat of Labor Relations and is financed by 1.0 percent of
the basic work-accident insurance premium of enterprises. While not a
formal part of the training structure within the Ministry of Labor,
FUNDACENTRO depended upon the Ministry to appoint members of its managing
councils and performed a vital complementary role in promoting safety in
the workplace. The Government gave additional impetus to the importance of
occupational safety in 1972 by making it compulsory for firms with over 100
employees to establish specialized occupational safety, hygiene and health
services.
13.      At present FUNDACENTRO has a nationLl center in Sao Paulo and
three branches in Rio de Janeiro, Brasilia and Recife, from which it
conducts most of its research and training. FUNDACENTRO has responsibility
for post-graduate training in safety engineering and occupational medicine
in addition to training safety supervisors and foremen. About 13,600
persons were trained in 1985.
14.      FUNDACENTRO's revenues in 1985 totalled US$2.8 million -- a 172
real increase over 1984. As in the case of SENAI and SENAC, and for the
same reasons, an extraordinarily large real increase in FUNDACENTRO's
revenues is expected in 1986, and a similar pattern of high but
decelerating growth to 1991. The organizational chart for FUNDACENTRO is
available in the project files.
Organizational Efficiency of the Training System.
15.      At present, there is no major problem of unnecessary duplication
of training facilities within the so-called "public sector" (those agencies
financed through payroll levies--set Annex III) nor between the public and
private sectors. Although training is provided under the acgis of at least
thrue federal ministries (Labor, Education and Agriculture), the
corresponding target groups and responsibilities are reasonably well
apportioned among the various public sector training agencies. Perhaps the
most significant, though arguable, exceptions are SENAC's, and especially



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
SINAI's, "aprendizagem" courses that contain substantial elements of
'general education". A systematic review of the efficiency of the present
structure, and of possible ways of improving it, will nevertheless be
carried out under the Project.
16.      Few private providers of training operate in the markets served by
the training agencies and none of them is a major competitor* The reason,
in the case of FUNDACENTRO, ls that there is only a limited market for this
type of training. In respect of SENAR, and to a lesser extent SENAC, the
clientele's ability to pay is limited by relatively low income and scant
savings; the benefits of training accrue gradually and over long periods,
and efficient capital markets to bridge the gap do not exist. In the case
of SENAI, in addition, the importance of having very cloae institutional
links to 'end-users" in the types of training offered, provides a large
competitive advantage to an agency that is as closely controlled by end-
users as SENAI.
17.      The concern about possibly damaging encroachment of the public
training agencies on markets that might be more efficiently served by
private providers of training in the future is nevertheless pertinent. It
is being addressed by the recent establishment of a high level comission
under the Ministry of Education to oversee technical education, the signing
of an accord between SENAI, SENAC and the Ministry of Education to avoid
duplication in vocational training programs, and by the provision under the
proposed project of studies to assess the potential for duplication.
Government has agreed, moreover, that while there is no significant
duplication of training activities, guidelines would be established under
the project to delineate responsibilities for the future provision of
training among public sector agencies and between the publVc and private
sectors. These guidelines would guard against potential wasteful overlap
across training sources in the future. The project includes support for
related studies to assess options for the future financing of training,
including potential for increased cost recovery and private sector
involvement in the delivery of training.



Mational Vocational Training Syltei Organizatien Cbart
|iniktry of-                  -ea  Council                           I" St
Labr                                          of Manpower    |       |Prd bcy eti
Secretariat of             ecretar&&E               S croetriat of                      "| 
Labor Relations           of.Hanpover               FlAPo)Ueas  Sad
IFUNDACEPTROI                 /S 1
(non Rural                 (Rural
Sectors)                    C Sector,r
Confederation                                                                                    a Comfederatiao
|of IndustrY |o   c 
[i m mEJ'2/0
L-iecutive relati3nehip
-------- *Adviory relatimablp
I/ Not on Innstitution but a progras of the respective Secretariat.
/  Regiatul Centers ol SENAI and SENAC.
r?t 04Ez
0%
* 01-
:s .'b
n ' 



- 31 -
ANAnI III
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Financial Asw ctr of Trainina
A. Sources and Uses of Funds of the Participating Aaencies
Backaround
1.       Of the four training agencies, only SINAR is funded primarily from
general fiscal revenues; the remaining three are funded largely from
payroll-related levies and none of them receives funds through the ficc
(Table III.1). In the case of SINAI and SINAC9 such levies art not
entirely compulsory; legal provisions enable firms to arrange for their
training needs so that the payroll levy liability becomes minimal.
Revenues flowing into the training agencies have fluctuated enormously with
the economic cycle in the past, as have investment and activity levels.
For the range of macro-economic projections proeontly being used by the
Government and by the lank, It io unlikely that SINAI, SENAC or FUNDACENTRO
would not be able to provide the stipulated counterpart funding for the
Project. The Project is expected to improve the managemnt of financial
resources in the agencies and dampen economically undesirable fluctuations
in investment and operating levels.
The Payroll Levy: Tax or User Charge?
2.       The principal source of revenue for both SENAI and SENAC is made
up of funds collected from firms in certain industries that contribute to
the social security system through its central revenue-collection agency --
the Social Security Institute (IAPAS). Revenues collected from firms in
manufacturing are assigned to SINAI, revenues collected from firms In
services are assigned to SINAC. (Certain industries, notably banking and
construction, are legally exempted from the payroll levy.)
3.       The levy on the contributing firm  is for approximately 1  of
their wage bill, subject to minor variations depending on the sise of the
work force (firm with 500 or more employees are liable for an additional
0.2S on the saes wage bill base), and on the proportion of employees
earning more than a certain amount (the firmst liability resulting from
remuneration to any individual worker is capped at 20 times the minimum
wage). By law, IAPAS is entitled to retain, in lieu of a service charge,
a small fraction (1S) of th levy collections paid by the firms, to be
deducted from the amounts ultimately credited to the training agencies.1
1/ In the past, IAPAS has at times failed to fully and/or promptly pass on
the amounts to which the agencies were legally entitled. Over the past
several months transfers from IAPAS have been timely and in full.
Agency and governent officials do not expect a recurrence of the
problem in the foreseeable future.



- 32 -
ANNSu III
Page 2 of 6
4.       To an even greater extent than for the other two agencies,
FUNDACENTRO's funding also relies on a levy associated with labor costs.
In this case, the contributors are manufacturing firms that pay into the
the social security system. They arc levied 12 of their respective premium
in favor of the Workers' Accident Insurance Fund (Seguro Acidente de
Trabalho), which latter are in turn proportional to the number of
employees.
5.       Concern is often expressed that compulsory taxation of private
firms to finance governm nt-run training operations may be an inefficient
arrangement. While the payroll-related lines desribed above name at least
some elements of a tax, there are cctain features of the finance and
governnance of SENAI and SENAC, however, which call for substantial
qualifications of the generalization that taxing private firms to finance
government-run training is undesirable.
6.       First, neither agency ls run by the government.  SENAI is run
under the decisive control of a national federation of manufacturers; SENAC
under that of a national federation of commerce and services firms. The
two federations are quite decentralized (especially SENAI); the national
headquarters (National Directorate(s)) have limited powers of decision on
the operation of the agencies, and even on the allocation of revenues among
the Regional Departments. Operational initiatives (and for SINAI,
opertional decisions as well) on what courses to offer, how, when, where)
are typically taken by the Regional Departments in the less advanced states
of the Northeast; in the economically leadirg states (e.g. Sao Paulo and
Rio) these are taken at even more decentralized levels of jurisdiction. As
a result, "end user" control is very considerable.
7.       Second, firms covered by the payroll levy legislation may withdraw
patronage from SENAI or SENAC (as the case may be) by providing in-house
training, or by contracting with outside vendors to provide training to
their employees, in accordance to certain legal requirements administered
by the CFMO. The firms may deduct up to 80Z of the cost from the payroll
levy liability. (SENAI and S8NAC are themselves eligible to provide such
training.)2 Therefore the payroll levy is not entirely 'compulsory".
8.       In sum, compared to most training agencies in Latin America, SENAI
and SENAC are characterized by a very high degree of "end-user" control.
Moreover, since the payroll levy that largely finances them is not entirely
compulsory, there is much less reason to be concerned about the
inefficiencies arising from this arrangement than would be the case in
government supported training agencies in most other Latin American
2/ Firms meeting such requirements may instead choose to deduct up to
twice the cost associated with the training from taxable profits in
calculating their profits-tax liability (up to a maximum of 102 of the
taxble profit base).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 6
countries. Nonetheless more analysis is required to identify potential for
improving training efficiency, e.g., of possibilities for revising the tax
system, having SENAI *nd SENAC subcontract to private providers on a
competitive basis, and using vouchers, etc. The project includes studies
in these areas (see Annex II, para. 17).
Sources of Funds
9.       In 1985, payroll-related levies were the major source of funds for
SENAI (64% of total sources), SENAC (49%), and FUNDACENTRO (862). This is
an inherently volatile source of financing which fluctuates sharply over
cycles in economic activity. Through attending swings in employment and
wages in the formal sector, the wage bill, and hence the take from the
payroll-related levies, are driven in;o cycles of greatly magnified
amplitude. For example, while GDP fell by 3.2% between 1982 and 1983,
SENAI's revenues from the payroll levy plunged by 54.52; conversely the
strong economic recovery of 1986 (a GDP growth in the order of 8-12S over
1985) is resulting in a corresponding payroll-levy revenue of roughly
double the 1985 level. 3 Yet, even after such a spectacular gain, SENAI's
expected payroll-levy revenue in 1986 remains 152 below the 1982 level.
10.      Another important source of funds for SENAI, SENAC, and
FUNDACENTRO in recent years has been returns earned on their asets --
mainly financial assets invested at the extremely high real tites of return
that have been available in Brazil (especially in the so-calied 'overnight'
market). Such financial returns accounted for one-third of SENAI's total
usable funds in 1985, one-fifth of SENAC's ind 11% of FUNDACZNTRO's. In
addition to new loans, revenues from instructional and other services
rendered, and from the sale of goods produced as a by-product of training,
were also significant. In the same year, such 'cost recivery" item are
estimated at roughly US$2 million for SENAI, or about 32 of revenues from
the payroll levy; for SENAC, at about US$7 million, or 302 of such
revenues.
Uses of Funds
11.      Financial management of these agencies has been quite conservative
in the past and is expected to remain so in the future. In 1985, about 802
and 12% of total outlays in each agency were devoted to operating expenses
and investments respectively. In both cases, total sources of funds
exceeded outlays by a considerable margin: in SENAI by 202; in SENAC by
40%. Even during the depth of the recent recession, the annual surplus4
remained relatively large: in 1983, SENAI's total sources exceeded outlays
by 20%, SENAC's by 182.
Financial Prospects
12.      Because of the highly leveraged dependence of the payroll-related
levies on the rate of aggregate economic activity, financial prospects for
SENAI, SENAC, and FUNDACENTRO are crucially affected by macroeconomic
3/ All inter-temporal comparisons of money-measured variables are in real
terms.



- 34 -
Page 4 ot 6
projections. txpected results for 1986, reflecting extraordinarily rapid
rates of growth In employment (in the order of 62) and wages would leave
the three agencies In a comfortable financial position from which to plan
for 1987 and beyond. For *xample, at the end of 1985, SINAI's accumulated
surplus was US$31 million, or about 44S of total outlays In that year; by
the end of 1986, this pereontage is expected to be appreciably higher.
13.      Until recently, the Bank's macroeconomic projections for Brasil
included continuing rapid growth through 1987 and beyond. Recent
developments have cast serious doubt on such projections, and they are
being substantially revised; particularly, previous expectations for growth
in output, employment, and wages in 1987 are now substantially diminished.
Under present circumtancee, longer term projects for Brasil are subject to
an unusually wide margin of uncertainty. While likely outcomes appear to
include at least some growth for 1987 and at least moderate growth over the
medium term, the possibility of an economic downturn over the life of the
Project cannot be ruled out. Even if such a downturn were to occur,
however, barring another major depression, the agencies should have little
difficulty In providing the stipulated counterpart financing for the
Project.5
14.      To the extent that moderate to rapid economic growth were to
continue through the next few years, the Project would strengthen the
agencies' management of the increasingly available resources; in shaping
and implementing more smbitious programs (especially those supportive of
rapidly ad&anclng technologies, and especially therefore in SINAI) and in
husbanding appropriate amounts of reserves to cope with eventual cyclical
downturns. Under the Project, annual review of agency-wide programs and
financial performance would be conducted; and in-depth evaluation of these
would be carried out during the third and fourth years of implementation as
part of the comprehen.ive mid-term review. To the extent that economic
conditions undergo cyclical deterioration during the next several years,
the Proj1et wouid play an Important role in dampening the pernicious
procyclical fluctuations in invostmants and In the levels of activity of
the training agencies: by providing incentives to draw down reserves to
ensure adherence to the agreed implementation program and by financing a
significant part of Project outlays.
15.      Because of their status as organisational units of the Ministry of
Labor, the funding of SINAR (either in its present or potential legal
forms) and the SMO is determined by a political process; their financial
prospects, therefore, cannot be systematically assessed on the basis of
economic considerations. Empirical considerations, however, strongly
suggeSt that their funding will also tend to vary directly with the overall
level of economic activity; and moro spocifically, with the extent to which
macroeconomic policy (particularly through its fiscal component) is
expansionary. It seems likely that over the life of the Project, such
4/ Total sources iess total outlays.
5/ This expectation is strengthened by revisions, underway during the
Appraisal Mission, of the formulas determining the calculation of the
payroll-levy. The foreseen outcome of the revisions would result in
significant increases (perhaps by as much as 302) in the corresponding
revenues accruing to SINAI and SSNAC for a given size and structure of
the wage bill base on which the levies are assessed.



- 35 -
ANNUl III
Page 5 of 6
policies will undergo material variations In this respect. To reduce the
Project's vulnerability to defficienclo in counterpart fundc for the SENAR
and 8MO components, it has betn agreed that appropriate budgetary
provisions will be systematically incorvorated Into the government's budget
documentation and reviewed annually as part of the project Implementation
process.



- 36 -
ANNSX III
Pago 6 of 6
Table IV.1s  SOURCS AND USES OF PUNDS OF TRAINING AGENCIES, 1985
(In millions of US$ and percent)
SENAI           SENAC        FUNDACENTRO       SENAR
Sources                     USS    (2)       USS    LD    USS        (S)    US$   (iS
Payroll levy                 58   ( 64)      25    ( 49)   2.4    ( 86)  -0-    -0-
Return on assets             29   ( 32)      10    ( 20)   0.3    ( 11)  -0-    -0-
Other non-fiscal sources    3   ( 03)        16 */ ( j1J    0.1    ( 03)  1.1   (19)
Total non-fiscal sources  90   (100)        51    (100)   2.8    (100)  1.1   (19)
Fiscal sources              Q 0         0            0       0        0   4.7   (81)
Total Sources          90   (100)      51    (100)   2.8    (100)  5.8  (100)
Uses
Operating expenses           59   ( 65)      24    ( 47)   2.2       (79)  5.3b/ (92)
Investments                   8   ( 9)        4    (  8)   0.2       ( 7)  0.5    (8)
Other outlays                 5   L -         2 2      4)  L( )            -      -
Total outlays           72   ( 80)       30    ( 59)   2.4      (86)
Surplus                 18   C 20)      21    1 41)   0.4       (15)
Total Uses         90   (100)      51    (100)   2.8       (100) 5.8  (100)
Sources:  SEMIs  Project Vol. II, Quadro 1
SENAC: Relatorio GCral, 1985, p. 61
FUNDACENTRO, SENAR: Projoct documentation
I/ Largely consisting of accumulated surplus (US$3.6 million) and additions
to accounts payable.
b/ Includes other outlays and surplus.
Notet  Amounts of le  than half the unit shown are indicated by (.)



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Vocational Trainina Policies and Institutional Issues
Sector Policies
1.       Government policies for vocational training aim to enhance labor
productivity. Key policies are to promote increased responsibility for
training in the private sector, retraining programs to meet changing
industrial needs, safety in the work place and a higher quality of
training. Further emphasis is given to providing service-related training
for rural youths in poorer regions to increase job possibilities.
Effective use of existing and potential training resources and requisite
expansion of training opportunities form part of the overall policy
oriencation. These general policy aims complement broader policies for
economic and social development and are sound. However, gaps exist in the
institutional underpinnings for policy management and implementation. To
meet changing requirements for training, the responsiveness of the system
requires strengthening. Improvements in sector policy and management
capabilities, together with improvements in coverage and quality, are
needed to ensure continued advances in training effectiveness.
Institutional Issucs
2.       Central Policy Guidance and Coordination.  At the federal level,
the CFMO's capacity to provide policy guidance and to coordinate training
activities is limited by two main constraints. First, CFMO membership is
too narrowly focussed on the public sector in view of objectives for
expanding private sector training. Private enterprise and labor are
represented by two of 12 Council members. Second, the 12 professional
staff serving the CFMO spend the majority of time processing data for the
training system. This focus duplicates the formal responsibilities of the
SMO, which lacks the capacity to carry them out. Fu&.ther, the processing
procedures for use of the Fiscal Incentives Law by firms are cumbersome
(data ae also processed manually in spite of available computer capacity)
and tend to work against objectives: at present, only 52 of eligible firms
participate.
3.       As a consequence of these institutional problems, neither the
policy management nor the related coordination capacity of the CFMO is
fully developed.   In particular, policy agenda for review and adjustment
are not prepared on a regular basis, the needs of the private sector are
not fully reflected, and complementarity between private and public sector
training is not systematically monitored. To begin focusing on its
principal mandates, the CFMO has initiated (through the SMO) a process to
convert the present vocational training policies into training targets and
programs. Further efforts are needed to revise the composition of the CFMO,



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
to strengthen links with relevant entities within and outside the system,
and to simplify and transfer processing tasks to the SMO.
4.       Central Technical Support.  Organizational and staffing
constraints largely explain the SMO's performance problems. The SMO's
current structure and task priorities do not adequately reflect the
agency's support mandates. Instead, they center on selected research, on
development of training methods and materials for special projects, and on
provision of training for staff. As a line agency of the MOL, the SMO also
suffers from the staffing constraints of the civil service generally. It
lacks the salary flexibility of the semi-autonomous training agencies
(SENAI and SENAC) and is unable to attract competent mid-level
professionals in sufficient: numbers. (Staff in key, higher level positions
are mainly seconded from the training agencies.)
5.       As a result of the institutional problems, the SMO is unable to
provide effective technical support for the training system. The SMO does
collect and compile training data on a regular basis. However, it is
unable to analyze these data systematically and does not compile or analyze
related infortnation on training demand, effectiveness, costs or financing.
The SMO further lacks the capacity and procedures to ensure the priority
and feasibility of policy studies carried out throughout the training
system, and research staff and tasks are duplicated between the CFMO and
the SMO. The SMO also lacks broad guidelines and criteria for the
planning, programming and monitoring of training by the training agencies
and systematic procedures for promoting the development and expansion of
vocational training. To begin to strengthen the SMO technical support
capacity, a revised structure and staffing arrangements, staff upgrading,
and improved systems for providing technical and training promotion
services need to be introduced.
6.       Policy and Program Implementation.  Several institutional problems
are shared by the three main training agencies --SENAI, SENAC AND SENAR --
and by FUNDACENTRO. Chief among these are weaknesses in practices for
implementing policies, for identifying needs for changes in structure and
staffing patterns, and for planning, monitoring and evaluating training
programs. In addition, SENAR suffers from severe structural and staffing
limitations.
7.       The training agencies and FUNDACENTRO are guided directly in
policy matters by national (and in the cases of SENAI and SENAC, regional)
councils. To date, these councils have not instituted systematic
requirements for periodic review of agency policies or for the
incorporation of national policies into training targets and strategies.
The policy councils share the more general problem of inadequate private
sector and labor representation. In addition, channels for regular
cooperation and interchange with key client groups and government agencies
involved with manpower issues are not fully developed.
8.       The organizational structures of the three training agencies and
FUNDACENTRO are similar. In terms of legal structure, SENAI, SENAC and
FUNDACENTRO are semi-autonomous agencies of the MOL. Broadly speaking,
organizational and staffing arrangements in these agencies are sufficiently
flexible to enable them to adapt to changing requirements for training.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
However, none has introduced procedures for the continuous review of
structures, functions and staffing needs. By contrast with the other
agencies, SENAR is part of the regular MOL structure. As a result, it
lacks maneauverability in matters of salaries and budgetary resources.
These constraints severely hamper the further development and expansion of
SENAR and its programs.
9.       Institutional weaknesses are also reflected in management
processes in the training agencies and FURDACENTRO. Each agency has an
information system which focuses mainly on internal training data. Efforts
to integrate and analyze these and other data (on training costs and
financing, and on employment and salaries) have not yet been undertaken
systematically. Capacities for conducting policy and program-related
studies vary among the agencies, but guidelines and criteria for ensuring
priority and adequate quality are lacking.  Planning and prog.aming of
courses are tied to annual budget expectations in the main, and efforts to
introduce effective rolling plan mechanisms are incomplete. Further, none
of the agencies monitors training costs or attempts to measure training
productivity on a regular basis.
10.      To ensure the continued effectiveness of training and an improved
response to market demand, the policy management structures and processes
of the training agencies and FUNDACENTRO need to be further developed
together with systems for ensuring organizational effectiveness. Program
support systems also need to be strengthened. By comparison with other
agencies, SENAR lacks the staff competence and flexibility required to
strengthen internal management practices significantly at present. To
begin to resolve these problems, SENAR has developed a proposal for its
conversion to a semi-autonomous foundation.



-40-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Labor Market Setting
Employment and waze trends
1.       Over the 1970s, la'bor force and employment grew faster than
working age population; labor productivity rose rapidly and real wage gains
were widespread (Table 5.1). In the non-agricultural 'formal" sector,
employment growth came to a halt during the 1980/81-1983/84 recession.
During the recession, certain industries had severe employment cutbacks and
major categories of workers suffered sharp real wage reductions. Since
1984, labor markets have strengthened markedly, and since mid-1986, there
is growing evidence of labor shortages in several markets (e.g.,
construction in Sao Paulo, printing in Rio; real wages in these markets
have been surging).
2.       Although on average, wages among unskilled workers rose even
faster than among skilled workers after the early 1970s, wage premiums
associated with certain high-skilled categories remain very large,
indicating insufficient supply of workers trained in these particular
skills.1   The view that many types of highly skilled industrial workers
are in short supply is reinforced by direct reports from personnel managers
of large manufacturing firms and from knowledgeable staff in the training
agencies responsible for providing skilled workers to handle the emerging
technologies.
Prospects
3.       Brazil's development objectives envisage a continuation of the
ongoing rapid transformation of economic activity towards an ever-
increasing preponderance of technologically advanced means of production
(particularly, the so-called tecnologias de punta)32  Such objectives,
moreover, also untail a sustained drive to expand exports of manufactured
goods, which requires keeping up with rapidly changing and technically
complex production methods (notably, digitally controlled machine tools,
lasser technology, robotics, biogenetics). With Brazil's proven ability to
1/  The mean wage for repairmen of telecommunication equipment in 1983, for
example, was 76% higher than for mechanics of automotive vehicles.
Source: Ministerio de Trabalho, Configuracao Parcial da Forca de
Trabalho (Brasilia, 1985), pp.202, 235.
21 I Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Nova Republica, 1986-1989 and
Plano de Metas.



- 41 -
ANNEX V
Pago 2 of 4
master and incorporate the new technologies, these objectives will be,
without doubt, earnestly pursued. Incorporating these technologies into
economic production at the expected rapid pace will require a comparably
rapid expansion of programs for training workers in their use and
maintenance.
4.       Available analytical work suggests certain orders of magnitude of
likely future demand tor highly trained technicians and skilled workers.
Simulations from a model developed to examino employment prospects in
Brazil over the remainder of the 1980s indicate that the skill-intensive
nature of Brazilian growth over the 1970s is likely to continue in the
future, owing largely to the complementarity between capital and labor.3 In
particular:
(a) "skilled" blue-collar jobs4 will tend to grow about 50% faster
than overall employments and
(b) "skilled" white-collar jobs will tend to grow about twice as fast
as overall employment.5
5.       The Bank estimates that long-term employment must grow at least 4%
per year to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb those still
affected by the recent recession. Such overall employment would
accordingly imply rates of growth of 6% and 8% per year for skilled blue-
and white-collar workers respectively.6 While the attainment of the 4% per
year employment growth target seems feasible, a plausible range for the
eventual outcome would include rates as low as 22 per year. Barring a
major breakdown in the economic order, aggregate employment growth of at
least 2% per year may thus be conservatively assumed. According to the
statistical associations underlying the above mentioned model, this implies
rates of job growth of at least 3% for skilled blue collar workers and 4%
for skilled white collar workers; or roughly, at least 260,000 additional
jobs for skilled workers and technicians by 1990. Such magnitudes are
judged to be more than sufficient to provide job opportunities for the
graduates of formal technical and vocational training programs in Brazil
under present and prospective capacity to provide such training.
6.       Another element of judgement comes from a manpower study,
according to which the projected supply of formally trained technicians
would meet only about 56% of the total average annual demand during 1991-
2000. (For developed countries the corresponding figure is as high as
3/  LC2BR, Report No. 5906-BR (October 18,1985).
4/  The category with the highest "skill content" among three blue-collar
skill categories distinguished in the study.
5/  IbWd, pp. 29-32.
6/  The 4% per year minimum target for employment growth is taken from
World Bank Report P-4394-BR (September 25, 1986), p.5, para. 16.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
902.) 7 In the agricultural sector, training expansion is also called for
to meet skill roquirements generated by the newly adopted (a) national plan
of agrarian reform; (b) national irrigation program; and (c) plan for the
moderni2ation of the agriculture sector.
7/  Calculations based on World Bank Report No. 4126-BR ("Brazil--
Industrial Technician Education and Training--sub-sector memorandum,"
October 18, 1982). This projected the increases in supply resulting
from the technician training project of che Ministry of Education
(financed by the Bank through Loan 2366-BR) under implementation. 8uch
projections, however, overestimated actual results, implying that the
existing shortfall would now be greater, on this account, than
projected at that time. Lower than projected economic growth (and,
hence, 'demand" for technicians) over the first half of the 1980s, on
the other hand, would tend to compensate -- at least partially -- for
the overestimated "supply."



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
Table 5.1. SELECTED LABOR MARKET INDICES, BRAZIL, 1970-1985
Average Annual Rate of Change (%)
1970        1981        1983        1984
- 80        - 83        -84         - 85
A. Labor Force
Population 10 years and older a/         2.9         2.4         2.4         2.4
Labor Force                              3.9 b/      3.5 c/      2.9 c/
B. Employment
Total                                    n.a.        3.2 c/      3.5 c/
Non-agricultural                       n.a.        4.8 c/      (.) c/
Formal sector                        n.a.       -0.1 c/      n.a.
Informal sector                      na.a        6 6 c/      n.a.
B.  Labor Productivity                             1980-83
Agriculture                              5.3 d/
Manufacturing                            2.0 d/      2.7 e/
Commerce and services                    4.5 d/
C.  Average Real Wage                  1970-80                 1980-85
Casual rural laborers (Brazil) f/        6.0                    -7.6
Workers in manufacturing
(City of Sao Paulo) g/                                       1980-84
Skilled                              2.3                    -5.6
Unskilled                            2.6                    -2.2
Note: Changes of less than 0.05% per year are indicated by (.).
a/ Macedo 1986, p. 5 (for 1970-80); PHN projections (other periods).
bi' Idem. Since available evidence strongly suggests that the aggregate
unemployment rate probably fell during this period, the corresponding
rate of growth of employment is probably at least 4%/year.
c/ Pfefferman 1986. Table 12.
a/ Macedo 1986, p. 6.
e/ IBGE, Indicadores Conjunturais de Industria (LC2BR 1985, p. 13).
f/ Pfefferman 1986. Table 6. Over the period 1972-1980.
&/ Macedo 1986, p. 56.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
Skills Formation Prolect
Reference Documents and Data Available in the ProJect File
A. Description of the Vocational Training System and Prolect Aaencies
B.  General Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.  Brazil.  Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, February 26, 1985.
2.  Brazil.  Human Resources Special Report, World Bank, July 13, 1979.
3. Brazil. Poverty and Basic Needs Series, Peter T. Knight and R. Moran,
December 6, 1979.
4. SENAI, Departamento Nacional, A Mao - de - Obra na Industria
Siderurgica Brasileira.
5. SENAI, Departamento Nacional, Tecnicos em SideruRgi - Desempenho
Profissional, 1983.
6. SENAI, Departamento Regional de Sao Paulo, Os Tecnicos Formados y lo
SENAI, 1980.
7. SENAI, Departamento Nacional, Relatorios, 1983, 1984, 1985.
8.  Brazil.   Industrial Development Issues of the Northeast, World Bank,
March 1986.
9.  FUNDACENTRO, Disenvolvimento Cientific    Tecnol6aico na Area de
Seguranza e Saude Ocupacion , Sao Paulo, Janeiro 1986.
10. MTB - SENAC, Proposta de Acgo para a Formacio Profissional no Setor
Terciario
11. SENAI Departamento Nacional, Relatorios, 1984/1985.
12. Brazil.   Loan 1452 - BR, Project Completion Report (White Cover) May
1986.
13. MTB/SMO, Configuracao Parcial da Forca de Trabalho, Rais 1981, 1982,
1983.
14. SENAI, Departamento Nacional, Inovacoes Tecnicas e Formac;o
Profissional na Industria Automovilistica, Janeiro 1986.
15. Directriz.s Gerais de Politica Economica, Notas para o I PND da Nova
Republica, Maio 1985.
16. MTG/SMO/CFMO, Una Proposta de Aco.



- 45 -
ANNIX VI
Page 2 of 5
17. SENAI, Desenvolvimento de Recursoe Humanos do Sistema SENAI, Junho
1984.
18. SENAI/'AO PAULO, Novas Tecnoloaias, Emprego * Qualifica;io na Industria
Mecanica, Junho 1985.
19. SENAI/SP, Avaliac;o do CTE - SiderurRia, Margo 1986.
20. Instituto Brasileiro de Relagoes do Trabalho, Relatorio, 1985.
21. I Plano de Desemvolvimento da Nova Republica, 1986 - 1989.
22. SENAI/SAO PAULO, Cursos * Programa$oes de Treinamento, 1979.
23. Cadastro das Entidades de Formacio Profissional do SNFM, 1981.
24. Dicionario das Profissoes, 1981.
25. Legal Regulationa of the Vocational Training System
Decreto no 74.000, de 1.V.1974 (vinculaci6n de entidades al Ministerio
do Trabajo), articulo 10 - II.
Decreto no 74.296, de 16.VII.1974 (estructura basica del Ministerio de
Trabajo).
Portaria no 3.336, db 1.X.1975 (reglamento de la Secretaria de Mano de
Obra).
Decreto n 77.362, de 1.IV.1976 (instituci6n y organizacion del Sistema
Nacional de Formaci6n de Mano de Obra).
26. Fiscal Incentives for Training in Enterprises
Ley n 6.297, de 15.XII.1975.
Decreto n 77.463, de 20.IV.1976 (reglamentario de la Ley n 6.297).
Ley no 6.542, de 28.VI.1978.
Portaria no 3.341, de 20.IX.1978 (instrucciones).
Portaria n 3.396, de 11.X.1978 (programas de formaci6n profesional).
27. Legal Regulations of the Vocational Training Institutions
Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial (SENAI).
Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Comercial (SENAC).
Programa Intensivo de Preparacio de Mio-de-Obra (PIPMO).
Servico Nacional de Formacio Profissional Rural (SENAR).
Centro Nacional de AperfeiCoamento de Pessoal para a Formacao
Profissional (CENAFOR).



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
28. The Apprenticeship System
Normas de la Consolidacao das Leis do Trabalho (CLT). Decreto-ley no
5.452 y modificativos; articulos 80; 402 y as.
Decreto no 31.546, de 6.X. 1952 (concepto de empleado-aprendiz).
Portaria n 49, de 14.V.1946 (sobre aprendizaje industrial).
Portaria no 193, de 11XII.1958 (registro de contratos de aprendizaje).
Portaria n 43, de 27.IV.1953 y anexos (relacion de oficios y
ocupaciones sujetos a aprendizaje metodico).
Portaria no 127, de 18.XII.1956 (aprendizaje en el propio empleo).
29. Regulations on Students Practices in Enterprises
Ley n 6.494, de 7.XII.1977.
30. Regulations on Certificates and Diplomas
Decreto nO 350, de 14.XII.1961 (registro de "Cartas de Oficio").
Decreto no 64.352, de 14.IV.1969 (examenes de suficiencia).
31. Legal Regulations for Technician Training
Ley no 5.524, de 5.XI.1968.
32. Formal Education--Supplementary Education
Ley n 5.692, de ll.VIII.1971.
C. General Reports and Studies on the Prolect
1. List of Staff Training Courses and Number of Participant Agency
SMO
1. Informacoes sobre a Formacao Profissional no Pais, Planos de
Desenvolvimento, Emprego e Aspectos Economicos e Financeiros.
2. Resumo dos subproletos.
3.  Organizacio Administrativa.
4.  Subprojetos.
-Estudos e Pesguisas
-Desemvolvimento de Recursos Humanos (Pais e extericr)
-Consultoria Tecnica
-Recursos Instruccionais
-Mobiliario e Equipamento



-47 -                              ANNFX VI
Page 4 of 5
SENAI
1. Informac6es Gerais sobre o Sistema SENAI
2. Justificativa. Caracteristicas. Estratelias.
3. Desemvolvimento Institucional
4. Recursos Humanos (Pais e Exterior)
5. Consultoria (P-is e Exterior)
6.  Recursos Instruccionais
-Bibliotecas do 20 Grau
-Bibliotecas doe CFPs
-Recursos Didaticos Auxiliares
7.  Desemvolvimento e Melhoria do Sistema (18 subprojetos)
8. Desenvolvimento de Tecnolopia de Ponta (11 subprojetos)
9.  Desenvolvimento Setorial (6 subproletos)
SENAR
1. Informagoes sobre a Formacao Profissional no Pais, Planos de
Desenvolvimento,_Empreio e-Aspectos Economicos e Financeiros
2.  Resumo dos Subprojetos
3. Organizagio Administrativa
4. Estudos e Pesquisas
5. Desenvolvimento do Pessoal no Pais
6. Bolsas de Estudos no Exterior
7   Consultoria Tecnica (Pais e Exterior)
8. Producao de Recursos Instruccionais
9. Reposicao da Frota de Veiculos
FUNDACENTRO
1. Descripcao da FUNDACENTRO
2. Sintese do Projeto
3. Organizagio Administrativa



- 48 -                             ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 5
4.  Estudos e Pesquisas
5. Bolsas do Estudos no Exterior
6. Consultoria (Pais e Exterior)
7. Recursos Instruccionais
8. Eguipamento
9.  Gallagher, Vincent. Proposed Skills Formation Project: FUNDACENTRO
Component, October 10, 1986.
SENAC
1. Documentos de Avaliacao do ProJeto SENAC
-O SENAC c su contexto socio-economico (V')L. I)
-0 ProJecto. Resumo do Documento (VOL. II)
2.  Atendimento
-A Aluda memoria Missio de Preparacao
-As notas do Consultor BIRD (Economico)
3.  Estudos e Pesguisas
4.  Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos
-Treinamento do Pessoal no Pais
-Bolsa de Estudo no Exterior
5. Consultoria Tecnica (Pais e Exterior)
6. Recursos Instruccionais
7. Acoes do DN (equipamento)
8. Construcao, Mobiliario e Equipamento
-Construcoes novas (29 subproJetos)
-Ampliac6es   (8 subproletos)
-So Mobiliario e Equipamento (8 subproje-os)



a.  prafuesimal  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ,~~~~ ,~~~~                             Mdoo~~~nnaI iy                Staff  F
;.  ;;n;%;iel"&i   WtVicn                                               910t0  SR                                                             nfi       I I llU          Staff  p
f. project aditnistrations                                                      SRO                         5 SR                                   s Annual1y  Staff F
Reporti
Kid-Pro
Reporti
A RAZI IL                                                                     - 49-Mtx  i
SKILLS FOVSATION PAISECh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e  1- I  of                           Staf    r
FK, "t ImIrawtr tiv  pAttra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Staff  r
......... ....... . .. _....
OisoticO                                        r-r-                                                  StrateAr                                         Project Csctpoeet                    Rrq.                    s^rpt                   Peacoros                    hIltho  di Pasurcoert                      :BR          CIII          CttP        lIRt 7r11                  Cr92 C17sr52              C            CYr9            Staff
I      OlAUJEI AN  StFORCE AM  OF 1. 1   StrOqtths scrtrdt Bali;c  ee ant                     1.1.1 n 1 Iroer hole  OFf IPO  asa-ruhigc  WeWue    Etallito  re... cd  e          ereip oectito            MIL                Iy Slt/8                                       i d-Project  oines
FEIEStL eIJI          II  POlC            cod towadjatit                                         rrertoctattret  *f ortoat. wAster  L Ic.t
hlMAT I AD 111 IZt T. ATSI[I                                                              1.1.2 Develop traIning policies  to  pIran       . e     e. rot      ltol lt st#lest ct gsdtljvo             rH                Dom                                          Hid-Proiet Rci  !
tWrets                                            sa diocoft s     training reqconibilitie            CO                XiF                                            P-it     t Revi e
1.1.3 Stlarpthosie  osoreidlio        n eheoiwas P      sta IitIo  OFtO toF rcha   e sit aith orsc           PFiO N..                                                        id      t     L                                                                                                                                                                Staff  r
_oljUhal treinsng                                 jwsle  satb   p -posr  woeNa lcnelwt  eta."
Stresqthesceg CFP/EU  rIole  on Csulo . sn            CFKH, StO         tLA.                                         Hid-Protect FPio
CtsselItoatj   of IOfKclscl    otEl-tia               mi.. Eld.                                                                 RStf
1.2  Stnocthse  seetral tehsWocal wspst               1.2.1 Z Strorpthe   tOM  technical uppot f-til. - otchlid   he  di'cdicad wOnoilc Stv e ad bi. k             ML               rBt                                           Htt-1fi7ot    C    *t"
EtcItice, Proeptise o           ri Aetnalr Ireics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a  4
Add    t4   Uto      DI  Re-,h. 2 jn Zrecjg           AeD               By tIlR                                         -r 101e111et   ertoo                                Itti                                                                                                                     RePOrti
Fr-iti No  S in- Iric     It   -     .t
Cproa.tfia   Icr4 ~.nlesbe   ,two toc ojsait,j       g
pqre           o Pr7  ne. fdr7cter  tSso              St                  2                                                 r: Aotactt  Staf   retsrckI tt I osa                                                                                                                                     Ridid-proeot   t  0  0  0  NSf-Pro
.wre                                                                                                                                                      Winj IS stall  s s tti
I.     I owpatatc tAeo-iscoiwdasc                                     24 B                     Coscait I          cStaff  ost. aliliod K Hid-P7rtojt CeoIjo                                  5            7                         o                                                             COapi i a
noprfooss   II                            *gg               16  SsRtt                                   Sal   that  atittuct S Std-pojso  Aenis                       aX           il     0            i       to12       ill          ;20          t2t          122s                    Rprt
Profr   cai tastr atlOE                                                                       ArtI        st     tw  Paths dtttisod  I  to -prstoct PR,nj                      it           72          72           72           72t          I2           72            2                         pcrti
Ir sorlral  rcysosowlep  oaks tKWtf                            By eMW                                      Hid Proicit CWino                                       P110
(MD P10lY STACtFF) Aro  oM   to Ir  
l.2.2  o revo    _vitr o4 tsttiet      mrsicatce      D    irtily S   l tlot espcod   fgot. lotI4  Spote.    W                 lY 31K                                     RoprrIp tr Protect (I-oLutat-re Ca-  tt.sr                            I!^
MebINIM  Itete-qsty CocehwS            itajto             lpoco    OpPI2b                                           Ht4oet  ocsi                                                                                                                                                                     Stf
i                     Atbli  -nr-"Ic  tTCP O_tr  t4I*wc-    1IOIbri-9 t. ;r ..:t WuIt.tm  C Omtt                                                                11;11
Esltabve  rroso0  p ritiAtooc  cci owdolio Ir   MPS A *....   By trAC                                                      e   to  rc0ct Ccesutats    lwdo                   fi                                                                                                                      Staff r
shor.v  Crittr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       taf 
pst      Ictasobo.dd        program  thr   /.
jprd r     it ru dellriy cc A200toA   astrF flIt'                                                                  Nlf            tiFS                                                                                                t           ! 
s Z.l IArer tri-irA   tthr4 tceO ora lcta tp trj rain.!Wtd  irepe  SArolrp r  Irial ttOltO                                                                        ro5re   tc potK wpoorCv.                                                                                                                                                     tf
A. tact wrsooc                                                        IP I Aal
C;  secrecaw    lls sltpc r r                                             doffra              heislt             Staff roturcos to post S  tw- prct Aevies 2sk i  r- y  Stf  tim                                                                              a
5. lad   tethnjnwt owocetase                          K stall~~~3             Mo.a. ty         Its/I Horthl  Utliiod I  td-tro  te R Reie
1.2.3 loproe toacejo  anthsobloqij,. K                r K.        sl  "Iwruo  soccln Nsafi oe ioe oe                                                      auat            Sal   ort  tiie   IPl-rtotCot.                                                                                                                                                    tf
WofaIo  s.OvOr. totroash I dccooojvatjow/ll cetII oc I          f coo teosolqee, ad  awi,tw-notf
It li  Are.  aS cecew  tNo2t,                                                                  Ab-uotty           St,/  ret re.d to psot I Mid-protil Coie.                                 lot         tt9           l2i          A7t          4li           tt          310
a.-Isoal  oore/,ogl St off  0 "It, lfire.t                             ,137  tff
cod tad    lt   rAw-at                                                                                       Stall rte   to poct t Ad-Prtot  foiow                                       17           Al           At           3k br52
52 2socq! t K   221    tZ rr ooa  feIs tr tac rl tb71aipe t  CSiKcrsL leorn  lt   tai          bsotlo I  W      Stl  Hoott    it sd   Htd-prteot Ret,                                                    K            t            I            ? 
soatrseetraotmii  aw tootte                SMl  USptolce  to CoroclotU' Cc estte.
2,   SASTREIM   PMlSAN MS       ORFM    2.2    U .l.i.o p4tis     fisratatiss   ....a5s.r.ti   2.t. Z    itteA   role of Ilvetoto r q; rc lgror stne p  cc  StOtw it-O    trS  itt                          Ar5seale.         BNA.
tISLEW TION 2rAlTIES                                                                           do. vetpiep rOVt      otratopin, A prrOnnkm       rWro,rtS      -  of ItaK., als, aair ks  fty                            2t2                                       Wi lc r.ttr  tdrS
T7AINIM  AASOCES                                                                         i.v.l D ... Zeowy odil.t... 5     pwv   trte A            eo  ant lqlo.ot roll Bi        n d  -pae             cie             ces J.. S  9ootlr                          Stt-Prctcc  Poios
coplata_`tia clWassail, S r"eosc ceo..all
2.2   llrcopti. prs-se.       haeft esmace            2.2.1  ScceEU    oplstutroCc  lnopdotctlancotbrlsac  ree,iod OStoHno tik   tape..                                                                       tod   f  th        Capti7ic ett  Ce-sor  I Pid-proteot Ae,ie.
tecraitonat eed trace plceoiog
2.3   Ioprso  -aapcct imppat cyotoc                   D2.3c StrosAthan sapesitv to atlatv ootat U0    Stealf toadog jn data woalpolo tosoeciacsi                   Apassle
HZlmosqoattse   tro t.                             a  ttttl twr                                                                c                 CsRtoottr          Stall rotaro:d to  oo  S  id-Pr'e'It Rse.                                 A3            R           4I          It           ft            AS           2
I, oocececw  folSatnhIpo2 otof                                                                  el:                     rot r to  Not & Ad-rwieet Con.                             a                                   5                  5                   ,
Aoovcstacc on  e.cpe A ago *1 NIO opctpo              isnA.qAoaloSifs-ti    tl~
2.3.2 H-ath. I.-Kh 1111it,             Sta. traol       I  Ise IIl aecicRaso    i                                                        Orull              talSotosltitd-    .-rsnt  oto 
2.2.2 Scrorpttow  resorIl oaaot Or Ital   tracc          sk r1eocarfth  athsdFrksteqdte.t     Aprosiec61                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
a.  o    .a sC amce.    ,fIt atoll                                                            WMcat             Stal a lrseCs   etIri-rto    ot.a to Wi                                                                           ci           03           vI



SILLS FttTIOlt FPl7                                         -  50 -                                                                                                                                                                            AM=    V11
prcject Iwleeaatatcaa fittria
t5ldtl,                                      teeoc                                             lorateor                                      Proccut toapoacol                 E4Nop                  larget              Maru--                     Pe thad 90 necaureunt                   3097       3'99         I09          39          cltl       C392        C2493         294 9        09
i. xstao. ataIn diecpia.atuar                      OgactI,,
a. local neUhaccal a,xictoeaa                                      at sknuIIl-                           Stall Ailth, atilice I   Pcpra ...t tu*e                               5 N O - .                                                    7           1
9. eaptniate OecMacl:^     -- acchao                                 99r                """a''           91.00 roath.f .tiliat 0 iia-traieat Ix,ic.                             0           3                       T      
bEaatlo-    *aalatic oh e- iio                    Aq- -its            Il tunie             A-ruall          *31,t3                                                                                          3           2 S
2.2.3 Etrethe   elac-in  pracesa                  ilboctt-a  I .tdl traelagct 1- clahthlIt         4Aqeaies
t            -cou-ahil it,uetins              d           S p10-l   'well.    uiline   I c
-Otdil~~~~~~~ lFstv  9 -tV-      f  IO           sitnr Ipth-     A
goat oouraee                        379 .0.01             knually          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stall returnd ta east 9 1WiOiOet Senie            99                      It          3            9           I
I. Funrseas Oellanehips                                         21.0                 annually         14 retrnd"v  to pet   m ha-pralet Nenile                                                       S          X            5            1 
c. ta tKIhoct  aseuatuane                                          ..5 tf               ana-aly          StalSthe  Z10100    1 eoe       tviet Peoe                             t           9           t           It        It             t 19
3.   109090E 32019099  SIt4 Y,       3.    9094504nl eevnae 40 Iraiaio  to chli;e  3.1.1 ledetlne truuoie  p.04'  aanten                 C   A  t            I ehaax  oatiatau                                  39.3 09              Me"  " 'lo       Stl  Scth utclce         9,prjt Sante.                                23           25          10           3         3
Carbon acaup.tcoealltoh cutter amatysis  Eqercias   99, loSN              Muln             Mie `41 stuice, ceI..e                                                            25          20          20
90.010920 tF 7191910 P0s9911 3.2 Incres * st.kx"ade qualctr o  trao                                                            l -g  Pree,"  Iid tet trei-ng aelep                               E         5qeriec  AI ci,       Mouall           bev  9 codlu aenlopo *09                                             020          03t         IX          IX         013
at-nial                                     Equip  Aibra                                          ec            1.9.                    Moca-lln        lWA.I 91 ouaa  praoCrI
tranalatcaelonodoctce 90 tracoco      arcala iO e tt9. A9tNA                               MA..l7           PAh   41 uterlclc OrO0d   i clahdaed
Exec.tion I e,-tuate  94 trali--  aheti treua       -ec.,           9.A.                   Mac ally          roOvtiO toita-O    Mcaarnh to.ittoe
attidino
1.2  In-roceeons 1t  phyalol pat                  1.2.1 wlqrae  isctIO  t.a..ieq o ctea              POPa1ll4,ial..hlapat in- q oentera       I         SEOo                S utena              oouall           Ceotera r.adct4d                                                       I                  I           I                 3           2
lofarhio  e-eiog la-artni    a earchpg             A apOci                                                                                                                                     Si           I 
u.  ENII                                                         33 -ater,             Mcal             Cet.r  u01tagl
a. SEAC                                                            95 CeYt              Meutr- y         Cet.,; ciaplted                                                         3                       u                        7           1           7
c. .      sL0tEN7E0                                                 I ue rotullr                          Cact. t ualtY     4 1
2.3.2 Pranito  on radal i^eceLn-                  L-ternrutifblcniehteq     ow  centera              62                 20 centerts           Macall,          Coaler. coeSlet 2                                                                                                        1 t  s  b   7
Procure eoaiaeent fn c   1    1                   tOt EIWZ            30 unit.              MoucllK EM  cpMet  roured                                                               I              2                               325 35 
SEP90               5 coitai             anually          Oqulin Mt anocued                                          1           1                                                             1          7
'. 1.11 ti,Wcl!  ~       ~         tOS                09   S,t                 euin           Ercantpauc It                                                         33          22          33           35         'i
!.3    Ixprace techoucal a.pccrr oo,.,iex         2. 2.1 lonacce analyncoal  qaaoteittlU      l       ............. lrd^eos l s st+f throvhadEhAt 182 cnt o.t afll-  W         AM                Altlrou           I0 th:       l Z5 75   
uaC naelpqncodc atoHqull palyctioos              X to fi cnet .0e coat  tInec   analocc1        9109                                            tEul0
qraecate lollox-ap  accagatoeral aacn  40       a.  Iccat ccOcau                                                  3.379 otal             Moaall,          Cacnia coeEietoh aoltosll retcraci tc pact                           3t5         309         301         390          325         335         3g
training  Hgedaqcqi   lot aoaou-ed tehpeolopo    I.  wranacae lellc pe                                              033 ot               9xalty          3corc  ccrpleth as  analf rrtcr,ch t  oa'                              39         #6           s5          74           72         57           71           2
c.    tacal re,anicaiaxcctaace                                      20 v5               Mauxlly          Stattll  tths utcticd                                                              0    9 .                 t
P. eupatniato tlelsicl aeclsterne                                    905!                Eooaall,         Stall liernlvuttliaeI 1                                                                         7            S          I
c. local tOurN                                                    3,710 dtalI            A ocally         Ccrcc ccoaienot                                                       aes         Sca         559         Ott         53          517         5t3
SE                                             aim orn             J9i                     -n-l             o*-C4to"                                                           571:         573         Z70         270         4zz          Zst         IZZ         153
P  ovr.... .elshp                                                  .190 arall            hoxuattr         tcmc". tOp9td                                                         31          30           27          R9          3           30           30
a. Io tc necc 2at ax aitaaa                                         39. 99               b-           tl  t&mns   utle tK                                                                   3          9             7 5          E
d. eaptniate terh-Ioal aixtele                                       3 N irocallr                         Staff cats uttlieE                                                    i            it           c
FtridtENlh                                     FtmavtERttbei                                               Ar^       wno                                                        126         126         lXt         126          04           Zt          NO          tS
c.  sot technical aaeic000ue                                        2099                 M aally          Stll trooths utilcact                                                  50          u            oI O                                Z            Xt
0. expatriate tooauuat solstoaeC                                      909 crtoualy                         Stalvt" tl ee.nc tlcoe                                                 9                                   3X 2s
a. Ia  caree99.t.Ioato                                                                                     3.'.  Itoalte                                            94          13           20         12          12           94           94          El
n. ..caa . tIhoa   xx,aest                                                               M.ooalr           tl tPOth  utlce                                                                   0           90         31           30          20           It          It
9, eJOa tnote tehla                                                  Nrilac  9359 "       Mec*tlr          ttillr6 eratnuiceds tl                                                            1        l  ItO          0          O
a.  9 cIr                                                          7,003 N raoe.           eAt--llr        toccoc pracuated300                                                              700         lEt        3,0         3,OO N
E. JeEradia,         12,003 tracees          Macalll          Inaiceex qraouanea                                                    400       1,900       2.100       3000        2.000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  ,400 2.00S 0
a. :M ennro                                                      129,000 trac-exo           Isc 1ti        lraioep  graduat od                                                 0an         9000       1,0 tOO       cto        00,300     Z5,000 tOO     occ Z5.000
'. aaon.dirl                                                      P3 ,t0 trainac          tr--allr           rainee  Iraccato                                                 7,, S         ,1    300        7      ,300       OttO         0,0         5,000   1   0,0Ot
4.   vrxia                                                       299 ,00 t rains.         Atnall           lraioet g rduated                                                  3.73           o 1      Z,0 S 03    35,003      9O3      000 4,ON        50.nos      25, 000
a.    rtirdll" ;                                                   3ts tnaicax            Annu;t Ir         riKc   aauacec                                                       7         1.20        L.5         1,1         300,Z        3,000       3.000



- 51 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Traininz of the Vocational Training System Staff
Current Provisions for NVTS Staff Training
1.       Although staff training programs improved significantly under Ln.
1452-BR, inadequately trained personnel still constitute a major constraint
to improving the quality of training, particularly in state-of-the-art
technologies. To date, systematic staff training for professionals is not
undertaken. The training agencies themselves (SENAI, SENAC, SENAR and
FUNDACENTRO) plan and coordinate staff training through specialized
training units under the technical directorate of each agency. In 1985,
agencies provided training for the following numbers/percentages of their
staff:
Agency                   Total        Trained in 1985        S Trained
Ministry of Labor            (2,600) a/           (510)               (20)
SMO/CFMO                        140                  35                25
SENAI                        11,000               1,750                16
SENAC                        6,000                  180                 3
SENAR                        2,000                  735                37
FUNDACENTRO                     200                  48                24
Total                    19,340              2,745                 14
a/  Is not included in the total because this is personnel indirectly
related with vocational training act'vities.
Proposed Staff Training Program
2.       The staff training program for the period 1987-1995 reflects the
staff training needs assessment conducted during project preparation. The
training program has both remedial and developmental objectives; it would:
(i! enhance the capacity of high level staff to design and implement
policies; (ii) enhance managerial capacities in planning, coordination and
monitoring of training activities; (iii) improve technical and pedagogical
capacity of training specialists and workshop and laboratory instructors to
utilize the qualitative labor market analyses; (iv) meet staff training
needs as a result of the emerging skills requirements in the labor market;
and (v) enhance employers' and workers' knowledge of training



- 52 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5
opportunities, as well as their planning and implementing of training
programs.  Over the 8-year period the training program is expected to
involve about 1190   1 persons, or about 572 of the staff, of the MOL and
the agencies. It is expected to provide one training course every two
years for each staff representing about 43,640 training opportunities over
the 8-year period. A major focus of the program will be training about 750
now instructors (SENAI, SENAC and SENAR) and retraining about 5,480
instructors (all agencies). In addition, 3,080 officials of the Ministry
of Labor and employer and worker organizations would receive training.2
Attachments 1 and 2 show the number of staff to be trained by category and
the number of fellowships to be granted in each agency, respectively.
3.       Content of training.  Courses have been defined according to the
specific requirements of each agency. About 802 of the program would be
implemented using the training agencies' own schomes. The remaining 202
would be contracted with universities, private training agencies, and
international organizations. The list of courses and number of
participants from each agency was prepared by the Government and is
available in the project files.
4.       Components and Cost.  To implement the training program, financing
would be provided under the proposed loan for: (i) participant per diem;
(ii) participant transportation; (iii) external instructors fees;
(iv) training materials; (v) enrollment or matriculation fees; (vi) cost of
courses to be contracted with external agencies; (vii) books; and
(viii) insurance. The total base cost has been estimated at US$18.8
million. The average cost by'participant amounts to US$1,346, or US$404
per training opportunity. Detailed costs by agency are shown in
Attachment 3.
1/ 10,910 in training courses and 1,100 in fellowships abroad.
2/ Of this, about 2,080 would be in the Ministry of Labor and 1,000 would
be from employer and worker organizations.



- S3 -
aM  VII I
Page S of 5
Attachment 1
SKILLS FORMATION PjOJZCT
A.  SuarM r of Staff Trainina ProargM
Agency       Total       HIP    OA    V.T.S.        S        $      CD      A        LR
MTI            3,080         60     --      --        --        --    --        --   3,020
SMO/CFMO         100        60      20      10                                  10
SENAI          2,751       412    110    138          74    1,743    92       182
SENAC          4,160       SOO    150    100         100    3,000   130        180
SENAR          3,062       680    125    132          94    1,150    81       800
FUNDACENTRO      844        56      56               280       340    S6       56
Total       13,997    1,768    461    380          548    6,233   359   1,228   3,020
a/  Including 1,000 entrepreneurs and trade union organization representatives.
M/P:  Management and Planning
OAt Occupational Analysis
VTS:  Vocational Training Specialist
S:  Instructors
CD: Centers and Programs Directors
A:  Administrative
LR: Labor Relations and Training
B. Tentative Schedule of Implementation
Total
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Staff
MTB/SMO/CFMO    --    318   636   636   477   477   318   318    --  3,180
SENAI            --    330   413   413   440   385   385   385    --  2,751
SENAC            --    500   624   624   666   582   582   582    --  4,160
SENAR           153    612   612   306   306   461   306   153   153  3,062
FUNDACENTRO      44    126   126   126   126    84    84    84    44    844
Total         197  1,886 2,411 2,105 2,015 1,989 1,675 1,522   197 13,997



- 54 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Summary of Fellowships Programs
Staff-          Tentative Schedule (in Number of Staff)               Total
Months   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Staff
SMO a/           308        --    25    50    50    36    35    25    25    --    246
SENAI          1,139        --    61    72    72    89    79    78    78    28    557
SENAC            420       --    25    31    31    33    30    30    30    --    210
SENAR             124       --     9      9      9     9      9      6     6      3     60
FUNDACENTRO        27              2      2      2     1      1      1    --    -         9
Total        2,018       --   122   164   16L   168   154   140   139    31  1,082
a/  Including 221 staff of the Ministry of Labor, enterprises and trade union
organizations.



- 55 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 5
Attachment 3
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Cost of Staff Training Programs
1USs0ooo)
A.   Internal Training
Component               NTb       SWOUMF    Sub-total    SENAI           SENAC        SENW     Fundaerntro    TOTAL
--- ---          -- --- ----                                        -- - - -       - -
1. Per dies                 450          140         590        3,164        1,967        4,900         525       11,146
2. Transportition           6b           128          196         525          375          525         312        !,933
3. Fetes  external           95          179          274         735          525          735          439       2,707
instructors)
4. Materials                 27           50           77         210          150          210          125         772
5. Contract with             80          153          233         630          450          630         375        2,318
external sources
:.  TOTAL                   720          650        1,370       5,264        3,467        7,000        1,775      18,876
9. Fellowships Abroad
MTb/SNO/CFfO    SENAI        SENAC        SENAR    Fundacentro    TOTAL
I  Per dies                            1,017       3,750        1,3d6          409           89       6,658
2. Transportation                        541        1,225         462          132           20       2,380
3  Inscrip. frog fees                     25           56          21            6            1          109
4. Books                                  25           56          21            6            1          109
5. Insurance                               6           IS           5            2                       29
6. TOTAL                               1,614       5,1!0        1,995          554          111       9,284



- 56 -
ANMZ IS
Pasg 1 of 1
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Sumarv of Technical Assistance  ProfessionalServices
and Pro1ict Administration Requirements
(In staff months)
Total
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995   SIM
A. Local
SMO
Technical
Assistance        6      6      5     1                                       18
Professional
Services         60   120   120   120   120   120   120   120    60    960
Project
Administration  30    72    72    72    72    72    72    72    36    570
SENAI             --      6      9     4      4     1                          24
SENAC             --   158   303   104    97    28                            690
SENAR             --      5      5     5      5     3      2                   25
FUNDACENTRO       --     31    41    41    31    21    21    11    10    207
Total           96   398   555   347   329   245   215   203   106  2,494
B. Foreign
SMO               --      5    19    19    19   19.0   10         5    --   96.0
SENAI             --    16    32    11    10    1.0   --    --    --   70.0
SENAC             --    12    23       8      7    1.5   --    --    --   51.5
SENAR             --      4      4     4      4    2.0    2    --    --   20.0
FUNDACENTRO       --    14    14    10        9   --7.0
Total                  51    92    52    49   23.5   12        5         284.5



AMEX X
P.. 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Proiect Inputs by Agency and Component
C OM  P O N E N T   1                                       C OM  P O N E N T   2
Technical Assistance (SM)       Trrnins         StTdi       Technical Assistance KSIM        Training
Local       Foreign       No o Staff       (Arsea of        Local       Foreign       No. of Staff
Agency                Consultants  Consultants    Local   Abroad     Studdvy  /    Consultants  Consultants    Local   Abroad         Studie_ V
CFUO/SMO                1, U /         96        8,1 9/  240 8/ Policy, train-
ing develop-
went and
financing
SENAI                                                                                              24            370    56      Labor market
teckeol.gical
changee, ceet
ben  ito an
planning
SENAC                                                                                 143.S        12.6          468     of     Training
etratei-es,
orailztieon,
ttring
effect ivenee and
ct
SENAR                                                                                  19                        262      s     Medium term plan,
meniterig eytm,
evaluatio sa
coots
FUNDACENThO                                                                             6                                 2      Devel-mmt
teckelgilcal
b         ad
LOt.  IInevt
Tcni ca  Assistance
Local                 1,540                                                         169.5
For;ign                              96                                                          86.5
Training
Local                                          8,136                                                         1,673
Abroad                                                   246                                                            97



ANEX X
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Project Inputs by Agency and Component
C O L P O     N E N T   3
Technical Asseistnce (S/MI       Traini4ng~                             Equijpmnt for   Occup tional Anal"is
Local       Foreign       (No  of Staff)     Number of Centers      Mobile Units          Number of
Agency                Consultants  Consultants    Local   Abroad  Ne Remodel (d Equpd  (No. of Units) Occupations   dedulee
CFMO/SMO
SENAI                    24              46        2,376    562                       33            6              26         299
SENAC                   6406.            39        3,710      180    29      8        46           21              35         225
SENAR                    1S             1i         2,610      Be                                                   26         175
FUNDACENTRO             201              47          844       7                       1           182             10          60
T,ot  In Input                                                                                                                           Total 
T 1  ;o  Ass i tancez
Local                 7866.                                                                                                          2,494
Foreign                               16                                                                                               284.6
Training
Local                                            9,739                                                                              13,997
Abroad                                                     739                                                                       1,982
Training Centers
Now                                                                29                                                                   29
Remodelled                                                                 8 S
Equipped                                                                            79                                                 79
Equi pmnt for
Mobile Units
Number of:
Occupations                                                                                                      96                     96
Modules                                                                                                                                6
J List of specific subjects available in project fil-.
;J  Brood subjects are indicated in Annex XI, Irstitutional Devolopment.
V   Including 980 staff months for professional services and 579 staff months for project administration.
4/  Including 2,990  staff of tho Ministry of Labor and 1,099  entrepreneurs and represetatives from trde  union organizations.
J  Including 221 staff of the Ministry of Labor, enterprises and trade union organizations
6/  Including vohiclee.



- 59 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Institutional Development and the Proposed Prolect'
Introduction
1.       The institutional development objectives of the proposed project
encompass the broader institutional development goals and strategies for
the vocational training system. The main objectives are to support
improvements in the development and execuition of vocational training
policies and in the overall effectiveness of management of the vocational
training system. These objectives will be pursued through measures
designed to improve policy management, coordination and technical support
at the central level, and to strengthen policy implementation,
institutional analysis and program development and management practices in
the training agencies, including FUNDACENTRO. Institutional development
objectives, measures, and implementation schedules are contained in
individual plans of action (see Attachments 1 to 4). A mid-project review
(detaijed in Annex XIX, para. 7), based largely on the action plans, will
be conducted to monitor progress ir the achievesment of institutional
development objectives.
Strengthening Central Policy Management and Coordination
2.       To support improvements in the responsiveness of training to
demand, the policy guidance capabilities of the CFMO will be strengthened.
The policies for vocational training (para. 3, Annex IV) will be translated
into working plans and targets for manpower training by the CFMO and
monitored against employment demand on a regular basis. The membership of
the CFMO will also be revised to increase representation from the private
sector and labor. The related coordination function of the CFMO will be
improved through the introduction of procedures for regular interchange
with relevant outside agencies.
3.       In addition, processing tasks carried out by CFMO staff will be
simplified, computerized and shifted to the SMO. The CFMO is also
considering transferring a small number of its staff to the SMO to reduce
redundancy and to enable a smooth takeover of processing tasks. SMO has
issued a statement of national policies for the proposed project. Under
the project, Government has agreed to revise the composition of the CFMO
and to transfer central processing tasks from the CFMO to the SMO by
August 31, 1987.
1/ Most of the project components described here assist with the
strengthening of institutional capacity (Components I and II of the
Project). Paragraph 10, however, refers to measures that also affect
the quality and relevance of training programs (Component III).



-60 -                            ANNEX XI
Pag 2 of 5
Im.)rovint Central Tgchnical Suivort
Strengthening the SMO Structure and Staff
4.       To strengthen the SMO support capacity, a revised structure will
be established. The SMO will comprise three main divisions for
information, studies and evaluations promotion and planning of vocational
training; and communication and computerization.  The new SMO organization
and task priorities will be reinforced by the addition of about ten
professional staff (960 staff months) to be financed under the project.
Included will be two economists, two research specialists, a training
evaluator, two vocational trainers, a statistician, and two
documentation/information system specialists. In addition, existing SMO
staff will be strengthened through local courses and overseas fellowships
(100 staff locally and 25 staff overseas), and through provision of
consultant services (18 SM local and 96 SM foreign) in the priority task
areas. The MOL has agreed to appoint the new staff to the SMO by October
31, 1987 and to establish (by Ministerial Decree) the revised SMO structure
by August 31, 1987.
Improvin_ Technical Services
5.       Manazement Information.  To enhance analysis of policy and program
effectiveness, the SMO will develop an integrated information system. The
existing training informatio- 'ise will be expanded to include information
on employment and pay, enterprise statistics, and training costs and
financing. Revised criteria and guidelines for reporting and analyzing
information will be developed in collaboration with the training agencies.
6.       Coordination of Studies and Research.  To strengthen policy and
program-related research and studies, a research committee will be
established by the SMO by September 30, 1987.  The Research Committee will
be chaired by the Secretary of the SMO, who will also represent the CFMO,
and include representatives of SENAI, SENAC, SENAR, FUNDACENTRO, the CNRH
and the Employment and Salary Secretariat of the MOL. It will also draw on
outside expertise (e.g., from universities, labor unions, enterprises) as
appropriate. The Comittee will coordinate, review and approve all
research proposed by the CFMO/SMO and t1e training agencies which exceeds
US$ 50,000 equivalent in estimated cost. (Studies of limited scope, e.g.,
those designed to assess and update specific courses, will generally be
exempt from the approval process.) Other criteria for the approval of
studies and research by the Comittee are currently being developed by the
SMO. In general, studies are expected to fall within six priority areas
related to training: costs and financing; the labor market; the informal
sector; the role of firms and labor; advanced technologies; and youth and
pre-employment training. Guidelines will also be eatablished to set norms
for average costs of studies and to ensure the feasibility of execution.
7.       The responsibility for management of policy studies and research
will rest with the SMO and the training agencies.  Within the SM0, this
responsibility will be consolidated in a small core of competent staff
(about five) in the relevant division. Key staff from the studies unit of



- 61 -                           ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 5
the CFMO will be relocated there to eliminate overlap. These staff will
commission and manage, and selectively participate in, studies of relevance
for the CFMO, which will be financed under the project. The SMO will
establish the inter-agency Research Committee by September 30, 1987. The
guidelines and criteria for approval of research and atudies and draft
terms of reference for a series of studies on cost-effectiveness and
alternatives for the future financing of vocational training will also be
completed by September 30, 1987.
8.       Plannint. Monitorina and Evaluation.  The results of improved
information analysis and studies will form the basis for strengthening the
decentralized planning of training and the monitoring and evaluation of
system performance. In cooperation with the training agencies, the SMO
will develop and introduce guidelines for planning by the training
agencies. The guidelines will reflect prevailing policies and training
targets set by the CFMO. They will call for annual as well as medium-term
planning and programming and for regular reporting. The SMO will further
be responsible for coordinating the monitoring and evaluation of training
in accordance with agreed guidelines and will report periodically on global
results. It will also monitor the policy directives of the CFMO and help
to identify issues for further study or in-depth evaluations. The project
will provide financing fort selected evaluations to be carried out by the
SMO (with Research Committee approval), a training program for about 40
staff (25 locally and 15 overseas) in economic planning and evaluation for
vocational training, and 12 SM of local and 36 SM of foreign technical
assistance and 240 SM of professional services.
9.       Promotion of Training.  To contribute to improvements in training
quality, effectivenoss and coverage, the SMO will support innovative
training programs proposed by the training agencies. It will also promote
the use of new or improved training methods and experimental approaches to
training and training delivery, including in-plant training. The SMO will
further introduce orientation seminars on the training system for
interested or potential client groups. Procedures for disseminating
training information to external agencies and the general public will also
be improved. In addition to disseminating information within the training
system, the Division for Technical Comunication will establish a program
to produce and distribute special journals, bulletins, and course catalogs
for use by the training agencies and external entities. it will prepare
reference materials on vocational training in Brazil and publications which
draw on outside data, e.g., the RAIC annual reports on labor market trends.
As part of the effort to strengthen the use of existing information, the
SMO further plans to support the development of regional information and
documentation centers of the MOL. The project includes financing for local
and overseas training (8 and 10 staff, respectively), for local and foreign
techninal assistance (6 SM and 36 respectively) and professional services
for 360 SM to strengthen 8MO staff in training preparation and
implementation activities.
10.      Within the context of improved treining promotion and outreach,
the project will make a direct contribution to quality and relevance of
training programs. The project will provide financing to develop innovative
instructional methods and materials (including financing for audio visual
materials and related production equipment). About 57 staff of the MOL and
the training agencies, as well as about 1,000 entrepreneurs and union



- 62 -                           ANNWU XI
Page 4 of 5
leaders (nearly 3,080 persons in total) will receive training in such areas
as labor relations, outroach methods for unemployed youth, implementation
of graduate follow-up, occupational analysis and occupational safety. The
project will further provide consultant services (24 man-months foreign) to
assist with development of a support strategy to encourage increased
private sector involvement in the provision of training, especially of
small and medium-size firms, and of the reference material, on vocational
training in Brazil, together with 360 SM of professional services.
Strengthening Policy and Proxram Implementation
Improving Policy Formulation and ManaQement
11.      Based on the national policy statement to be issued by the CFMO,
the training agencies will prepare detailed policies and implementation
strategies to guide the planning and monitoring of training programs over
the medium-term.  Initial strategies will be developed by mid-1989 and
revised and translated into plans and programs by mid-1990.  These plans
will form an important basis for the mid-project review (see Annex XIX).
Background review required to support work on policy and strategy
development will be financed under the project.  In addition, each agency
plans to increase the role of labor and private enterprises on its policy
council and to take steps to strengthen interchange with outside agencies
concerned labor and employment. (SENAI, for example, plans to strengthen
linkages with science and technology agencies and with industrial firms.)
Strengthening Structures and Staff
12.      To effectively adapt to changing requirements, the training
agencies will strengthen processes for organizational and staff review.
SENAI has begun to develop a continuous process to review organizational
structure, functions and levels of authority. This process will serve to
identify new needs and to form the basis for a related staff inventory,
recruitment and career planning system. SENAC is preparing a similar
system for introduction in 1989, and FUNDACENTRO has identified medium-term
requirements for a general staff expansion. Analytical reviews undertaken
to support development of organizational and staffing assessment procedures
will be financed through the project.
13.      SENAR's main organizational objective is to modify the legal
structure of the agency to increase administrative and financial autonomy
and to support related recruitment and expansion of competent staff. If
the proposed foundation is approved by the Minister of Labor, the
conversion process will entail several further steps culminating in the
approval by the President and the Congress. The establishment of a legal
structure for SENAR, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the proposed project.
Improving Managewenc Support
14.      Management Information.  The collection and analysis of
information related to training will be further developed by the training
agencies as part of the integrated system to be established by the SMO.
Priority will be given to analysis of information on training costs



- 63 -
ANNEX XI
Page 5 of 5
(including developmental, equipment and indirect costs), on employment
demand (both SENAI and SENAC have tracer systems in place and SENAR is
planning to introduce a tracer system), and on alternative arrangements for
delivery (e.g., in own centers, in other training facilities, or in-plant)
and financing of training. Outside data banks will be tapped. Through
FUNDACENTRO, data on worker safety and health will also be incorporated. A
further effort will be made to track data on courses mounted by firms with
assistance from the training agencies. The project includes financing for
consultant services (52 SM local) and for upgrading the skills of 285 staff
locally and 32 through fellowships abroad in the aree of information
management and analysis.
15.      Studies and Research.  The training agencies will also develop
programs of studies and research to support policy and training
development. Most of the studies will be subject to the approval of
the Interagency Research Committee. Studies will be carried out both by
the research staff of the agencies and by outside experts under contract.
Two studies, related to the adaptation of particular courses to
technological changes, have already been initiated by SENAI. Others will
be defined in accordance with priorities during the course of project
implementation. Under the project, consultant services (66.5 SM local and
14.5 SM foreign) and staff training (378 persons locally and 21 persons
overseas) will be provided to strengthen capacities for design and
management of studies and research. Financing will also be provided for a
series of studies to be undertaken by each agency.
16.      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.  The training agencies will
reinforce planning and monitoring functions at the national, regional and
operating levels to further develop the annual and rolling plan systems
loosely in place at present. Capabilities will be strengthened in part
through the development of internal consultancies to be provided by the DNs
(and in the cases of SENAI and SENAC the stronger DRs) to the decentralized
units. Plan targets will reflect policy directives (para. 8). Increased
emphasis will be given to monitoring costs and progress toward policy and
plan targets. In addition, planning, monitoring and evaluation will be
adapted, for reporting and coordination purposes, to guidelines to be set
jointly with the SMO. The studies and research to be carried out by the
training agencies will include evaluations of priority issues identified in
part through monitoring results. The project will provide financing for
consultant services (41 SM local and 24 SM foreign) and for upgrading the
skills of 415 persons locally and 44 persons overseas in the areas of
planning, monitoring and evaluation. Much of the work required to develop
improved planning, monitoring and evaluation practices, as well as improved
information systems, will be preceded by analytical reviews. These reviews
will also be financed under the project.



ANNEX XI
Att a];;;T
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                     Pge 1 of 2
CFMO/SMO - PLAN OF ACTION
Unit
Function/lMeictiv.                      Renponsibl-                                Action/Mossure                              Trget Dat
A. Policy Formulation and ManaeoMent
1. Strengthen existing policies and                    CFMO               - Proper- a draft policy statement for vocational                   da
in_rasectoral coordination                                              training which Include  broad training target  fer the
mediurn-tore.
- Issue the national policy statement for vocational                d
training.
- Rovia. the composition of the CFNO to include                     00/97
incroaed representation of labor and industry (by
Ministerial Decree).
- Asm-a- possibilitiee for improving cooperation with               12/67
other Ministry of Labor end outaide entitiee
involved with manpoeer training and employment, and                        0"
increeee regular Intorchange  nd of ect a_rep;et.
changes.
- Issue guideline  on the division of rpe lbilitiea                 12/06
for training among public sector agencies and between
the public and private sector.
2. Improve the effectiveness of                        CFMO               - Transfer *de;ni;trative tasku prformance by the CFMO              P /07
national policy management                                               (and possibly _arn *taff) to SM.
- Asees and simplify proceesing orocedure. for                      66/87
participation in the training systm with particular
attention to revising procedure under the Fi-eal
Incentives Law.
S. National Technical Supoort
1. Devolop the SMO's organizational                CFMO/SMO               - Restructure the SMO to focus on providing                         "6/6?
capacity to support the vocational                                       system support (by Minis;trial Decree)
training policies and program.                                         - Increase by about 16 the number of experienced                     15/97
SMO staff in the areas of data analysis, studiem
- and ree rch, system monitoring and ovalu tion,
and training prow tion and methods.
- Upgred  existing SMO staff in the same areas.                 10/07 forard
2. Strengthen key *s-vices
a. Improve the collection analysis              SMO/Training           - Develope_nt an integreted inforustion syst   for                   12/67
and dissemination of iaformetion             Agencies                 vocational training, including guideline_ for the
related to training                                                  regular submission of data by the training agencies
(and incorporating data on tr;ainng cost. and
financing, and employment and salaries)
- Introduce the revised information system including                 "3/S6
procedures for dissemination
(Continsued)



ANNEX XI
Attac _et i
Pag 2 of 2
Unit
Functi;nIObi ctive                    R oosible                                 Action/Mosurre                            Tars t Dato
b. Strength.n the ma*nagment design           CFdO/SUO              - Consolidate research *mag.nnt responeibilities in               66/67
and implementation of policy-                                      the SUO and establish a resarch panel and criteria
related r_eerel and studies                                        and guide line  for approving studies to be carried
out by the SUO ad the tralnio9ng   ncies.
SMO/Training         - Carry out priority stedies and r_eareb ae the                so/67 forward
Ageneio_             training  ystm.
SO/Training         - DOvelop, in perticuler, TORs for a series ef studie _9r9
Agencies             on the cotao and fin aeing (Isciuding potential
fineaing) of training to be condected during
1967-39.
c. Strengthen support for the                 1SM/TraIning          - ODe lop and introducre standrd guideline  for                   12/67
decentralized planning of training           Agencies               n I and medium-tom planning sad troining by
the training agencies.
d  bmproew the pr etioe of voeit.AaaI             SbO               - Develop a strste3  for increaing private sector pro-        im  f*rard   "
vision of training and introduce ortentatics progresse e
training and innovativo training                                   vocational training, especially for representaltes
techniques NW cow                                                  e- laber and _l I nd _sdlue-slard firm.
SO              - Proper and disemine  speciel sad periedlc                    im f1*rard
pubtle on training provided throug  the vocetionl
training system and in e_pl rent (making use of
the Ministry of Labors rcgiesl_  lnformatio
casters).
2MG/Training         - Support fftorts to deelop ad  teat iproe d                       Airea
Agencies             training metheds and  _ti.. ruldlwey
e. Strengthen the *ertering and               SM/Training           - Pro,pe  and intredue *ybtewtic geidml im  for                   12/37
evaluation of training                       Agrncies              menitering of training program by training egerles.
SWM/Training         - tabe  oe Information anlysis sad _ nitering rewlte,          16 foruerd
Agencies           conduct or com_issio-   seleced evaluatioe sork eo
trainlog (to be apprveod by the _aserch Pranl).



- 66 -
ANNEX XI
IM-Mchnt 2
Page 1 of 1
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SENAI - PLAN OF ACTION
Function/Obiective                                   Action/Measure                        Target Date
I.  StrengSthn SENAI Policies and            - Develop and put Into effect a statement of               W6/89
Inter-Agency Coordination                 SENAI policlso end lopleontation strategies
for the medlum-term In the context of national
polilels.
- Translate strategelo  into rollino plans                 06/90
- Ases the need to broaden labor and industry              12/87
representation on SENAI's pollcy council and
effect appropriate Change.
- Reinforce procedures to support SENAI Inter-             12/87
change and cooperation with entities concerned
with Industry, related training, labor,
employment and science and technology (e.g.,
STI, MIC, CNPq).
II.  ImProve the DN's CaDecity to             - Develop and introduce proceduro for regular               12/67
Assess Needs for UrGaniZational            roelew of structure, functions and lovels of
and Staffing Adjustments                   authority within SENAI.
- Develop and introduce a related staff                    12/80
lnventory and system for staff planning,
recrultment and career development.
III.  Improve Tochnical Su   rt for
Pollcy and Proirar  IisTlmntation
A. Strengthen the lnformtion,            - Expand the existing Information system to                06/88
related dieseoination, and             include data on employment and training
documentation systems mnaged           costs and financing (through use of SENAI
by DN                                  data and outside data banks)'
-Introduce revised date analysis techniques                "6/88
(to Include analysis of costs, cost-
effectivenoss and training demand).
- Establish a central archive and documentation            199n
service for dissemination of Information and
results of studies for use within SENAI and
outside.
8. Improve the DN's capacity to          - Undertake or coamiselon priority studies             1967 forward
manage policy and program-              In accordance with guidelines and criteria
related studies and resserch           set by the CFMO/SMO.
C. Strengthen SENAI'. planning           - Assess the need to relnforce the planning                98/87
and programing                         structure and staff for SENAI training and
effect resulting recommendations.
- Dovelop and expand lnternal consultancy              08/07 forward
services of the DN to strengthen planning
at the regional and operating levols.
D. Improve monitoring and                - Further develop procedures for regular                    11/88
evaluation of SENAI programs           monitoring of training effectiveness.
- Develop the Internal consultancy serviess            01/8U  forward
of the DN to support improved monitoring
at the rogional and operating levels.
- Identify selected topics for, and conduct,           06/87 forward
in-depth evaluations related to SENAI's
training.



- 67 -
Mei  nt S
Page 1 of 1
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SENAC - PLAN OP ACTION
Function/ObWoct1vo                                   Action/Measur                         Target Dot
I.  Stronathen SENAC Policies and            - Dovelop and introdueo a stateomnt of SENAC                06/89
Inter-Anency Coordination                  policies and implomentation strategies
for the mdilum-term In tho context of national
polices.
- Translate strategies Into rolling plans.                 06/90
- Assess the need to broaden labor and comme rce           12/87
represntation on SENAC's policy council and
effect appropriate changes.
- Reinforce procedures to support SENAC                    12/87
cooperation and interchange with entities
coneorned with co mmerc, related training,
labor, amploymnt and use of advanced
technologies in the commerce  etor.
II.  Improve the DN's Capacity to             - Completed and the development and introduction            12/89
Assooe  Needo for Organizational           of procedures for regular roview of structure,
an Stffin Ad]ustent                        functions and staffing within SENAC.
III.  Imorove Tchnicsl Suooort for
Poiicy and Promr Impl;.  ntation
A. Strongthen the Information,           - Expand tho existing information system  to               06/SO
rolated dissominatlon, and              include data on employment and training
documentation systoms managed           costs and financing (through use of SENAC
by DN                                  data and outside data banks)
- Introduco additional date analysis techniques            s6/88
(to Include analysis of costs, and cost-
effectiveness of training).
- Further develop the existing documentation                1990
system to Improve dissemination of Information
and roesults of studies for use within SENAC and
outside.
S. Improvo the DN's capacity to          - Undertako  or commission priority studies            1987 forward
manage policy and program-              In accordance with guidelines and criteria
related studios and resoarch           sot by the CFMO/SMO.
C. Strengthen SENAC's planning           - Review the noed to roinforce tho planning                08/87
and programing                         structure and staff for SENAC training and
effect resulting reco mendations.
- Further develop and expand Internal                  08/87 forward
consultancy services of the ON to support
planning at tho regional and operating
levels.
D. Improve monitoring and                - Further develop procedures for regular                   11/86
evaluation of SENAC programs           monitoring of training effectivenoes.
- Develop the internal consultancy service            01/8 forward
of the DN to support Improved monitoring
at the regional and operating levels.
- Idontify solected topics for, and conduct,           96/87 forward
In-depth evaluations related to SENAC's
training.



- 68 -
ANX  XI
AUSIWnt 4
Page 1 of 1
lUNSITUTI L DEVUPINlT
EUNAR - PLAN OF ACTION
Functlenbll8octivo                                  Atlion/M.asur.                       Target DOat
S. Stronst         gm     olileloo and      - Dovelop and introdue an updated statont of              96/89
In__ -A_ Y _ _ ordin_t_ on               Smm  pollces and implementation stratOgie
tor the medium-term In the context of national
pollels.
- Translate strategls Into rolliln  plans.                96/W
- Asse the need to broaden labor, _ployer                 12/87
and othor representation on SO UIAR  policy
counlIl and offset approprIate chango.
- Reinforoe procedore  to support SEIUA'                  12/87
cooperation and interchange with entitlos
conoerned with rural labor, employment and
training.
II. Strengthen _he Structure and             - Rovli  SEUGR's legal structuro to convert It
5taff of Senar                            to a fondatlon:
- obtain approval of tho Ministry of Labor              done
- obtain approvel of the President of the               95/87
Coe mlsion for Administrativo Reform
- submit the proposal for approval by tho               06/87
President
- submlt the proposal for final approval by             07/87
the National Cen;ro
- Impimt the nw staff development plan                94/86 forward
for SEUAR (for recrultment and upgrading).
III. Improve Technical Suoort for
Policy ond Program Iml _etation
A. Strenghn th  informstloe,            - Expend tho existing Information systemo to              06/88
rolted dissomintlon, and               include data on rural employmnt and training
documentation systems mnaged           costa and financing.
by the DN                           - Introduce syst emtic practices for data                  12/88
analysis, including analysls of training
cost. and cost-efectiveness.
- Rinforce the docum_ntatlon and lnformtion               12/90
dissemination servico of SEUAR for Internal
and oxtornal use.
B. Improve the DN's capclty to          - Undertake or commlislon priority studlis            09/87 forward
mnoag  pollcy and program-             In accordance with guideliln  and criteria
related studies and research          set by the CFMO/SMO.
C. Stren then SENAR's planning         - Develop and Introduce within the  new SENAR              01/88
and progr amm n                       structure an Improved system and procedures
for annual and multi-yer planning.
- Strenogthn the ON pl'"nning capacity to support    01/88 forward
the revised plannina system In the beloaelas
and operating unite.
D. Improve moitoring and                - Doevelop and introdc  systeestic procedur               11/87
evolustlon of SEUA  programs          for monitoring of trolnlng effectiveness
(ineluding cost effectiveess).
- Strengthen the DN's capecity to support the         12/87 forward
monitoring system In the Deleogcias and
operating uIte.
- Identify and carry out selected evaluations         12/87 forward
on SEUGA's performance.



ANNEX XI
Attach _ nt S
Page 1 vf 1
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FUNDACENTRO - PLAN OF ACTION
Function/Obi ctive                                   Act;onMesasure                       Target Date
I. Strengthen FUNDACENTRO Plan of           - Develop and put into effect an implementing              12/88
Action and Intor-Agency                strategy for the medium-term in the context of
Coordination,                          national policy.
- Translate strategies into rolling plan.                  O6/89
- Reinforce procedures to support FUNDACENTRO              12/88
interchange and cooperation with entities
concerned with occupational safety, formal
formal education, related training, trade
union, employers organization and universities
(studies and research).
II.  Improve FUNDACENTRO Capacity            - Introduce procedures for regular review of            1968 forward
to Assess the Need of                  FUNDACENTRO structure, functions and levels
Organizat:onal and Staffing            of authority.
- Devolop and introduce a related staff inventory         06/87
and system for staff planning, recruitment, job
evaluation, salaries and caroer development.
III. Improve Technical Support for
Program Implementation.
A. Strengthem the information,          - Aeoss the information system and related                  12/S7
related dissemination and              activities and Introduce tbo necess-ry changes.
documeatatio  *ys etsm
- Introduce data analysis techniquoe for               19S6 forward
systematic *valuation of FUNDACENTRO activitie.
- Expand the existing information system given             96/88
priority to data n ds in technical aspects.
B. Improve monitoring and               - Introduce procedures for regular evaluation and    1989 forward
evaluation o  FUNDACENTRO              monitoring of FUNDACENTRO training prograss
programs.                              with particular emphasis in the analysis of
cost-benefits.
C. Reformat FUNDACENTRO system          - Assess th- need to reinforce the planning                 12/87
for planning and programming.          structure and define priority areas at
national and local levels.
- Introduco procedures for control                        so/88
and evaluation of the results of the training
programs.



AINEX XII
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Annual Output from Proiect Institution, by Sectors
(1995)
Total 
S * c t o r a                                  T o t a I a                             l proving
Institutions      Priry          condry    Tertiary    All Sector    Job Entry    Uparadino    Overall    Expnsion          Quaity
1. SENAI                             18.897                                    6.924       11.973      18.897       18.897
1.1  Centers                         17,698                                    6,924       11,754      17,678       17,678
1.2  Mobile Actions     1,219                                                               1,219       1,219        1,219
2.  SENAC                                        202.836                     128.418       74.417     262.836      292.1161
2.1  Centers                                     197,667                     128,418       69,149     197,687      197,6 7
2.2  Mobilo Actions                                6,268                                    5,268       5,268        5,268
3.  SENAR             248.498                                                             248.49J     248.49         8.490       24_._
3.1  Mobile Actions   248,498                                                             248,496     248,498        8,498       u4,mi;
4.  FUNDACENTRO                                                 12,891                     12.          12.8JJ           -        12.81
4.1  Conter.                                                       664                        664          564           -        12,in
4.2  In-Plant Training                                          12,236                     12,236       12,286           -        12,899
TOTAL:          24849J         18.897      22.836         12.M8O       1J6.U42      U47.6       483.J22      23J.22       2C2.89



- 71 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Proiect Enrollment and Outputs When FullY Operational in 1995
Annual Output
Total            Job Entry            Upgrading
Institutions   Enrollment   Adults Apprenticeship    Courses    Total
1.  SENAI a/         20,408      4,670          2,254        11,973   18,897
1.1 Centers           19,092     4,670          2,254        10,754   17,678
1.2 Mobile Program   1,316                                    1,219    1,219
2.  SENAC  b/       231,019   128,28S             129        74,417  202,835
2.1 Centers         225,019   128,289             129        69,149  197,567
2.2 Mobile Program   6,000                                    5,268    5,268
3.  SENAR c/        251,000                                 248,490  248,490
3.1 Mobile Program 251,000                                  248,490  248,490
4.  FUNDACENTRO d/  12.930                                   12,800   12,800
4.1 Centers              570                                    564       564
4.2 In Plant
Training        12,360                                  12,236   12,236
TOTAL        515,357   132,959          2,383       347,680  483,022
a/  Ass:rnn.g 1985 SENAI dropout rate 7.4%.
b/ Assuming 1985 SENAC dropout rate 12.2%.
c/ Assuming 1985 SENAR dropout rate 1%.
d/ Assuming 1985 FUNDACENTRO dropout rate 1%,



- 72 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of I
IMZIL
SKILLS FOTIU  PROJECT
.................................... 
Susry ol ProJect Costs al
(US  I * cS 13.64) b/                               2 of
Total
hu    I
Components                    Local    ForeigN     Total                Locil  Foreign       Total      Cost    Foreilg
(C  '000                                  (11$ 1'000)
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
....................
1. Studin and Research          113,047     3,mI   114,95                  6,I&         22      I,450         &          3
2  Local Staff Training         241,249          0   261,249               18,176          0    l1I,74         13         0
3. Follouhips Abroad             25,9"     102,79    123,497                1,67       7,420     9,235         I         0
4. Local Consultants             43,09           0    43,05                 4,55           0     4,554         3          0
-  Foreign Consultants                0     31,922    31,922                    0      2,307     2,307         2        100
6. Professional Servicn          33,347          0    33,347                2,410          0     2,410         2          0
3. INVESTMENTS COSTS
1. Civil Works                  220,014     24,444   244,440               15,87       1,7"    17,463         13         10
2. Equipent                     333,924    220,448   554,372               24,127    15,921    4,054          28         40
3. Vehicles                     102,241          0   At,241                 7,36.          0     7,369         5          0
4. Furniture                     40,477     13,727    54,204                2,925       `92      3,917         3         25
S. Instructional Material       14,971      85,692   252,649               12,045      4,192    13,25          13        34
C. PROJECT MANIENENT.
............................ ,
1. SubproJKcts Adinistration    3,114            0    93,146                4,730          0     4,730         5          0
2. Project Aduinistration        10,905          0    10,905                  788          0       M            I         0
,......................... ............. ...........   ......   ...........  .......    ........ ...   ..... ..
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS         1,44,107    462,932 1,947,039.              105,7M      34,194   140,42         100        25
Physical Contingencies        93,011     27,140   120,171                4,720      1,942     3,463         4         23
Price Contingencies          161,56      53,559   235,127               13,119    35,70    14,m3           12         23
......... ....... ..... ....... ............. ................_.... ..... .............. .
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          1,738,4t3    563,451 2,302,336              125,423    40,724   144,354        118         24
1"64    987   1988   198    1"0   1991   1992   1993   1994   19"
........ ... ........ ... ........ .....    .... ......   .... ......    ....   ---- . ---  -.    -
Local Inflation       122    31      12     12     12    3.52   3.52   3.51   3.52   3.51
Foreign Inflation     122    32      12     12     12    3.51   3.52   3.51   3.52   3.52
.____________*_._ _ t----------i
a/ Amounts may not add uop du to rounding.
b/ Base costs and exchange rato as of Septe2ber, 1986.



MAlL
SKILLS FO1TIU PIOECT
Projict Cti bY Apcy a4 CAtuWy 2/
W, 000l
SECETMIA i  K SOM                     SEW                          SEEC                         KiM                       FtOIENI                          TTAL
C_"ata                      LKtel   Foroap      Total    LcK!   Froiip       Tatel    Lacal  Feroiga    Total    LKcal  Frtip          Toteal     cal  Fvrop        Totel    Lcal  Fur i"        Tat
A. TEWCIFIUSI STICE
1. Studios aid INomu           2,006          0    2,0W0    2,910                2,910    2,535       23      2,117      2060               206       457         0      457    I,2s         32      ,45
2. LI  Saff Tramiel             1,370         0    I 370    5,264                5,24    3,467          0    3,467    7,00                 7,000    1,775         0     I,775    1,17I      106
3. Fo!Ieuo;p. Abroad             323      1,291    ,114H     1,172    4,0U       5,110      379    1,511      I,66A      III       4413     34         22        39       III     ,057     I,m      9.3
4. Local Cuoultants               I1          0      1,1       122!        0        21    3,491         0    3,410       127         0       127      753         0      71      4,36          0    4,3
.Fwail CoeLtiate                   0        Ct4       e54        0       541       541        0       372       37         0       165       165                375      35          0    2,307      2,
6.ProoiaUm  Sarvcn              1,173         o    1,173         0         0         0    1,231         0    1,231         0         0                  0         t              2,410               2,410
3. ISTITIS COSTS
1. Civil  miks                     I          0        0         0         0        0   15,"7       1,7"    17,61          0         0        0         O             0         15,39      2,76     17,"  I
2. Eipipt                        491        210       702   14,136    L1,6"    21,034     9,217     2,435    11,t52        0         0        0       34      1,364     I,6     24,127    11i,9     46,3
3. Vdaclos                         0          0         0        0         S         0        0         0         0    7,309         0     I,090M                 0              7,339         0    734R
I F matwe                        552          *      552       615       04      1,490    1,13        100     1,75         0         0        0         0         0        0    2,9n5         2      3,917
5. lstractial Nlatrial           a         79        04    1,735    2,G0        3,771    I,m         470    2,350    6,175      2,144    3,321     2,127       243    2,430    12,06      1,1I2      26,
C. UECT   UEIEUT
1    ejKtt hq  1111t110trati.1   4l "I        0      4"      2,3*                2,340    2,340              2,340    1,210          0    1,210       300         0      3e      6,730         O    6,7n
2 Project uaizistratiom          731          0       7                                                                     0  0              0 I      3 6       0                  30
TTAL  MINEK CsTS               7,315     3,152    10,461    23,213    19,U30    47,U1    42,129    7,029   4,135   22,210    3,234   25,473    5,31    2,01    7,954   105,70    34,34    46,12
hYsitAle COtaageaic*           40        20         19     1517       m       z,563    3,203       472    3,175      1,120      171    1,29        354       123       477    1,7n      1,912     0U3
Price Cmtiobecius             9          40e     1,330    3,052     1,55    47    5,706          1,6!       ,70     2,65        427    3,077       75i       IV       9       13,119    3,6*    16,W
TOTAL UECT COSTS               3,734     3,752   12,416   32,03    22,213   55,101    52,0"        1,502   59,542   25,9        3,052    29,W      6,976    2,401    9,3    125,13    40,726  21,356
1 of Total Project Cout                           7.51                         3.11                        35.1Q                        17."                          5.                         10".
9/   Coetructioa costa ore Baseda  contract for sini Bar structureg  as" umder Project 14S2-M  ad estimted at US21  a  sq.*. ad
la  of the building cost far etermel worts.  Equipment, furniture, an  instructioas material ceote are besd on liat prices in
accord-e with recent quetatiesa an  last bida received en Project 146241.  Expatriate coseltin  services are estimated at
U    .m pW r a tff-seet  plue S1O203 for travel.  Local cenultnts services are estimated at USM651  per sff-_mo                         ad
fellow"ips abroad at $,W stff-ma              plusm US2,   -fr travel and IS122C  for beeks, insreac  a* fe".  Euchano ret:  USSI
s 13.4 Crusades.
!f   Salaries for was So staff to be financad under the le.  n a declining scalo (1i0  for yetar  1-8 stertiag Jun    * I7; 75* for                              X
year 4;  W f-or years 6-6; ad 253 for year* 1 ad thereofter.



;eGO   f J
BRAZ I L
SKILLS FOR1ATION PR0JECT
s84AC Coat. of Civil Works. Furnituro. Eoau.apt  and Adminiatratior
Annu.al    Area of                                     ProfC.t.   in Crwz*#Q&
Enrolli   Construc-   Conatruc-  External              *ional                                       Admin-              Cost in
C.tv             SLat.           ment      tion *2      tion       Works    Subtotal  Service.  Furnituro Ej j _nt Suat.t.  i-rti                Tmtl I
Now Conotruction (29)
3.02  SEcabal          Heranhao           2.175       a66       3,637.2     727.4    4,364.6     306.5      436.6      "1.9     S,66S.5    284.4    5,972.9       4S1.6
3.06  Natal            Rio Grand- N.      6,730      1,555      5,569.0   1.119.6    6.717-6    470.2       671.6      *O6.7    0,756U.      437.0    9,19J.1    664.2
3 06 Campins Crande   Paroib              9,390      1,976    *6952.0   1,830.4  68342.4    564.0           664.2   2,066.3    11,46.2    S92.8    12,436.6 S       f.7
3.07  Petrolina        Pernaa4uco         2.370        690      2,964.5    591.0   3,54S68    246.2        3564.6       6.4    5,0S6.0    251.7        5,216.7    J 2.0
3 10 Tagutineg         0. Federal         3.645      1,721      6,023. 5   1,204.7    7,220.2    506.0      722.6      968.S    9,420.0    471.0    9,091.0    714.7
3.12  bondonoolis      N.to Croeo         3.120        s71      2,909.1     S61.8   3,490.9      244.4      349.1      446.5    4,549.9    227.6    4,77.4    345.k
3.16  Sao Jo" doe
CeGo.            Sao Paulo         11,215      2,653     9,142.2  1,621.4  10,970.6    767.9    1,097.1    2.742.?   16,676.3    776.9     J,37.2   1,t11.0
3.17  Limaire          Sao Paulo         11,216      2,6f3      9,142.2   1,126.4   10,970.6    767.9    1,097.1    1,442.7    14,296.8    714.9    15.,01.2   1,064.6
3.18  Jund;i           Sao Paulo         11.215      2,683      9,142.2   1,826.4   10,970.6    767.9   1,097.1    1,482.7    14,296.3    714.9    5,01.8.2   1,014.J
S.19  Itaq"an-         Sao Paulo         11,215      2,663      9,142.2   1,823.4   10,970.6    767.9    1,097.1    1,462.7    14,296.3    714.9    15,01U.2   1,064.0
3.20  Lap              Sao Paulo         11,215      24,63      9,142.2   1,826.4  10,970.6    767.9   1,097.1   2,742.7    16,57.3    77.6.   16,357.2   1,131.9
3.21  Oa- co           Seo Paulo         11,215      2,6 83     9,142.2   1,826.4  10,970.6    767.9    1,007.1    2,742.7    16.5576.8    778.9    16,667.2   1,131.91
3.26  iblo torizonte   Nina Cerais        6,s50      3,269     16,016.1    600.9   16,619.0   1,177.3    1,2J1.4   2,662.9    21,140.6   1,092.0   62,922.1   1,S67.0
3.29  Varginks         t4noo CGrais       3,246      1,296      4,144.0    826.8   4,972.8    346.1         497.8   1,243.2      7,061.4     3n. 1     7,414.5    S68.7
3.30  ivinopolia      Nina. CGrais       S,246      1,295      4,144.0    62.6   4,972.6    3S4.1          497.3    1,243.2     7,061.4    8S6.1      7,414.5    6J.7
3.34  Curitiva         Paren.             5,160      1,749      6,701.7   1,140.3   6,842.0    478.9        e64.2      912.3    8,917.4      445.9   9*,36.3       676.
3.35  Ca cbel          Parana             3,210      1,1 9      4,020.7    604.1    4,624.0    337.7        402.5      643.S      ,2111.8    314.4    6,602.7   467.1
3 36 Castro            Parana             2,455        014      2,930.4    565 1    3.516.6    246.1        361.6      079.1     4,99J.3     29.7    6,24S.0       376.6
3.37 Paran-gu-         Parana             2,455        614      2,600.2     660.0    3,360.2    236.2       336.0      640.0    4,771.4    236.6    5,010.0        312.0
3.39 Chapeco           Santa Catarina     1,100        391      1,446.7    269.3   1,736.0    121.6         178.6      2J1.6    2,262.6      113.1    2,875.7      171.6
3.40  Loga             Santa Catarina     1,100        391      1,419.3    263.9    1,703.2      119.2      170.3      227.1     2,211.6    110.0    2,360.0        118.4
3 41  JoacabS          Santa Catarina     1,100        391      1,44.7    269.3    1,736.0    121.S        178.6      211.5    2,262.6      118.1    2,875.7    171.6
3.42  Itagai           Santa Catarina     1,100        391      1,313.8    262.7    1,676.6      110.3      167.6      210.2    2,064.6    1lO.7    2,167.3        135.9
3.43 Novo Hneburgo   Rio Crands do Sul  6,516        2,256      7,509.1   1,601.6   9,010.9    6m.1.    901.1    2.2S2.7    U2,795.6    6S9.    :J,46.J3    970.0
3.44  Cancad           Rio Crand. do Sul  5,050      2,801      9,29.3   1,8659.9   11,159.2    761.1    1,115.4   2,79.0   15,146.0    792.3   16,6S1.3  1,20Q.2
3.45  Paso" Fundo      Rio Grand. do Sul  6,S16      2,256      7.406.6   1,497.3   6,963.9    626.9        _96.4   2,246.0   12,757.2       *J7.6   13,39f.0      967.8
3.53  Ja*              Sa* Paulo          3,170      1,349      4,646.8    929.7   5,578 3       390.5    5b7.6        743.6    7,270.4    363.S    7,631.9    561.6
3.54  Earrato.         Sao Paulo          S. I'F     1,347      4,648.6    929.7   S,36.3    390.S         557.6      743.8    7,270.4      368.5    7,6SS.       651.6
3. S   Juazeiro de N.  Ceara              2,370        690      2,954.8     591.0    3,545.6     246.2      354.6      *66.4    5,036.0      251.7    5,266.7    312.0
Total                             154,268     46,634    164,860 4 30,560.9  195,429.3  13,679.6   19,142.6  87,861.9  266,63S.4  13,261.4  276,914.0  20,152.1
I



7ago 3 af 3
BRAZ IL
SKILLS FORHAT ION PROJECT
SBNAC Costs of Co.il Work*. Furniture. Equipment. an Adminietration
Cot.in Cr.andom
Annu. l    Area of                                      Prvfe.-?t
Enroll-   ConAr..c-   Construc-  E.tosnal              Psonal                                        A8tin-              Cost in
_it1             Stat            munt      tion m2       tion      Worhe     Subtotal S.ryice    Furnitur,  oaumiment  Subtotal  i*tration   Total    usJ000
Remodelling
3.01  Se .o            Pare               2.060       1,399      4,005.6     480.5    5,286.1     370.0      576.7       768.9     7.001.7     350.1    7,3S10      111.2
3.03  Imperatriz       lqe,nhao           2.760         381      1.371.6     137.2   1,50.8       105.6       164.6      219-4     1,998.4      90.9    2,098.3    151.6
3.04  Ter,oena         Piau                1,65S5       610      1,915.4     191.S   2,106.9      147.5      229.6       306.5    2,790.7      139.6    2,930.2      211.7
300 SBrasilia          0. Federal         3,850       1.29S      4,532.5     463.2    4,985.7     349.0       543.9    1,369.7     7,238.S     361J 9    7,600.2     549.1
3.11 Cuimbs            Kmo CGrosso        2.920         929      3,102.9    310.3   3,413.2    238.9          372.3      496.4     4,o20.S     226.0    4,746.8      S43.0
3 13 Coiania          CGoias                 12         660      2,567.5     255.7    2,813.2     196.9       316.0    1,522.0     4,84.1    242.4       S.090.S     367.8
3-15  lIhe de Roi      E. Santo            1,460      3,550     12,425.0   1,242.5   13,667.6    9S6.7    1,491.0   3,727.S    19,842-7         M2.1   20.a4.8   1,606.4
3-27  C. Jordao        Seo Paulo          2,030       4,030     13,863.2  1,386.3  15,249.5   1,067.5    1,63.6    4,1S9.0   22,139.6   1,107.0   23,2486.6   1,679.7
Total                              17,547      12,8 4     44,573.7   4,457.2   49,(tq0.9  3,432.1    5,S37.9  12,S69. 4    70,330.3   3,518.9    73,599.2   6,339.6
F.,rniture and Enuioment                                                                                                                                                                         I
3.08  Sel.*dor         Bahia              6,575                                                                69.2    2,076.0     2,145.2     107.3     2,2S2.5      162.7                     _
3.14  Vitoris          E. Santo           6.740                                                              663.2    1,359.2      2,072.4     103.6    2,176.0       167.2
3.22  Sao Paulo        Sao Paulo          11,279                                                              699.2   2,729.5      3,429.4     171.5    3,600.9      260.2
3 23 Cempinam          Seo Paulo           1,50                                                                  --a 436.3           43.3       21.0       4S6.1       33.1
3 24  Santo,           Sao Paulo          1,803                                                                  __      436.3       4S6.3      21.0       4S6.1       33.1
3.25  Santo Andre      Sao Peulo           1.0 03                                                                        436.3       436.3      21.8       436.1       33.1
3.26  Ribeirao Prato   Sao Pa-uo           1,003                                                                 --      46.3        43S3 215              43.1        33.1
3.38  Londins          Pron*              1.715                                                                  _       415.0       415.0      20.7       436.7       31.5
Total                              34,524                                                             1,452.3    a,364.9     9,507.2    490.3   10,297.5       744.0
Total*
No. conatruct.on.                       1b4,268     46,634    164,A60-4  30,668.9  195,429.3  13,679.6   19,142.6  37,S31.9   2665,33.4  13.281.4  278,914.8  20,1S2.6
te-adeillng                              17,547      12,8A     44,573.7   4,457.2   49,030.9   3,432.1    S,S37.9   12,559.4    70,380.3  3S,18.9    73,899.2  6,339.5
Furniture and  qwi-pmont                 34,524                                                             1,462.3    5.S4.9     9,807.2    490.3   10,297.5    744.0
Actionm  of the National Department      24,660                                                                      102,97S.1   102.975.1   5,148.7  103,123.5   7,812.4
Total in thousands of cr.zadoa          231,019     69.480    209,434.1  S5,026.1  244,460.2  47,111.7  2S,962.0  161,271.3  440,796.0  22,439.3   471,235.3
Total in thousands of US3                                       15,132.5   2,530.6   17,663.3  .1,236.4    1,875.2   11,62.5   32,427.4   1.621.3                 34,048.7
Note:  Total stuodnta include 6,000 for SENAC national departmnt to be trained through  oabile unite (project 3.46.01 - 4,500 popl-; and 3.46.06 - 1,200 peopl).



- 76 -
ANNEX XVI
Page 1 of 1
ISZIL
SILLS FUTIU PIWET
..............
mis   l    r                                                         OA
-------             --- ---              -- -- -
funing o  Project Cuts
U  11WNIe                                    ITOTM.
Catory                        Amt           I      _.t          1     A t           I      ot 
.... ........ ._-                                  .__.       _          .__.     _         .     .     -.._...
StuiluaSW lrwc                     2,764        32     2,013        24     1,914        23     1,010        22               6,450
LocKl  traff Tfaioig               4,47         35     3,422        to     2,254        12      ,594        35              16,374
Fellu_ips Abroad                   7,9          a        77          6       24          3       347         4               9,3
Local Cultats                      1,22         0         73         2     2,094        4U       5          12               4,55
For.tge Cuultats                   2,307       16          0         0         0         0         0         0               2,307
Profnesial Service                 I,173        4          0         0     1,234        51         0         0               2,410
Civil bwks                         3,336        19         0         0    14,307        it         0         0              17,U3
uoat                              23,"           9    I0,431        27     4,75         12      9*U          2              40,05
Vbicles                                0         0         0         0         0         0     7,39        100               7,309
Furnitr                            1,5n7        40       I9         23     1,125        29       331         t               3,927
lntructiual Natwrial              11,319        42     1,433         6        9          5     4,411        25              11,254
__bprjKts Aiulistratiu                 0         0     2,340        35     2,340        35     2,050        30               6,730
Projct Auisistratim                  71        100         I         0         0         0         O         O
ToTAL UINE CoSTS                  43,233        4     21,571        15   31,206         22    24,40         16             14,42
Physical Cmtin cies              3,471               1,U13               2,474               1,353                           ,
Price Coutiucin                  7,97                2,305               4,14                2,941                           ,
TOTAL COSTS                       74,50               25,0                37,6                26,944                       14,354



- 77 -
ANNE! XVII
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures (IRE)
1.       The Project's financial impact on the participatinSg agencies is
likely to be small relative to expected revenues for SINAI and SENAC,
moderate for FUNDACENTRO, and appreciable -- though manageable -- for
SENAR. As for the SMO, the IRE associated with the Project are a minute
proportion of the recurrent expenditures authorized in the HOL 1987 budget.
2.       When the adjusted program is In full operation in 1991, IRE for
SENAI and SENAC are expected to be roughly about 12 and 31, respectively,
of projected revenues and 101 and 29S, respectively, for FUNDACENTRn and
SENAR (Table XVII.1). For each agency, revenues are conservatively assumed
to be lower than projections by the agencies themselves, and also lower
than what could be expected if present Bank macroeconomic projections for
Brazil were approximately met.  For the SMO component, estimated to entai;
about US$800,000 of IRE in 1991, no comparable percentage is calculated --
there is little basis for projecting the MOL's budget in that year. The
allocations of the IRE across expenditure categories are cImmm for each
agency in Table XVII.2.
3.       Since the Bank will be financing an appreciable share of IRE
during implementation, the assessment of financial impact also includes
projections of IRE traceable to the project, and corresponding agency
revenues in 1996, the first full year after final Bank disbursements. Key
assumptions underlying this exercise aro that:
(a)  the agencies would continue tha major institutional development
activitios introduced or enhanced by the Project at plausible
levels;
(b)  the agoncies would finance all such project-relaied isermental
activities out of ordinary revenues; and
(c)  projected revenues for 1996 would be substantially below
extrapolations dorived from the growth rates used for the 1986-91
period.
4.       Results indicate that the share of revenues required to pay for
such a continuation of project-related activities would be no greator in
1996 than in 1991 for SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO; for SENAR it would
increase from 292 to 352. As secular revenue growth continues beyond 1996,
these shares would decline thereafter.



- 78 -
ANNEX XVII
Page  of 3
MAuIL
SKILLS FOUTION POECT
Incrumtal Recurrmnt Expuditwms by Training igcyts 191, 1"9
.... .......  ............. _........... _.... .._
(in US *tilni  of lt Smtuer l*)
191                                     199
.. ................... .............,,.....  , ,.................... ___
A/    1W                                a/   1M/
IRE     Incom r    nc..                IRE      laco      Icom
INW  zillions)      l1)                 (US Aiilion)        (2)
SEIMI                    2.75    379.00       o.                 3.41   4U1.00        Om.
IENAC                    3.51    131.00       2.n!               2.13    15900        1.41
FUiNACENTRO              0.44      4.30      10.21               0.59      7.70       7.n
SEWAi                    2.43      9.00      29.21               3.43     10.40      3.OS
TOTAL                     9.5    525.3        1.61                9.6    i3.1         1.5S
._ os 0                  0.7       -          -                  0.8
at 'Lov' projectias.



SKILLS FUSTI  POW
lImer_tal Ibcwr Et Izpuitur. by Expulturr Catsgry ad #VcVt 1"1, 196
I1I WI4 'No00f Sqtoobu 1is
' Fin.                      I9l                                                     19
by--                      -  -  -
Cotowy                        qICY./ M    iNMI  .a    FM    Em                                m    MIni  .               FUI
oios ad                           WIch  U.l    !04.0    241.5    229.9  46.      0.0              301.2    296.0    281.7      45.7     41.6
Lcal taff Tralsiog               65.1    133.6    547.5    6.6        173.1    435.0              137.0   526.4    346.7    177.5    7L.0
Fell_ouikp broo                   15.1     36.3    122.6      45.5      2.5     12.5                0.0    25.5       94.3      0.0      0.0
Local Codltote                   60.2       0.0     10.2   2M.2        6.2      15.2                *.0     24.2    34.0       37.9      6.3
Fsoip Cinmltats                   4.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0 C*                      0.0      0.0      0.4       0.0      0.0
Prdfoslo.  Uwrvico               51.5       0.0      0.0    IU.5        0.0      0.0              152.5       .0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Civil bkrk                       11.1       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Euiumt                           41.0      43.0    313.9    713.1      60.1      0.0               35.1   1301.7    39.6        0.0      0.4
Mucles                           100.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   1100.3                0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   1477.1
fhrrituo                         6.2       4.7      2.1    I6.#         0.0      0.0                0.S      0.0      0e        0.0      0
InstrKtiol 4twial                3.2       33.6   m7.       13.0    136.5    502.1                 1.4    5.7    352.5    243.0    *02.1
Whlropcts Mslmstratiu           ISO.0      59.9    304.3    30.1       4.4    151.2                 0.0      0.0      0.0       L.0      LO.
e)c  Aiui.lstratia                0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0                0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     *4
Tol kutsim  Cot                 5.9   24.6   2435.2    54.4   m1.0                      714.2   2%9.5 .3 m5 4.1   3107.1
Toa Cst bi                      66.2   2752.6   22.7    64.3   21.0                       6.4    3404.7   2130.6    594.4   36A.
o/ Olmw  frmjKct Il_tOtin, ircluii.  M99. IS 19
thIe prprwti  fiuKcud by tlhe    Ky is typically greotar.
b/ IKclhdit c=tiqOIciff.



- 80 -
ANX XVIII
DRAZIL
ELI"$ FORMATION PROJECT
Statu  .f Project Preesrati
It.                         USO     SENAI      SENAC     SENAR    FUNDACENTRO    AVERAGE
1. Staff Training Program          GO         f        73         a             SS O         72
2. Terms of Reference for:
(a) Local Technical
AssIstance                          To         s U        GO           ON            6
(b) Foreign Technical
AssIstance                44        so         0          U            7             G
(c) Fellowshipe                46       0          00         0            7              68
3.  Sites A Iready Acquired          -   _                  / _                               U
4.  Doeign Wok -Ne Cnters            -        -        6   / _  _ 
S.  Remodeling Doeigns               -                  -          -             -            U
6.  List and Specifications for:
(a)  Furniture                          1 15       70          -            -            78
(b)  Equipment and Vehicloes   6        86         73         73           79            76
(c)  Instructional Materials  U          65        70         70           70            76
7.  Bid Docuoents for:
(a)  Furniture                 90       g0         of          -            -            86
(b)  Equipment and Vehicle    90         99        U                       90            s6
(c)  Instructional Materials             9         70         73           73           8s
(d)  Construction               -         -        70          -            -            70
a/  Neded for the two first year of the project.
I.. '-. 



- 81 -
ANIEX XIX
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
Skills Fomation Prolect
Proiect ManaEAment Structure and Responsibilities
A.       Proiect Manazement Structure and Staff
1.       Overall authority for project management would be vested with the
Minister of Labor. Day to day coordination wvould be provided by a Project
Management Unit in the SMO. Each participating agency would be directly
responsible for implementing the relevant project components through
Project Management Toamv   A consultative Comittee composed of mmbers of
CFMO and representatives of the training agencies would provide general
guidance and oversight. Structures for management and implementation of
the project would correspond with regular organization and staffing
patterns of the agencies.
2.       Attachment 1 of this Annox shows the structure and staffing for
project coordination by the SMO. To ensuro the effective coordination of
the proposed project, the six key project management staff wuld be
selected on the basis of experience and appointed by contract, secondment
from the training agencies or through internal arrangements. Eperience
gained through coordination of project implemntation would be
institutionslized in the SMO for support of futuro development projects and
programs in vocational training.
3.       The basic organization and staffing arrangements for management of
the relevant subprojects would parallel those of the SMO Management Unit.
Each agency plans to assign staff, equivalent to five or six on a full-time
basis, to manage implementation of project components. These staff would
have specialties or equivalent experience in the areas oft vocational
training, organization and management; educational economics, research or
evaluation; financial administration; and engineering or architecture.
With the exception of SINAR, they would be drawn from the xisting agency
staff and supplemented by consultants where necessary.  New and  operienced
staff, as well as consultants, would be recruited and appointed at SENAR to
manage subproject implementation. In addition, each agency would appoint a
project coordinatorlmanager who would also be responsible for liaison with
the SMO. The Goverrment would constitute the SMO Management Unit and the
Project Management Toeam for each agency by May 31, 1987. (The SMO would
manage implementation of CFMO and SMO components through the structure of
overall project management as shown in Attachment 1.)
B.       Prolect Management Responsibilities and Procedures
4.       Main manaRement responsibilities.  The distribution of project
management responsibilities i summarized by agency in Attachehnt 2.
The particular functional responsibilities of the SMO, as the project
coordinating body, are further detailed in the Working Papers for the
project.



- 82 -
ANNEX XIX
Page 2 of 5
5.       Implementation procedures.  With the exception of research and
studies to be implemented by the project agencies, all components have been
fully appraised Ly the Bank. These include: institutional development;
staff development and training; and civil works. Procedures for
implementation of selected items under these components -- including
retention of consultants, procurement of equipment, furniture and
materials, and civil works -- would correspond with Bank guidelines and are
described in the main text. These items would be managed directly by the
relevant specialists of the subproject management teams. Implementation
procedures for other common items are discussed below.
(a) Staff training and upgrading. Each participating agency would be
responsible for mounting staff development programs. The subject
areas for staff training were identified through needs assessments
carried out during project preparation. The detailed planning,
development and management of implementation of individual courses
and of fellowships would be carried out in accordance with regular
agency procedures by the relevant human resource divisions or
units. Staff development programs would be coordinated by a
designated member of each subproject management team, normally the
vocational trainer, to ensure appropriate quality and to manage
scheduling and logistics. Financing costs of training (as well as
of other subproject items) would be managed by the administrative
divisions of the agencies in accordance with regular procedures.
Fellowships for study or tours abroad would be designed and
awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Institutional development. The institutional development
components comprise, variously, actions to be taken to alter the
structure or staff of the agencies or to strengthen a support
function, e.g., planning. These measures would be carried cut in
accordance with schedules contained in the related Plans of Action
by the appropriate agency or sub-unit of the agency. The
designation and appointment of new staff at the SMO would be
managed directly by the SMO. The revised structure for the SMO
would be effected through internal decree of the Minister of
Labor, while that for SENAR would require external legislation.
Procedures for effecting improvements in management practices will
generally comprise review and assessment of needs, and preparation
of recommendations; and be followed by implementation of the
recommendations. Procedures and responsibilities for carrying out
related staff upgrading will correspond with those listed above.
A manager for institutional development will be designated in each
of the project management teams, including the SMO Management
Unit.
(c)  Studies and Research.  The SMO, through the Research Committee,
will be responsible for coordinating and approving studies and in-
depth evaluations inclrde(' under the project. These will be
defined mainly in the course of project implementation and
approved and impJemented in accordance with the guidelines and



- 83 -
ANNEX XIX
Page 3 of 5
criteria to be established for this purpose. Studies will bc
carried out directly, or managed under contract with outside
agencies, by the research and evaluation divisions or units of the
project agencies. The research and evaluation officer in each
project management team would be responsible for overseeing
management of the studies.
6.       Supervision and monitoring procedures.  Each participating agency
would be directly responsible for implementation of its own compone:its and
for monitoring implementation progress. The SMO Management Unit, with
advice of the Consultative Committee, would be responsible for overall
coordination of project implementation, including supervision and
monitoring. Supervision would be based on the regular review and
submission of reports on implementation progress and constraints under
subproject components prepared by the relevant project officer in each
agency. The coordinator of each agency's project management staff would
also attend trimestral meetings called by the SMO Management Unit to assess
implementation progress and to identify common implementation problems and
potential solutions. Once each year the Consultative Committee would
review the proposed implementation schedules for the coming year against
budget allocations proposed in order to identify implementation problems.
It would submit its assessment together with any proposed scheduling
adjustments for Bank review. Project monitoring would be based largely on
a series of measurable indicators of progress agreed with the Bank (shown
in Annex VII).
7.       In addition, the Government would undertake a mid-project review
to be completed by June 30, 1991. The review would be carefully prepared
through prior annual evaluation (particularly during the second year of
implementation).1   It would focus on vocational training policies, policy
implementation and progress towards institutional development objectives.
The purpose of these assessments would be to review progress and to
identify requirements for adjustments as appropriate.
8.       The Bank would share the responsibility for project supervision
with the SMO and the training agencies. Initially, the Bank would mount an
in-depth review mission during project start-up (late 1987) to assess,
jointly with the agencies, the suitability of planned implementation
strategies and procedures for each type of subproject component.
Thereafter, Bank review missions would be conducted annually, with a
particularly significant input during the second year of implementation.
During the annual reviews, the Bank would assess implementation progress
with the various types of components on a sample basis and would direct
particular attention to the resolution of implementation problems which may
arise. During its annual review missions, the Bank would also assess with
Government the adequacy of provisions for local budgets and financing.
1/ The main institutional development measures are currently scheduled to
be completed during the first four years of project implementation.



- 84 _
ANNEX XIX
Page 4 of $
21~~~~~~~~~-  ,                                        - ,
A j                            I"i
0                                                              t
6.                                     I~~~~~~~4



- 85 -
ANNEX XIX
Page 5 of 5
Attachment 2
NMIU
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Distribution of ResoonsibiIltios for Prolect Execution
Admi n i ot.                                 FUNDA-
Activities                              IBRDo  MT9/SM0    SMO   SEMAI   SENAC   SEMAR   CENTRO
1. Coordination
1.1  With tho Bank                                      a
1.2  With the executing agenia,                         a
1.i  Wlth the ministries involved                       a
1.4  With the central bank                             o                  b        b
1.6  With international agencioo                        c         b       b        b       b        b
1.6  With notion-I agenceoo                            c          b       b        b       b        b
2. Plinnina Control and MonitorinA
2.1  Physical and financial                             a/c       b       b        b       b        b
2.2 Technicol assistance, fellowships,
studios, resoarch, and Instructional
matrioal                                          a/c        b       b       b        b        b
2.3  Agencies operation                                           b       b        b       b        b
2.4 Roports from:
- Executing agencies to MTh                                  b       b       b        b        b
- MTD to the Bank                                 a
- MTB to othor ministries                         a
3.  Budot
3.1  Counterpart funds                                  a         b       a        a       b        b
S.2  External (TBRD)                            a       c
4. Procurement
4.1  Liat and specificatono                            c         b       b        b       b        b
4.2  Definition of type of bidding                      c         b       b        b       b        b
4.3  Bid documents                                      d         b       b        b       b        b
4.4  Bid publication                                    d         b       b        b       b        b
4.5  Receipt of bid and evaluation                      d          b      b        b       b        b
4.6 Approval and award
- Below a aet value (post-approval)        a      c          b       b       b        b        b
- Abovo a at value (prior-approval)    a          c
4.7 Contract *xecution, reception, and
natal latiom                                      c          b       b       b        b        b
6. Payment and disburemeent
6.1  Request for IBRO disburaxmnt                       a
5.2 Request disbursement from the
the central bank t.peceal account)                a                  b       b
6.  Rimburaoent                                     a
a/ Principal rosponsibility over project.
F/ Principal rosponoibility at the agency level.
c/  Coordination.
a/ Clearance.
*   Overall supervision of project implemntation reata within IBRD.



-86  -                             I*IL KILL1us        I0 NWii  2saw             Lim f
PUJICT ?"is aU 1mU5016440  ff100
kciilA,ts4 PM cutaq  CupI.ttM  ly CAIWN  VW  .04 k0.t
1907      19u       iqo       I990      4904      M99        '93       4994      4990
4. CIVIL wsO
A. KM             lb0. of C00tml         37.0
1.1  Site khiKtim  ba  kqmsaiti.                    40  10   10   is  00
1.2  Preliminary Flat                               40  30  is  10   so  10  i0  Is   a   I00
4,3fai 9I..IPI. 4,,idiiS.commts                    t0  to  30  30  00  00   1    is  is  is  400
4.4  Pt.qsaiOtc,ties 04 Catractars                  20  20   a    a0  id  00    0   90  90  I00
4.0?mAffadWi1  100 $0301 StSt701ItAU40 0
4.OOlw#s .4 .utract,                                       010le30    300036 0100  ANIW 10
4.1 Catrwctiu                                                       40 4030  30101    1 6 0   isOWAIN
2.  FOlI403  la 349001
A.100
241 List swiicatiuhihlconiibts                       0   Is  30  30  10  St   05   08  13  15   a    As                   to900
2.2 1owl41 4S3 30 30 0000100101175a  is  lot
2.3  lid Ivltiwd.,ct                                           is  Is  38  30  00   30  08aS is   15         5   A5   A5  9040
2.4                                                                ISvolutiatu4    45  30  30  00  50  05  6308       10      A5   9   10
S. not             la. 64 Ciovil)        33,0
Ilb. of Rolle bitil         0.0
2.1 List Seotificatis.IOg Pcm,uts                   20  40  40  III  It  90  90  100
2.2  t?AVI4U9                                        lb  10  40  40 4 It          90   90  400I
2.3  Sit v,lmatiulCaetrKcts hug                     40   1 40     40   It  0 4 90   9 too
2.0  h4vvlm,a4.um4                                               40 00  00  04    1   0   90    9  400
C. XMC            lb. of catwil         40.0
lb. e4 bOfils LWutil        24.0
2.1 List Specificaties/Sii hcwmts                    0   40  40  20  20  40  00  99  99  10  70  00  00  90  400
2.2 miur4m                                                       034340 303630 400050010047  5%100
2.3  lid 1va4..tiudcatgucts bug                                S    S   40  Is  30  30  40  40   0 i         0 41     11   90  400
2.0  h4i,aorlIu,tallatis                                               5      15  is  i0   so 0 45 0a  i          0   10  10  90  00
'. Km
2.1 Lid tleciEicatialiMjSfwomts                      0   20  21  a0  01  08  08   000              0   9040
2.2tuoiuiao                                          I  120 20  5400108080   le                                 to4
2.3 h [41.4tMtiMlCat4gS AWO buo                      1 20 2040as08080000910400
2.4  li4iilryl4wta44.tium                                 3    5   20  25  45  40 6 00   01 0   100 9 95    400
E. FWICMEM         (No. of Ciatursi       4.0
2.1 List Ipetiftcatta/hill blots                    45  So   70  50        0       9040
2.2  l.4WaaI                                              is  50  10  go0          to   so l0 40
2.3  hill[i vlfgt$ui/Cutr.Ctl #AWt                       Is  so   10  00  00   9    90  in
2.4  h4ilwu/ssi4tiIatim                                       40  10   10  00   U                too040
3.  RTIC4ILC AUISIOlS
S.4I LINCA           lit&iOf batha)  2,444.0
A. 36   lklol.iaq 7, .4 of. bel4t14,000.0                20  00  71l  92  4I0
1.SEMAI                                  20.0             10  23  43  01  10   02   09   96400
C. OK                         6"~~~4.0 I4I0  23   03  07   75  52   09   90400
1. KW                         ~~20.0            It 20 so0   so0000  Ma   to  is 00
E.F11W1aISIU                            201.0              5   i  5       is 45 11o 3 0   1 5 0 a                 .          .  9 5   Ito
3.2  136400          lkitO    Nth.t),    34.0
036                    90.0                   54~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 5202 41000810U909400
5.1Kul                                   10. 0                0 23 4 101100320994I00
C. KMC                         St~5.1            40to23 4?0110?fl0990400
0. Kw                                    20.0              10 20 30  000 '6    0 0A90                            lot
1. PANOWN                      4~1.0             40 30 3000  100OD9040"
4. 519? 1Tu404s
*ILKOCM          lb. of Pereli0 43,97.0
SE MI                                 2,710.0              0444 1 234   31 4003  00061 14 54K  90 0to
C. IK                                 4,400.0              & a it210a942 10550a1n 9 b9340
Sm K                                  3,b62.0    51001015 3                    004 650008100A00 9a54e  00
4.2  SLLMSIPS 364b.6494rs4   4,002,
A. 6                                    240.0              14730000010 l  o                            0A9657    0   "90 100
S  mI                                   3511.0             5   I4  41  24   31  37  40  03  00   61   14   It  U    91400
C. ICU                                  240.0              J 12 it2734 42 10 051 2 1  b 92100
s K                                      00. 0             14I1523 3037 45 3 0011?000A90"904w
1.PIFtO1TU                                9.0             14025 IS45 0So510 0 0                                   M910
5.  15261104   iNM
0.36                                        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 2 304 050 to is  10is0A9s090400
I. Kai4                                                         0  0  4413404 00100
C. K                                                             51U1 0442030 4 45  5 0  70 103904o
1.m                                         1~~~~~~~0 20  30  35  40  30   00  00  10   1009    a    "        90  40o
C.04 F4S442515 20 s 0   5s 320400   5000 i  495400
C. EK                                                       4 94023 3031743 090635001909"100
0. Kul                                                     40 3001o94  00
E. FLOWUOOI                                               to02034o4050 0 0101501s09 t40
1.  POPEISIMU  104CE13t0af4 NotWo
Al.SW                                   900.0         0   44  is  24  34  31   04   so  11  03  10  10  03   09 1 9040
S.  0004640100140       (Stiff NomtOsl      510.0         5   44  45  25   31  37  44  51   57  63  10  11  53  09  94  040
9. EiAI1              (M.o4 Pw.om.,,$54.3310                                0402  135  41   0 70   005    09090I00to



- 87 -
ANNEX XXI
Pasel 1 of 3
SXILLS FOlMATI0  PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
hAunt of the
Loan allocated
(Expressed in
ollar Equivalent)                 I of Expenditers to he Financed
=_ .. _..a..-. ..__ ..... ... .
(1) Works                                     3,360,000               192
(2) Equipment, lexcluding vehicles            36,580,000              loo1   of (oreign expenditures and 342 of
and microcoaputers), Instructional                                local expenditurn.
materiils, and Furniture
(3)(a) Experts and Consultants' services   4,130,000                  IOOZ of Foreign Consultants, and 40  of
Local Consultants.
(b) Salaries of SRO Professional Sta0f  1,170,000                  100I   until June 30, 19901 752 thereafter
and until June 30, 1991 502 thereafter
and until June 30, 199; and 251 thereaftr.
Ic) Salaries for Project Administration   790,000                 1002 of local expenditures.
(4) Studies, Resnerch,                      17,200,000               1001 of foreign expenditures and 331 of
Training, and Fellowships                                        local eipnditures.
(5) Unallocated                             11,270,000
74,500,000
aaumauaaau a"



SILLS FIIMTI PlUECT
hobi'umt k66s3
TOTIO  PEECT                                  cm                   cm                  CT"9                          CV92                           cm                  CT%                 c195m  c     n    s    A.L
EIE11.II11i1.        Epapod.   hahr.    Epoud.    khbr.   Eapod.   how.   Expsi.  lIxb.   Eapod.   lim'.   Eapad.   helm.    _poml.   kim'.   Eapud.   how.   Expoa.   b_m.    End.   b_m.
Pr Perid   40.          2620.1    26414.1   1409. 7   32730.4   3U4.3   256.6  12301.7   25.3   1036.3   1I.    121   16041.9    6  3.4   11M.4    5 .7    4711.4    3367.6  I6X.E    T16.1
C_lulatau   64.         2620.1   3211.1  1346.S   U559.2  23 .6   92347.8   463.7  14401.2   59I.6  134245.6   9196.   15636.9   69.4  1U1572.4  71133.1  IMt.8   741.31  14M .8    43.1
I o  Tsui       3.9?       3.5?      39.711    11.3      39.41        K      54912    54.5?       WE6      66.4?     66.n       79.5?    9.?        U.31    9.1         95.5    14.6    1W.K
iU EIT     P3IFILE        Ctn 2    CU/I    n  U62          t/l    CM92    C /    cV9612    C9/Il   c1mn12   C I    tM22    C9/1   C3112                        4Il   c94n        M9/I   L951a        C911
IF I1   L13                F13/I    F12UM2      FP311      Ff12    F"Sil   FV9612    F191/1    Fl91J2    F172/I    F212    F193/    F312    Ff91!    f9412    F5I   Ft15/2   F1U1    F962                                   _TX1
End of CT Ezp_itwe         6404.7              2M4I4.3              32730.4             23796.6              233.3               343.9               16041.9             11245.4              4711.4 t                         .LI
fAd of CY kborhmumut       2U6.1 I              t46.7               14843.3              12301.7             106.3                a5.1                663.4               53.17               367.                          7.1
sunrtral hulmnt            26U0.1     5434.9    3434.9   7421.6   7421.6   6156.1    6156.1   5153.    F153.1    4127.5   4127.5    391.7   3161.7   266.9   266.9 .166.5    135                                              I.1
End of FT hksdun_umit                 354.9                2256.5              13572.5             11304.0             9g6.7               74M.2                56.6                4356.3               1613.5             74 .1
lbtlrmals 24 moth l1q                 5S39.9    265.6   4571.0    44.5    963    4524.2   753.0  J37.0    67.1    3693.6   4952.1   2476.4  s3 J                          3939.5   2966.2    1456.1    3U613                16. 1
End of FT hulursmat                   539.9               11256.1              I333.               126".21              95.1                64.4                615.5               49.7                3133.6              7666.1
Z of Total kdrsom'mt                     7.2                 135.1S               17.91               16.n                13.4?               10.1 S               L71                 6.6                 4.n                M.6
tmIative h          _                 539.9               3625.9              299.7                42119.6            53174.9              6621.3              64476.              71316.5             7456.1              _74366.1
of Total 3ia*mm.m                       7.2n                22.32               46.21               56.4?                69.6                M.6                 19.21               "5.1t             133.6                 33.6
bigal  Profile               931       rt2        VI3 s         4 n3               3 A      a 37       n a      V 9
E0IUTII2   IECTS              3.6?      14.61      27.6K     42.6      59.6?     75.61     11.61    97.6?    33.61
au  5ECTT                     2.6?      Il.6       26.6      44..      63.6      n.n    t9.          ".6       166.6?
TNIS PWECT                    7.n       22.31     41.21      56.41     69.6      6.6        9.21    "5.n       16.6
___--_--_0 s  t _ _ _ _ _      _        _           O          _        _        _        _         _        _        _        _        _        _        _         _ -~~~~~I



- 89 -
ANNEX XEI
Page 3 of 3
Disburserr.ent Schedule
80 -
70
os1O -zz/
so     Re.d                   gl                  rj
C
40
40-
0    20-
.3
E
C-   10 
as              90              92             94,             SB
Fiscal Year
a  Reg.Ed.          e.  RegAII           0  Proj.



- 90 -
ANNEX XXII
Page 1 Of 2
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
.......................
Procurmoent Arringements
..... ........ ..  ....
(US million)
Total Base
Procurement Method                      Cost
... -.. ---------...-...........----..-------.   (without
Project Category                   ICB        LCD 1/   Other /  N.A. 1/   R.P.  ontingencies)
..... .......... .......... ... ....  ...   . ...        .......  .. .....     ....  ....... . ....... 
Studies and Research                 0.00       2.11       1.10       5.24       0.00       0.43
Local Staff Training                 0.00       0.00       3.96      14.91       0.00      18.99
Followships Abroad                   0.00       0.00       1.67       7.61       0.00       9.28
Local Consultants                    0.00       0.00       1.00       3.55       0.00       4.56
Foreign Consultants                   0.00      0.00       0.81       1.50       0.00       2.31
Professional Services                0.00       0.00       0.29       2.12       0.00       2.41
Civil Works                           0.00     17.66       0.00       0.00       0.00      17.66
Equipment                            16.58     14.96       0.98       0.00       7.54      40.06
Vehicles                              0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       7.39       7.39
Furniture                             0.00      3.92       0.00       0.00       0.00       3.92
instructional Material               3.10      10.22       4.93       0.00       0.00      18.26
Subprojects Administration           0.00       0.00       0.00       6.73       0.00       6.73
Project Adoinistration                0.00      0.00       0.00       0.79       0.00       0.79
Total Baseline Cost            19.68      48.87      14.74     42.46      14.93    140.68
(iwithout contingencies)
X                        14.0     34.7!      10.5I      30.2X      10.62    100I0
pj With foreign biddore having the opportunity to participate.
ki   R.quest for Informal Quotation  (convit )
5J No restrictions on Procurement.
gJ  R.servod Procurment not *legible for financing under the Bank loan.



- 91 -
ANNEX XXII
Page 2 of 2
LIMITS ON TYPE OF PROCUREMENT AND PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS
(USS '6)
Review                          Aggregate
Type of Contract              Limit      Contract Volus          Limit                    Type of Procuremnt
Studies, fellowships,               100       Grecatr than or                       Proposals invited frou short list of
local training, technical                    equal to 160                           local and international consultants.
assistonce.
Instructional materials                       Greater than or                       ICa
and equipment                                 equal to 460
16S       Loas  than 400        20,760.6        LCB with foreign bidders having
the opportunity to participate
16S       Lese than 8.1           ,07,9.0       Price quotation from at least 3
bidders and/or direct administrat;on
Civil Works                         300                                             LCB with foreign bidders having
the opportunity to participate.
Furniture                           100                                             LCB with foreign bidders having
tho opportunity to participate.
Professional Serviceo                so                                             Proposals invited from a short list
of prequalifiii ccneultants.



- 92 -
ANNEX XXIII
Page 1 of
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
Bank's Experience in the Auditing and
Financial ManaRement of Prolect 1452-BR
Analysis of Audit Reports
1.       The internal auditing entity of the Brazilian Executive office,
Secretaria de Controle Interno (SECIN), initially under the Planning
Secretariat until 1985, when it was moved to the new Secretaria do Tesouro
Nacional (STN), conducted two audits of Loan 1452-BR. While the form and
content of the audit reports were deficient in several aspects, they
include some comments of interest concerning the administration of the
loan:
(a) The audit prepared by SECIN in December 1984, noted shortcomings
in the statements of expenditure and financial reports prepared
by' the Project Implementation Unit, PRODEMO (Programa de Apoio eo
Desenvolvimento de Mao-de-Obra). The mission visiting Brazil the
following July took note of this, analyzed the situation which had
produced the problem and made recommendations concerning
improvements.
(b) The December 31, 1985 audit report, prepared by the STN, also
qualified its opinion based on several administrative weaknesses
noted at SENAC/Santa Catalina and, particularly, at
FUNDACENTRO/Sao Paulo.
Recommendations for the New Operation
2.       In order to avo.d the auditing and financial management
inadequacies encounteree in this first Loan, the new project has
incorporated certain provisions:
(a) Prior to loan effectiveness the Government should agree to
devise:
(i) an adequate accounting system including a "code of accounts"
for the project, which would be flexible enough to identify
al. categories of expenditures (including cash outlays for
operating expenses, goods and services), which could then be
summarized in the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). This



- (93 -
ANNIX XXIII
.,4e 2 of 2
accounting code will be standard throughout tht project,
both at the SMO central admiiristration and for the executing
agencies. The "code" should also provide fot tLhe accruals
(not cash outlays) resul irig from the op.ta4 io.s of the
project: receivables, inventories, payables, etc.;
(ii)  A set of Guidelines for Administrative Procedures, detailing
the internal administrative checks iid balances,
authorization procedures And report- ig stardards for
monitoring project implementation, woold be prepared by the
SMO and approved by the Bank.
(b)  The Government has agreed to appoint a financial administrator to
the Project Management Unit of the SMO. This administrator would
be responsible for overseeing and following-up with the training
agencies on financial rel rting and utilization of the
administrative procedures and accounting system devised for the
project.
(c)  A qualified private auditing firm acceptable to the Bank would be
selected for audit of the training agencies as a condition of
effectiveness. Terms of reference for the auditing firm cover
specific instructions for auditing the financial statements of the
executing agencies, the Statements of Expenditures (SOE), and the
Special Account (the latter to be audited by the STN if it is to
be maintained at the Central Bank).  Contracts with the auditing
firm are expected to be signed no later than two months after the
start of the fiscal year to be audited, in order to allow the
auditors sufficient time to undertake an interim assessment of the
financial performance of the project.



