Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18109
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2810-BR)
June 30, 1998
Country Managing Unit for Brazil
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
BRAZIL
SKILLS FORMATION PROJECT (LOAN 2810-BR)
1.    This is an Implementation Completion Note for the amended portion ($2.1
million) ofthe Skills Formation Project (Loan 2810-BR) in Brazil. This note
compliments the PCR completed in 1992 (Report No. 10948).
2.    The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, compared to the original closing date
of June 30, 1996. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on June
25, 1998.
3.    The Implementation Completion Note was prepared by Polly Jones of LCSHD
and was reviewed by Mr. Patricio Millan.
4.    On May 12, 1987, a loan for $74.5 million was approved for the Skills Formation
Project. The project was originally intended to improve the responsiveness of Brazilian
public vocational training to rapidly changing technologies. From the outset the project
was affected by serious difficulties. The project becarne effective in December 1987 but
only reached a normal implementation pace at the end of 1988. At the same time,
Brazil's economic situation, which was characterized by recurrent hyperinflation and
recession, resulted in growing budgetary restrictions. Faced with mounting difficulties,
the Government carried out a comprehensive review of public sector policies. The
subsequent policy changes altered the relevance of vocational training within the
Government's investment priorities. As a result, in 1990, the Government requested the
cancellation of $58.9 million (79 percent) of the original loan, leaving an uncommitted
balance of $2.1 million. Only 16 percent of the loan had been disbursed.
5.    Given the large reduction in project size, the Bank and the Government decided to
prepare the Project Completion Report (PCR), once the ongoing activities were
concluded. The PCR, completed in mid-1992, concluded that overall project
performance was far below satisfactory levels, and achievement of project development
objectives was negligible.
6.   In 1994, the Government requested that the undisbursed loan balance of $2.1
million be used to support activities aimed at policy formulation, analysis and review at
the federal level of government. These activities were organized into the "Government
Transition Technical Assistance Program". The overall goal of GTAPP was to strengthen
the Government's capacity for systematic fornulation, analysis, monitoring, and review
of public policy in core socio-economic areas. Begun in the context of the cabinet



transition to take place after the elections that were to conclude in late 1994, the initiative
covered key areas, such as public sector management, social welfare, and economic
stabilization. The GTTAP included four components: (a) execution of a Living Standards
Measurement Survey ($1.35 million, 63 percent of total cost); (b) preparation of sector
policy briefing papers and organization of seminars to discuss the findings with the new
Government of Brazil team ($350,000, 16 percent of total cost); (c) reform of the system
for monitoring state-owned enterprises ($180,000, 8 percent of total cost); and (d)
modernization of management systems in the Ministry of Finance ($270,000, 13 percent
of total cost).
7.    The amendment was submitted to the Board on November 8, 1994 for approval
on a no objection basis. The no objection was recorded on November 29, 1994. The
amendment was signed by the Government in January 1995.
8.    By and large the activities described in the amendment were completed
satisfactorily. The Living Standards Measurement Survey was designed, training
undertaken, and the field work carried out over about twelve months beginning in April
1996. The data is processed and is being used by researchers in Brazil and overseas. A
statistical abstract is due to be published shortly. The design of the survey has facilitated
new types of analysis, particularly in the area of social issues and poverty. The
experience in designing and carrying out the survey also has influenced other survey
instruments in Brazil.
9.    A series of sector policy briefing papers were prepared and several seminars
organized to discuss the findings with Government officials. The topics included public
spending, poverty and inequality, tax reform, and education.
10.   The focus of the third component (monitoring system for state-owned enterprises)
was modified somewhat given the new Government's decision to privatize several public
companies. Several studies were carried out to examine the regulatory framework
required for successful privatization and to recommend how to manage the transition
between state-owned companies and greater private participation. The papers covered
various areas of infrastructure including ports, railways, and telecommunications.
Seminars were organized to discuss the findings of the studies.
11.   Regarding the fourth component, the emphasis changed from the modernization
of the systems within the Ministry of Finance to an examination of the fiscal position of
several states in Brazil. Since the problems posed by poor fiscal performance and the
high debt stocks existing in many states threatened the Government's macroeconomic
performance, this area was a high priority. A series of studies were carried out on several
states and covered issues of budget structure and the costs of personal emoluments,
among other areas.
IMAGING
Report No.:           18109
Type: 



