Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2810-BR
(Skills Formation Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Date July 27, 1987
 LOAN NUMBER 2810-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1987, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor;
(b)  "CFMO" means Conselho Federal de Mao de Obra, the Borrower's Federal 
Manpower Council established by the Borrower's Decree No. 77362 dated April 1, 1976;
(c)  "SMO" means Secretaria de Mao de Obra, the Ministry's Manpower Secretariat;
(d)  "Project Management Unit" means the unit constituted within SMO  pursuant 
to paragraphs (a) of Sections 3.03 and 6.01 of this Agreement;
(e)  "SENAI" means Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial, the Borrower's 
National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship, an entity established by means of the 
Borrower's Decree-Law No. 4048 dated January 22, 1942;
(f)  "SENAC" means Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Comercial, the   Borrower's 
National Service for Commercial Apprenticeship, established as an  entity governed by 
private law by the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 8621, dated January 10, 1946, as 
regulated by the Borrower's Decree No. 61.843 dated December 5, 1967, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(g)  "SENAR" means Servico Nacional de Formacao Professional Rural, the 
Borrower's National Service for Rural Apprenticeship, established within the Ministry 
in the terms of Article 172 of the Borrower's Decree-Law 200 as modified by the 
Borrower's Decree-Law No. 900 and by the Borrower's Decree  No. 77.354 dated March 31, 
1976, as it shall be transformed by virtue of the legal provisions to be enacted 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)  "FUNDACENTRO" means Fundacao Nacional de Seguranca, Higiene e  Medicina do 
Trabalho, the National Foundation for Occupational Safety,   Hygiene and Medicine, a 
foundation established by the Borrower`s Decree No.  77.319 dated March 22, 1976;
(i)  "Training Agency" means any one of the entities referred to in paragraphs 
(e) through (h) above, and the term, in plural, means all of them collectively;
(j)  "Research Committee" means the Committee to be established pursuant to 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(k)  "Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's Central Bank;
(l)  "Cruzado" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
(m)  "CESA" means the cruzado expenditures special account to be opened pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)  "FESA" means the foreign exchange expenditures special account  to be 
opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(o)  "Account Bank" means the Central Bank in respect of CESA and the commercial 
bank  referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, in respect of 
FESA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to seventy-four million five hundred thousand dollars 
Page  3
($74,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in the Central Bank an account in dollars on terms and   conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this account (hereinafter called CESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in cruzados incurred in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be 
financed by the Bank pursuant to
paragraph (a) above.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, an account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this account (hereinafter 
called FESA) shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in currencies other than 
cruzados incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required to 
carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(d)  Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall 
cause the Account Bank to furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of CESA 
and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior  to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 
and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The Minister of Labor of the Borrower is designated as  
representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required  or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry with the  assistance of the Training Agencies as 
stipulated in paragraph (b) of this  Section, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with   appropriate vocational education and administrative practices, and 
shall  provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank with each of the Training Agencies, and with the Central Bank also only in the 
case of SENAI and SENAC, to secure: (i) the adherence of each Training Agency to the 
provisions of this Agreement,  particularly in respect of the objectives of the 
Project and the carrying  out of the Project, including the procurement of goods and 
services therefor; (ii) the provision by SENAI and SENAC of counterpart funds as 
required to cover their respective share of expenditures for Project execution, in 
consideration for receiving, from the Borrower, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to their respective activities under the Project; 
(iii) a mechanism enabling SENAI  and SENAC to have prompt access to the proceeds of 
the Loan made available  to them for purposes of the Project; (iv) the provision of 
counterpart funds by the Borrower for purposes of the Project which, in the case of 
SENAI and SENAC, will be made available only if SENAI or SENAC are unable to provide 
such counterpart funds out of their own resources as stipulated in (ii) above; and (v) 
such other activities in the part of one or more of the  Training Agencies, or of the 
Central Bank, as shall be convenient to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement, particularly those under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.
     (c)  Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not change, waive, supersede or terminate, any of the contractual arrangements 
referred to in (b) above or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish within SMO and maintain thereafter 
until a date not earlier than one year from the Closing Date, a  unit adequately 
staffed with qualified and experienced personnel and vested with such functions and 
powers as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,  and charge such unit with the 
responsibility of day to day coordination of Project activities and liaison with CFMO, 
the Ministry, the Training Agencies, the Central Bank, and the Bank.
     (b)  Under the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Training Agencies to establish, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, basic organization and  staffing arrangements for 
management of the corresponding portions of the Project which shall be identical to 
the extent possible, to those of the Project Management Unit.
     (c)  The Borrower shall establish by September 30, 1987 and maintain during the 
existence of the Project Management Unit, a consultative committee composed of 
representatives of SMO and each of the Training Agencies.
     Section 3.04. Except if otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower:
     (a)  shall establish not later than September 30, 1987, the Research Committee 
under Part A (b) (ii) of the Project, establish guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the approval by the Research Committee of  studies and research activities under 
the Project, and maintain the  Research Committee while research activities under the 
Project are still ongoing;
Page  5
     (b)  shall establish the guidelines referred to under Part A (a) (i) of the 
Project not later than by December 31, 1988;
     (c)  shall complete Part A (a) (ii) of the Project not later than August 31, 
1987; and
     (d)  shall complete Part A (b) (i) of the Project not later than September 30, 
1987, except that the appointment of the staff referred to therein shall be made by 
October 31, 1987.
     Section 3.05. (a) Without in  any way limiting or restricting the provisions of 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall take all such steps as 
shall be required to undertake and have completed by June 30, 1991 a review in depth 
of all activities undertaken under the  Project up to that date, such review to give 
priority to monitoring policy and institutional achievements. The review shall focus 
particularly on development of the following capabilities: (i) of CFMO and SMO to 
coordinate and support the national vocational training system, including the issuance 
of clear guidelines for delineating the training responsibilities of the different 
institutions involved in such system; (ii) of SMO and each of the  Training Agencies 
to formulate and execute action plans; (iii) of the  entire national vocational 
training system to translate study recommendations on the future financing and 
administration of skills training into implementable programs; (iv) of SENAI and SENAC 
to expand facilities and program offerings, particularly in areas of rapidly changing 
technologies; and (v) of SENAR to function effectively in its new legal form.
     (b)  The Borrower shall prepare carefully the review stipulated in paragraph (a) 
of  this Section through prior annual evaluation (particularly during the  second year 
of Project execution) and shall, for the above  purposes, focus on vocational training 
policies, policy implementation and progress towards institutional development 
objectives.
     (c)  The Borrower and the Bank shall discuss results and recommendations of the 
reviews stipulated in paragraphs (a) and (b) above and the Borrower shall take such 
corrective measures in respect of the execution of the Project as shall have been 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have, and cause each Training Agency to have, the records and 
accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including, in the case of the 
Borrower, those for CESA and 
FESA, and the records therefor, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal  
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Training Agencies or any 
action that has substantially and adversely affected the financial autonomy of SENAI, 
SENAC or FUNDACENTRO and, after  the enactment of the Borrower's Law referred to in 
(d) below, of SENAR;
     (b)  any Training Agency or the Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of 
its respective obligations under the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph 
(b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
     (c)  the Borrower's legal provisions revising SENAR's legal form promulgated 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been 
revoked or abrogated, or modified so as to adversely effect the execution of the 
Project; and
     (d)  the Borrower and the Bank shall have failed to reach agreement on a 
reasonable number of substantial corrective measures, if such measures  were required 
by the findings or recommendations of the review stipulated  in paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Project Management Unit, the organization and staffing arrangements 
stipulated in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement for the Training Agencies, and a 
revised accounting system for Project expenditures  for all the above entities, and 
Page  7
related administrative procedures, both  satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
established;
     (b)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower and each of the Training Agencies to perform their 
obligations pursuant to this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights 
in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
     (c)  the Borrower shall have entered into the contractual arrangements  with 
SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO stipulated in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (d)  that one or more auditing firms, acceptable to the Bank, that will  be 
responsible for the carrying out of the audits referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement in respect of each of the Training Agencies, shall have been selected.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, or by any agency thereof or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower and each of the Training Agencies to perform their 
respective obligations pursuant to this Agreement; and
     (b)  on behalf of the Borrower and SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO,  respectively, 
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01  (b) of this Agreement, 
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been 
performed or given.
     Section 6.03. The date of September 29, 1987 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the  Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio da Fazenda
          Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
          Esplanada dos Ministerios
          70048 Brasilia, D.F. Brazil
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINIFAZ                         611506 MFAZ BR
               Brasilia, Brazil
     with copies to:
          Minister of Labor
          Ministerio do Trabalho
          Esplanada dos Ministerios
          70059 Brasilia, DF
          Brazil
          Cable address:                     Telex:
Page  8
               MINITRAB                         061-1158
               Brasilia
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
                   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
                   By /s/ Luiz Carlos Bresser Pereira
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to  each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works                       3,360,000      19%
(2)  Equipment,                 36,580,000      100% of foreign
     (excluding                                 expenditures and
     vehicles                                   34% of local
     and micro-                                 expenditures
     computers),
     instructional
     materials and
     furniture
Page  9
(3)  (a)  Experts,               4,130,000      40% of local
          and Con-                              expenditures
          sultants'                             for services of
          services                              consultants
                                                residing within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of other
                                                consultants and
                                                experts
     (b)  Salaries               1,170,000      100% until
          of pro-                               June 30, 1990;
          fessional                             75% thereafter
          staff re-                             and until
          ferred to                             June 30, 1991;
          in Part A                             50% thereafter
          (b) (i) of                            and until
          the Project                           June 30, 1993;
                                                and 25% there-
                                                after
     (c)  Salaries                 790,000      100% of local
          of pro-                               expenditures
          fessional
          staff re-
          ferred to
          in Part A
          (c) of the
          Project
(4)  Studies,                   17,200,000      100% of foreign
     research                                   expenditures and
     training and                               33% of local
     fellowships                                expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                11,270,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 74,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the  date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not  exceeding the 
equivalent of $4,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after April 1, 1987; and (b) payments made for expenditures by 
SENAR unless the Bank has been provided with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: 
(i) the Borrower has enacted such legal provisions as shall be required to transform 
SENAR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, into a 
foundation or  into another form of financially autonomous legal entity acceptable to 
the Bank; and (ii) SENAR has entered into the contractual arrangements stipulated in 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and that said arrangements have been 
entered into in conformity with the legal provisions referred to in (i) above. As part 
of the evidence referred to in (b) above,  the Bank may request an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank from counsel acceptable to the Bank.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The central objective of the Project is to improve the responsiveness of 
vocational training to rapidly changing technologies.
     The Project also has three other objectives related to the Central one: to 
reinforce the capabilities of CFMO and SMO to guide policy formulation  and provide 
supporting services to Brazil's national vocational system; to  improve the policy and 
program management and implementation capacities of the Training Agencies; and to 
enhance the quality, relevance and coverage of training provided by the Training 
Agencies.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening Central Policy Management and Technical Support
     This part of the Project will include actions designed to enhance the policy 
guidance and coordination functions of CFMO and the technical support services of SMO, 
and background studies, as and when needed, to effect or follow-up on the following.
     (a)  (i)  CFMO will prepare, put into effect and maintain an updated statement of 
policies for vocational training, including medium-term  parameters for manpower 
training targets and a process for periodic review of the related policies, and will 
establish guidelines delineating responsibilities for training among public sector 
agencies and between the public and private sectors with a view to avoiding wasteful 
duplication in, and promoting cost-effectiveness of, Brazil's national vocational 
training system, and will prepare a support strategy to encourage private sector  
involvement in vocational training; Consultants' services for the above                
(about 24 man-months) will be used.
         (ii)  CFMO will broaden its membership so as to include greater 
representation from the private sector and organized labor.
        (iii)  CFMO will expand and systematize interchange with other agencies 
concerned with manpower, employment and technical education.
         (iv)  CFMO will transfer selected administrative processing tasks and staff, 
as appropriate, to SMO to reduce redundancy and will streamline selected procedures, 
including procedures for encouraging use of the   fiscal incentives available under 
Brazilian Law so as to facilitate provision of training by the private sector.
     (b)  (i)  SMO will establish a revised organization and appoint about  10 
additional professional staff (about 960 man-months) to assist SMO to carry out (ii) 
to (vi) below.
         (ii)  SMO will establish an inter-agency research committee chaired by the 
Secretary of the SMO and comprised of representatives of each of the Training Agencies 
and other selected agencies, to coordinate and approve research proposed by the CFMO 
and the Training Agencies.
        (iii)  SMO will execute several studies on the cost-effectiveness of training 
and alternatives for the future financing of training.
         (iv)  SMO will introduce, in cooperation with the Training Agencies, a 
comprehensive information system for the national vocational training system, and 
systematic guidelines for medium-term planning and for monitoring and evaluation of 
training; training on the above will be included for about 40 staff of the SMO and the 
Training Agencies (25 to be trained locally, 15 abroad), as well as technical 
assistance services (about 48 man-months).
          (v)  SMO will promote expanded development of innovative training  programs, 
methodologies, and materials, including related training for about 28 staff of the SMO 
Page  11
(18 to be trained locally, 10 abroad), as well as technical assistance services (about 
42 man-months) and development of experimental audio-visual materials, including 
production equipment.
         (vi)  SMO will expand dissemination of information on training opportunities 
generally; this will include related training for staff of  the SMO (about 57) the 
employment placement branches of the MOL, the Training Agencies, enterprises and labor 
leaders (about 3,080 trainees to  be trained locally, 221 abroad), and development of 
reference materials on training in Brazil, including supporting equipment.
      (c)  Strengthening of the project management capabilities of SMO, including 
hiring of about 6 qualified professional staff.
Part B:   Strengthening Policy Fomulation  and Program Implementation Capacities of 
the Training     Agencies
 
     This Part of the Project will assist SENAI, SENAC, SENAR and FUNDACENTRO to 
strengthen input into training policy development and execution, enhance 
organizational and staffing effectiveness and improve  the management of training 
programs. The common activities required by each of the Training Agencies are: 
     (a)  to prepare, by mid-1989, detailed policies and strategies to guide  the 
planning and management of training programs over the medium-term to be  translated 
into rolling plans and programs by mid-1990, and expand labor and enterprise 
representation on governing boards and committees; the above will include the 
execution of background reviews to support work on policy and strategy development, 
based on the broader policy statement to be issued by the CFMO under Part A (a) (i) of 
the Project.
     (b)  to complete and to introduce procedures for the periodic review of 
organization and staffing patterns to identify requirements for change and  to form 
the basis for systematic staff inventory, recruitment and career  planning systems, 
including training of about 400 staff in the aggregate  and technical assistance 
services (about 81 man-months) to assist with developing and introducing these 
procedures.
     (c)  to improve management support capacity and processes and, for this, revised 
management processes will be designed in cooperation with the  federal policy-making 
bodies; management information systems will be  expanded (e.g., to include data on 
cost-effectiveness of training, demand for training and alternative arrangements for 
financing training) and incorporated in the new SMO system; planning, monitoring and 
evaluation of training programs will be improved and research capabilities will be  
strengthened. Emphasis will be given to the analysis of existing information and the 
application of findings to policy development and program planning.  Intra-agency 
consultancies will be used to support improvements in management processes. For the 
above, related staff training (about 700  locally and 76 abroad) and technical 
assistance services (about 117 man-months), will be used and priority policy studies, 
research and evaluations will be developed.
Part C:   Improving the Quality and Coverage of Vocational Training Programs
     This Part of the Project will focus directly on training in skills which are 
critical for economic growth and development and, for this  purpose, will assist the 
Training Agencies: (i) to implement a comprehensive  human resources development 
program entailing training, or retraining, for  57% of their technical staff (mainly 
instructors and training administrators); (ii) to assess training requirements, 
develop improved  courses, and increase the stock and upgrade the quality of 
instructional materials; and (iii) to improve or expand physical facilities and 
training equipment so as to provide training for about 483,000 workers (135,000 job  
entry candidates and upgrading of 348,000 existing workers). Specifically,   each 
Training Agency will undertake the following activities:
     (a)  SENAI
(i)
training of about 2,877 staff in vocational training methods 
including, 
methodologies for design and delivery of vocational 
and advanced technological 
training and in training administration 
Page  12
(2,375 local, 502 abroad); related 
technical assistance 
services (about 50 man-months) will be utilized for the 
above;
 
(ii)
executing of occupational analyses in about 25 professions to 
update training 
content; development, testing and introduction of 
about 200 new training 
modules; adaptation, translation and 
introduction of foreign training 
materials (manuals, slides, 
cassettes, etc.); and acquisition and utilization 
of library 
materials; related technical assistance services (about  20 
man-months) will also be utilized for the above; and
(iii)
acquisition and utilization of instructional equipment for 5 new 
mobile 
training units and 33 existing training centers, so 
as to provide training for 
about 19,000 industrial workers (7,000 
job entry candidates and upgrading of 
12,000 existing workers).
     (b) SENAC
(i)
training of about 3,890 staff in vocational training methods 
including, 
methodologies for commercial training in priority 
skills areas and training 
administration (3,710 locally, 180 abroad); 
related technical assistance 
services will be utilized for the 
above (about 435 man-months);
(ii)
execution of occupational analyses in about 35 professions to 
update training 
content, development, testing and introduction of 
about 225 new training 
modules, adaptation, translation and 
introduction of foreign training 
materials and acquisition and 
utilization of library materials; related 
technical assistance 
services (about 150 man-months) will also be utilized for 
the above; 
and
(iii)
upgrading of about 8 existing, and construction of about 29 new, 
training 
centers, and acquisition and utilization of equipment 
for 45 training centers, 
including those mentioned above, and for 21 
mobile units, so as to provide 
training for about 203,000 
commercial and services workers (128,000 job entry 
candidates and 
upgrading of 75,000 existing workers).
     (c)  SENAR
(i)
training of about 2,860 staff in rural/vocational training methods 
and 
training administration (2,810 locally, 50 foreign); related 
technical 
assistance services will also be utilized for the 
above (about 15 man-months);
(ii)
execution of occupational analyses in about 25 professions to 
update training 
content, development, testing and introduction of 
about 175 new training 
modules, adaptation of training 
materials and acquisition and utilization of 
library materials; related 
technical assistance services (about 18 man-months) 
will also be 
utilized for the above; and
(iii)
provision of training for about 248,000 rural workers (8,000 job 
entry 
candidates and upgrading of 240,000 existing workers).
 
     (d)  FUNDACENTRO
(i)
training of about 851 staff in vocational training methods related 
to worker 
safety and training administration (844 locally, 7 abroad); 
related technical 
assistance services (about 120 man- months) will also 
be utilized for the 
above;
 
(ii)
execution of occupational analyses in about 10 professions, 
development, 
testing and introduction of about 50 new training 
modules, adaptation of 
training materials and acquisition and 
Page  13
utilization of library materials; 
related technical 
assistance services (about 128 man-months) will also be 
utilized for the above; and
(iii)
acquisition and utilization of instructional equipment for 1 
training center, 
to upgrade about 13,000 workers and technicians in 
occupational safety.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1990
     through   October 1, 2001                       3,105,000
On April 1, 2002                                     3,085,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
Page  14
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Goods, other than furniture, to be financed under Category 2 of the Table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be grouped, to the extent 
possible, so as to form packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a  margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages that 
will be following in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)  Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(2)  Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other imports taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in  connection with the sale or delivery pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods.  Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
Page  15
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to  the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of:  (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be  levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the  same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest
evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected 
for the award.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to paragraph 2 below, furniture, other goods that cannot be grouped in 
the packages referred to in Part A.2 of this Schedule, and works, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,   advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that the 
contracts so awarded shall not exceed, in the
aggregate, the equivalent of $20,760,000.  
2.   Goods that cannot be grouped in packages estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $8,100, may be procured under contracts awarded on the  basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three  suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures  satisfactory to the Bank; provided, 
however, that the contracts so awarded shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the 
equivalent of $6,700,000.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for furniture, goods other than furniture and 
works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,  $150,000 or more, and 
$300,000 or more, respectively, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the CESA or FESA, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first  
payment out of CESA or FESA in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of CESA or FESA, said 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information  required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower, or a Training Agency, as the case may be, in 
carrying out of studies under the Project or when technical assistance services are 
warranted under the Project, the Borrower or the Training Agency, as the case may be, 
Page  16
shall employ consultants or experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment  shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the  
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
CESA and FESA Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and  (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,700,000 
and to $300,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and  deposited in the CESA and 
FESA, respectively, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in  accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule. The Account Bank shall  authorize withdrawals from 
the CESA or FESA, as the case may be, on the basis of the evidence that the Bank shall 
have reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Account Bank 
shall debit or cause to
be debited CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with the dollar equivalent of the amount 
of the eligible expenditures in question in cruzados, in the case of CESA, or with the 
actual dollar amount or the dollar equivalent of the  eligible expenditures in 
currencies other than dollars or cruzados, in the case of FESA. The aforesaid 
equivalencies shall be determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the 
dollar and the cruzado or such other currency in effect at the time each payment for 
eligible expenditures shall have been made.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, has been duly opened, withdrawals of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of CESA 
and FESA, as the case may be, at such intervals as the Bank shall  specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the  Loan Account and deposit 
into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments 
made out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such 
request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
Page  17
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
may deny any request for a further deposit into CESA or FESA when either of the 
following situations arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
corresponding Authorized 
Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date 
of such notice, will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of CESA 
or FESA: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not  eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, deposit into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the Bank shall 
so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into CESA or FESA shall be made 
until the Borrower shall have made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
CESA or FESA will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from  the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate cancellation 
thereof.
