Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11413-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
MAY 10, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso (A$)
AS 1.00 = US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA   -    Aerolineas Argentinas
AADT -    Annual Average Daily Traffic
AGN  -    National General Audit
AGP  -    Administracion General de Puertos
B/C  -    Benefit Cost Ratio
BOT  -    Build, Operate and Transfer
CVF  -    Federal Road Council
DNV  -    National Highway Directorate
DPV  -    Provincial Highway Directorate
DPVLP -   DPV of La Pampa
DPVSC -   DPV of Santa Cruz
EA   -    Environmental Assessment
EBM  -    Expenditure Budgeting Model
ERR  -    Internal Rate of Return
FA   -    Ferrocarriles Argentinos
FHWA -    Federal Highway Administration of USA
FEC  -    Foreign Exchange Component
FSE  -    Federal Secretary of Environment
GDP  -    Gross Domestic Product
GRV  -    Directorate for Highway Reconversion
HDM  -    Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IE   -    Index of Pavement Condition
ISIT -    Institute of Advanced Studies in Transport Engineering
MBP  -    Management by Program
MEOSP     Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services
NTP  -    National Transport Plan
PCU  -    Project Coordination Unit
SOP  -    Sub-Secretariat of Public Works
SOPyC     Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
SSTP -    Sub-Secretariat of Transport Planning
TATP -    Technical Assistance and Training Programs
TCN  -    Court of Accounts



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................   iii-v
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................................   1
A.    Transport Scope and Demand .................................   1
B.    Transport and Road Reform in the 1990's .....................   3
C.    Issues in the Road Subsector ...............................    4
D.   National Road Sector Expenditure Program ....................   9
E.   Previous Bank Lending Experience in the Transport Sector ....   10
II.  THE PROJECT ......................................................   13
A.   Project Origin ..............................................   13
B.   Project Rationale and Objectives ............................   14
C.    Project Description ........................................   14
D.   Project Costs ...............................................   16
E.    Financing Plan .............................................    18
F.    Economic Evaluation ........................................   18
G.    Project Risks ..............................................   20
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS ...................................   21
A.    Status of Project Preparation ..............................   21
B.    Project Implementation .....................................   21
C.    Procurement ................................................    23
D.    Disbursements ..............................................   26
E.    Accounts and Auditing ......................................    27
F.    Environmental Impact .......................................   28
G.    Monitoring of the Project ..................................   28
IV.  AGREEMENT TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................   31
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions
to Argentina on November 25 to December 11, 1991, and September 25 to October 23,
1992,  respectively.    The missions were  composed  by Mr.  Raul  Auzmendi,  Sr.
Economist (Task Manager), Mr. William Matthey, Sr. Highway Engineer, Mr. John
Dixon, Senior Environmental Economist, Mr. Lucio Caceres, Highway Engineering
Consultant  and Mr.  Manfredo Linder,  Procurement Consultant.   The report was
prepared under the general direction of Mr. Ping-Cheung Loh, Director LA4DR and
Mr. Alain Thys, former Chief, LA4IE, who was succeeded on November 1, 1992, by
Mr. Alfonso Sanchez, Chief, LA4IE. Messrs. Hernan Levy, EA2TP and Luis Pinilla,
LA2IE acted as Peer Reviewers. Mmes. Leo Malca and Dionisia Harris assisted in
the processing of the Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
LIST OF TABLES:
1.1 Modal Composition of Domestic Traffic
1.2 National and Provincial Highway Network
1.3 Traffic Data on National Roads
1.4 National Roads Condition
1.5 Sections Let Out for Concessions in Early 1991
1.6 Some Recent Accords Signed between DNV and DPVs
1.7 Action Plan for Highway Reform - Pilot Province: Santa Cruz
1.8 Action Plan for Highway Reform - Pilot Province: La Pampa
1.9 DNV's Staff and Average Salaries
1.10 Actual and Projected Budgets for DNV During 1991-1997
2.1 Detailed Cost Estimates by Year
2.2 Summary of Technical Assistance and Training Programs
2.3 Economic Indices of the Program Analyzed by ISIT Using HDM Model
3.1 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
CHARTS:
A.  Organization of DNV
B.   Organization of PCU
LIST OF ANNEXES:
1.   Policy Letter of the Government
2.   General Information on DPVB
3.   Regionalization and Decentralization Process
4.   DNV Staff Motivation
5.   DNV Capacity to Execute the Project
6.   Outline of a Manual of Environmental Analysis of Road Projects
7.   Funding of the Road Sub-Sector
8.   Technical Assistance and Training Programs
9.   Flood Emergency Works Program
10. Results of Transport Projects in Argentina
11. Project File
MAPS:
IBRD 24715 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project
IBRD 24716 Region I
IBRD 24717 Region II
IBRD 24718 Region III
IBRD 24719 Region IV
IBRD 24720 Region V



iii
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    The Argentine Republic.
Executina
Agency:      National Highway Directorate (DNV).
Amount:      USS 340.0 million equivalent.
Terms:       Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Prolect
Description: The project, within a sectoral context, would include a four-year
tranche (mid-1993 to mid-1997) of DNV's routine and periodic
maintenance, as well as road reconstruction needs, which represents
over 90% of the program cost. It will also include flood emergency
works which amount to 3.5% of project cost. The project contains a
major technical assistance and training sub-component aimed at (a)
strengthening the Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
(SOPyC) for its important role in establishing policies and goals in
the road sector, (b) strengthening DNV, and particularly its regions,
for the new role it has to play with regard to supervision of
concessions, technical leadership, coordination and support of the
Provincial Highway Directorates (DPVs), road research, environmental
impact assessment, (c) improving the capability of DPVs to plan,
manage and execute roadwork properly, and (d) reinforcing DNV's
capabilities in carrying out national programs for traffic safety,
control of vehicle weights and dimensions, and other activities of
such scope that it is not advisable to assign oversight responsibility
to each province. The project would also support the preparation of
a Manual on Environmental Assessment of Road Projects to be
systematically used in DNV and disseminated to DPVs.  The project
would, in addition, provide for acquisition of related equipment, and
technical assistance to study alternative options of a proposed
transport link between Argentina and Uruguay. Retroactive financing
in the order of US$10 million for expenditures incurred after August
31, 1992, is envisaged complying with relevant Bank rules.
Benefits:    Avoidance of major road reconstruction costs and cost savings to road
users will be the major noticeable benefits, but, equally important,
significant benefits would also derive from the institutional reform
program, although not easy to quantify.  In particular, significant
benefits are expected from the long effects of better Environmental
Assessment (EA) of road works.  The former, as is normally the case
with maintenance works, would amply justify the project; average
economic returns are as follows:   for asphaltic paved roads the
average ERR is about 30%, for unpaved roads the average B/C ratio !,
at an opportunity cost of capital of 12%, is 2.5 and for the repair
of cement concrete roads the average ERR resulted in 46%.
I/ For mathematical reasons, in the economic evaluation of some of the works
on unpaved roads the ERR gave either multiple or no solutions; therefore, B/C
was used as the economic indicator.



iv
Risks:        Since project components involve proven technology and there is enough
experience in the country performing the type of work envisaged,
technical risks connected with the project are minimal. The most
important risks relate to the capacity of DNV to execute planned works
and contracts, the sustainability of the institutional changes,
including the ongoing concession program, and the availability of
counterpart funds. It is estimated those risks are low and would not
affect project execution (para. 2.24).
Estimated Proiect Cost
(in Millions of US Dollars at October, 1992 prices)
Local      Foreign       Total    Foreign cost
Cost        Cost         Cost      as % of Item
Paved Roads:
Reconstruction                     23.4        19.1         42.5      45
Periodic Maintenance
Concrete Pavement Repair           1.8          1.4         3.2      45
Asphalt overlays                  45.4        37.1         82.5      45
Bituminous Surface Treatments   24.8          20.3         45.1      45
Slurry Seals                      44.2        36.2         80.4      45
Sealing                           37.4        30.6         68.0      45
Pavement Striping                  5.6         8.4         14.0      60
Routine Maintenance                66.0         54.0       120.0      45
Unoaved Roads:
Periodic Maintenance
Regravelling                       5.5         4.5         10.0      45
Routine Maintenance                22.0         18.0        40.0      45
Flood Z- raencv Works               11.0          9.0        20.0      45
Consultina Services:
Detailed Engineering                4.4         0.5          4.9      10
Supervision                        10.1          1.1        11.2      10
Technical Assistance,
Studies & Training                  8.6          5.0        13.6      37
IguiDont
Office & Communication              0.0          0.6         0.6      95
Vehicle Weight Control              0.0          0.3         0.3      95
Traffic Counting                    0.0          0.4         0.4      95
Road Condition Rating               0.1          2.2         2.3      95
Base Cost                          310.3       248.7        559.0      45
Physical Contingencies              18.7         15.3        34.0
Price Contingencies '               27.5        22.5         50.0
Taxes                              113.0          0.0       113.0
Total Cost                         469.5        286.5       756.0      38
2/ Based on 6% local cost increase during 1993 and 4% p.a. thereafter, and for
foreign exchange 4% p.a. throughout.



v
Financino Plan:
(in Million US Dollars at October 1992 Prices)
Local      Foreign    Total          % of
(FEC)                   Total
Government                         416.0         0.0        416.0         55
World Bank                         53.5       286.5        340.0         45
Total                             469.5       286.5        756.0        100
Source:  SOP, DNV
Estimated Disbursements (in USS million)
(Bank Fiscal Years)      94      95        96      97      98       99      00
Annual                  88.9    131.1    74.9   23.8    14.3         6.0    1.0
Cumulative              88.9    220.0   294.9  318.7   333.0    339.0  340.0
Economic Return:  30% average ERR for asphaltic paved roads; 2.5 average B/C for
unpaved roads; and 46% average ERR for cement concrete roads.



I



I   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport Scope and Demand
General
1.01        The transport sector plays a crucial role in the economy of Argentina.
Estimates indicate transport costs represent on average about 8% of total gross
production costs, and nearly 6% of the aggregate value of Argentine exports. During
the period 1985 to 1991 the sector represented about 6% of GDP, and 12-16% of public
sector investment. The Government consequently give. high priority to improving
sector oporations, coordination, and efficiency as any bottlenecks could easily and
severely damage the country's economy.
1.02        The transport system is shaped by the main features of the country,
namely:   (a)  its large expanse of approximately 2.7 million sq. km;  (b) a
predominantly flat terrain; (c) the lack of major natural impediments; (d) a
concentrated population and economic activities in a few large cities (70% of a
total population of 33 million live less than 600 km from Buenos Aires, an area
generating close to 85% of GDP); (e) the dispersion of the rest of the population
in a large number of small, and often remote urban centers; (f) the relatively low
average hauling distances for major bulk export commodities, notably grains; and (g)
the scarcity of natural deep water harbors.
1.03        To meet transport demand, the country first developed a number of
railroads of which 34,115 km of railway lines now remain, with some constituent
parts dating from 1857. With the advent of motorized vehicles, an improved road
network was developed, now consisting of about 38,000 km of national roads and
almost 180,000 km of provincial roads. There are, in addition, 17,000 km of trunk
pipelines, 46 ports and terminals, and 65 commercial airports. A number of railway
lines are uneconomic and a significant amount of dredging is required at the ports.
1.04        Transport services are provided by a large, privately-owned fleet of
trucks and buses, a publicly-owned railway (although a large number of sections are
being privatized), a mix of public and private maritime and river shipping
companies, two major airlines (one private and the other recently privatized), and
several regional airlines. Transport operations have been adversely affected by:
(a) chronic macroeconomic instability and slow growth since 1940; (b) inefficient
public enterprises, especially railways and ports; and (c) major cuts in public
expenditures to reduce severe fiscal deficits.   The latter has caused serious
maintenance problems (para. 1.08).
1.05        Transport demand has kept pace with economic development in the country.
Table 1.1 shows that during the period 1985-90, the general growth trend for freight
was about 1% per year but that there was an annual average decrease of about 4% per
year for passengers. However, consistent with the general recovery of the economy,
there was a significant increase for passengers of over 7% in 1991. Road transport,
sometimes beyond economic justification, represents the dominant mode for internal
transport (69% of interurban freight, 83% of interurban passengers, 100% of urban
freight and 88% of urban passengers). Railways' share is a very modest 10-12% in
each of the three businesses in which it participates (urban passengers and
interurban passengers and freight), while fluvial and coastal shipping carry about
21% of interurban freight and air transport handles about 7% of interurban
passengers. Shipping lines and airlines carry most of the international trade and
passenger traffic, respectively.
1.06        Historically, planning and inter-modal coordination in the transport
sector have been weak. Formerly, the considerable independence of the Government's
modal transport agencies, sometimes under different ministries, obstructed the
integration and consistency of transport plans and policies.  Under the current
Administration, this situation promises to be substantially improved because all
transport agencies now report to one single ministry, the Ministry of Economy and



2
Public Works and Services (MEOSP), although the transport sector setup for policy
making remains uncertain because of insufficient coordination between the
Secretaries of Transport and Public Works, and between the Federal and Provincial
Governments. Significant improvements in the short term, are to some extent impeded
because of the transfer of major responsibilities now underway during the current
transition period of privatization of public sector enterprises.
The Roads Network
1.07        Table 1.2 shows that the extensive Argentine road network, in 1991,
consisted of about 38,000 km of national roads, 28,600 km (75%) paved, and 178,700
km of provincial roads, 33,200 km (19%) paved. It also shows that 67% of the paved
national road network is constructed of asphaltic concrete, 30% of bituminous
surface treatment and 3% of portland cement concrete. With the exception of 573 km
of four-lane sections, the roads are two-lanes wide. Seventy nine percent of the
national network lies in flat terrain, 17% in rolling terrain and only 4% in
mountainous areas. In summary, 57% of the total national network, carrying about
70% of the total national network traffic volume measured in vehicle-km, is composed
of two-lane roads on flat terrain with bituminous pavement. The general traffic data
on national roads and the 1991 AADT (Annual Average Daily Traffic), shown in Table
1.3, confirm that there exists a large traffic concentration in the vicinity of
major nodes such as Buenos Aires, and, to a lesser extent, Rosario and Cordoba
(served by freeways and multi-lane roads) and low to moderate traffic on the
remaining links (two-lane roads).  As a result, urban congestion is becoming a
problem especially in Buenos Aires. Following the trend in the economy, traffic
volumes decreased significantly in the 1980s, followed by a robust recovery in 1991
- 1992.
1.08        The combined national and provincial highway networks generally satisfy
the basic demands for road transportation in the country with the exception of some
localized problems such as road access to major cities, notably Buenos Aires. An
inventory of the characteristics of the national network, classified also according
to type and level of traffic served, is maintained and updated continuously by the
National Highway Directorate (DNV). Availability of similar data for the provincial
networks varies considerably among the different provinces. Erratic availability of
maintenance funds in the 1980s, aggravated by bursts of severe inflation and
inconsistent policies regarding the way road maintenance is performed, brought the
network to a general unsatisfactory condition. Table 1.4 shows that nearly 55%-60%
of the paved national network, and similar percentages of a sample of provincial
networks, is in fair or bad condition. Although the information is not available for
the rest of the provincial networks, visual inspections confirm the situation as
possibly even worse, Clearly, the number one priority in the road subsector is to
meet maintenance needs, a policy to which the Government is now fully committed.
1.09        Until 1991, planning, design, construction, and maintenance for the
national highway network were the exclusive responsibility of DNV, under the
supervisory authority of the Secretariat of Public Works and Communications (SOPyC),
currently in the MEOSP. The work was carried out by 24 district offices reporting
to DNV's central headquarters in Buenos Aires.  Provincial Highway Directorates
(DPVs) performed similar roles and work in each of the provinces. The coordination
between DNV and the DPVs at the national level was carried out by the Federal Road
Council (CVF), integrated by representatives of both kinds of institutions, but it
was mainly limited to administrative matters related to appropriation of funds.
However, informal yet often effective coordination was maintained on an ad-hoc basis
between the DNV districts and the DPVs.
1.10        The manner of duplicating the responsibilities for similar highway
activities among national and provincial agencies, managing separate networks,
resulted in inadequate planning, sub-optimal use of resources and installed
capacity, inferior production, costly administration, and lack of coordination. The
Bank's transport sector work (ARGENTINA: Transport Sector Public Enterprises,
October 1988) identified this problem and made recommendations along lines similar



3
to the major reform program which is now being implemented by the Government in the
road subsector (para. 1.13).
B. Transport and Road Reform in the 1990's
1.11        A major objective of the current administration is to increase public
sector efficiency. The Government thus has launched a major reform program of the
State aimed primarily at reducing overall public sector size and expenditures. The
principal mechanisms used are privatization, deregulation, and decentralization.
In the transport sector this includes:
(i)   achievements  in:  (a)  privatizing  the  largest  national  airline
Aerolineas Argentinas (AA); (b) concessioning five major freight rail
branches of Ferrocarriles Argentinos (FA) of a total length of 20,700
km, or around 60% of the rail network; (c) concessioning of all rail
commuter services in Buenos Aires, including the subway; (d)
concessioning of an interurban passenger rail line of about 400 km; (e)
involving the private sector (through concessions) in managing the
maintenance and rehabilitation of about 25% of the national road
network; (f) deregulating the road transport; and (g) transferring to
local governments a number of ports previously managed by the federal
agency Administracion General de Puertos (AGP) -- including the major
port of Buenos Aires, being transferred to the Municipality, and some
50 small and medium-size ports to their respective provincial
Governments.   The above mentioned efforts have been particularly
successful in railways (supporting a tranche release of US$75 million
equivalent of Loan 3291-AR, Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan),
in road transport (with the likely impact of reducing transport costs,
especially for agricultural exports by about 15%) and, to some extent,
in roads (para. 1.12) and ports; with respect to the privatization of
AA, several problems have occurred which makes the future rather
uncertain.
(ii) continuing efforts to: (a) reform FA through the privatization of all
possible activities, and rationalization, divestiture or closure of the
rest; (b) privatize the national maritime company ELMA; (c) reform the
highway subsector (para. 1.13); and (d) decentralize the port subsector
by creating autonomous port authorities in the remaining major ports
that will report to local governments, while maintaining a greatly
reduced AGP with mainly regulatory functions, as mandated by the new
Port Law, approved in May 1992.
The first major actions for this far-reaching reform program were taken at the
beginning of 1991, and the process has gained momentum. It is premature to reach
definitive conclusions, but by December 1991 the total FA staff decreased by almost
30% compared to January 1990.   Preliminary results indicate that the railway
concessionaire of the first freight branch is providing service with only 25% of the
previous staff. As expected, in 1991 and 1992 the FA deficit remained at about the
same level of the previous year (US$600 millions) due to some slowness in the
concessioning program and payment of severance commitments to employees taking
retirement. Following the cargo line privatizations and the concessioning of the
metro rail, budgetary support is expected to decrease to a range of US$100 to 150
million per year. The approved 1993 budget includes a mere US$140 million.
1.12        At the beginning of 1991,  the Government was preoccupied by the
unsatisfactory conditions of the national road network and the scarce resources
available.  A decision was made to privatize part of the works through concessions
of road maintenance of specific sections in exchange for toll revenue the private
investor was authorized to collect.  This represents a major change in the road
subsector and aims to improve overall efficiency, ensure that maintenance



4
contractors are responsible for the execution of their work, improve road
conditions, and reduce the fiscal burden on the National Tr-asury. The toll fee was
initially established by the Government at about US$2.50 per 100 km, to be adjusted
periodically for inflation. The concessions remain in force for 12 years, with the
concessionaire responsible for maintaining the road at a certain Index of Pavement
Condition (IE) specified in the legal documents. Some 9,000 km (Table 1.5 and IBRD
Map 24715), or about 25% of the national network, has been concessioned on a
competitive basis. A section of about 600 km of Route 22 is slated for inclusion
as well. This total of around 10,000 km is considered by the Government an absolute
maximum.  The current reduced level of the allowed toll fee, the Government's
decision to exclude subsidies on new concessions, and the lower traffic volumes in
the remaining road sections make toll collection unattractive for the recovery of
private  investments.   The  system,  which  started  in  1991,  had  some  initial
difficulties as a result of: (a) popular reaction against what was considered an
excessively high toll fee compared to perceived user benefits; (b) legal arguments
over the constitutionality of the system; (c) insufficient supervision of the
concessions; and (d) consensus on the need to review the road user charge system in
light of the extensive application of the new tolls. Consequently, the toll fee was
reduced to about US$1.00 per 100 km with a subsequent major revision of the other
contractual obligations of the concessionaire. In January 1992, DNV was committed
to carry out the technical and financial supervision of all the concessions. A
procedure was also established to let the user present claims to DNV related to
concessions.    Although it is premature to reach definite conclusions on the
results, after these adjustments, the system now appears to run properly. Recent
surveys confirm that a high percentage of road users are beginning to recognize the
advantages of the system.  One positive outcome is that road users, the silent
majority for many years, have now an opportunity to express their views about a
service they directly finance.
1.13        The Government is also starting major reforms in regards the remaining
28,000 km of the national road network for which maintenance will not be let for
concession. Specified in Presidential Decree No. 616/92 of April 10, 1992, this
reform has substantially changed the role of DNV.  An objective of the reform
program is to strengthen the five Regional Offices of DNV (IBRD Map 24715). Also,
the participation of the provinces  is to be greatly enhanced.   This should
facilitate better communication and coordination with the provinces.  Presidential
Decree 616/92 establishes that the role of the DNV as one of technical leadership,
national road planning (including access to large cities), allocation and auditing
of financial resources for national highways (including funds for the DPVs),
technical and financial supervision of road concessions, road research,
environmental impact analysis, standardization of road maintenance and construction
(both by contracts),  and training and transfer of technology to DPVs.   The
jurisdiction over the national network remains with DNV.  However, in the non-
concessioned network it will increasingly delegate the execution of road works to
the DPVs. Since both levels of government perform and manage similar functions, the
potential increase in cost-effectiveness through delegation of work and
responsibility is high.
C. Issues in the Road Subsector
1.14        The major issues identified in the road subsector comprise: (a) the
implementation of the reform program in the highway subsector; (b) adequacy of funds
for road maintenance in the future; (c) availability of needed local counterpart
funds for project financing; (d) sustainability of the existing system of carrying
out maintenance by private concessionaires; (e) adequacy of the road user charge
system under the current intensive and widely dispersed application of road tolls;
(f) how to improve staff motivation in DNV; and (g) lack of systematic analysis of
the environmental impact of road projects. The Government issued a policy letter
and a plan of action (Annex 1) that adequately address the major issues. However,
there remain constraints to actual implementation of the reform program. Highlights



5
of the policy letter concerning the road sector are:   (i) confirmation of the
current road concessioning program; (ii) road maintenance is the highest priority
in the sector; (iii) annual allocation of funds for routine road maintenance would
be in the order of US$40.0 millions for the non-concessioned network; (iv) Build,
Operate (Maintain) and Transfer (BOT) systems may be applied to road construction
with the purpose of reinforcing the responsibility of the contractor; (v) road
accesses to major cities, excluding Buenos Aires, would be transferred to the
provinces for their privatization through toll collection; and (vi) by mid-1993, the
Federal Government will concession road accesses to Buenos Aires to more than one
firm. At appraisal. the Policv letter was discussed and agreed, and it was later
confirmed at necotiations.
1.15        Constraints to Imolementation of the Reform Proaram. Although the legal
framework is adequately provided by Presidential Decree 616/92 as well as
legislation concerning concessioning of road works, successful implementation of the
major institutional reform requires, in addition to careful planning and adequate
resource allocation, fundamental changes in the roles played by the key agents: DNV,
DPVs, the private sector, and the road users.  The main tasks which need to be
accomplished, and which are discussed further below, are to: (a) remedy the present
precarious conditions of the network; (b) reorient DNV management toward controlling
work assigned to private concessionaires and DPVs; (c) improve interaction between
DNV and the DPVs; and (d) strengthen and encourage the DPVs to discharge their
expanded responsibilities. Implementation of the plan of action will require a long
period (at least 3 to 4 years) because: (a) the capabilities of the different DPVs
in the country vary widely, with a handful of provinces able to undertake bigger
responsibilities, but with the majority requiring technical and management
strengthening to cope with the expected workload increase (Annex 2); and (b) the
current condition of the national road network requires an enormous initial effort
to bring the roads to adequate standards so as not to unduly increase the initial
workload eventually delegated to the provinces.
(a)   ImDrovement of the Road Network Condition.  This is now in part the
responsibility of the private firms who were awarded concessions. The proposed
project would support the physical reconditioning of the other road sections for
which maintenance and operational responsibility may be transferred to the DPVs.
(b)   DNV Manacement Reorientation. The organization of DNV is in the process
of being changed to evolve into an institution responsible to provide general
leadership, planning and coordination in the subsector, but with limited
responsibilities in the execution of road works. The program for the transfer of
responsibilities from DNV to the concessionaires is progressing, and the proposed
project will assist in strengthening DNV's capability in carrying out the technical
and financial supervision of concessions through a technical assistance program. The
new organization of DNV (Chart A) has a Directorate of Highway Reconversion (GRV)
to deal specifically with the program of mutual cooperation between DNV and DPVs.
This is in keeping with the Central Government's  recent intensification of the
signature of accords with the provinces for works of mutual interest (Table 1.6).
The policy letter (Annex 1) includes a plan of action to transfer responsibilities
from DNV to DPVs.
(c)   Interaction between DNV and DPVs. In the context of the overall road
network in Argentina, DNV has been weak in providing leadership to, and coordinating
with the DPVs, mainly as a result of the unbalance between its staffing and
available resources and the amount of work for which it was responsible. Although
with some exceptions (as in the Province of Santa Cruz, where the DPV has been for
years in charge of the maintenance of most of the national road network in that
Province), cooperation and technology transfer between the national and provincial
road agencies have not been systematic, and the joint efforts have been generally
the result of aiming to solve specific problems through personal contacts between
officers of the two agencies. In the framework of the reform program, the
interaction between DNV and DPVs has to be substantially improved so as to encourage



6
the former to delegate to the latter, while providing the incentives needed to have
provincial authorities accept a greater degree of involvement and oversight from
DNV.   Although the proposed project does not include any loan financing for
provincial roads, provincial road financing is contemplated in the ongoing
Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR), and the institutional strengthening
of the DPVs, an objective of the proposed project, is one of the qualifying criteria
for becoming a beneficiary of that Loan. In addition, the increasing participation
of provinces in executing and managing works on national roads will permit their
access to the financing under the proposed project for those kind of works, to be
executed under accords with DNV, and so strengthen their capabilities. With the
intention of monitoring more closely the main characteristics of the reconversion
program and learn lessons to be later applied to other provinces, acreement was
reached that two vrovinces. Santa Cruz (DPVSC) and La Pampa (DPVLP). would
particiiate in a more focussed institutional development vilot effort. The selected
provinces are in a different degree of co-participation with DNV, are representative
of Argentine provinces, and specific plans of action have been developed for each
province to monitor the transition process (Tables 1.7 and 1.8).  For the DPVSC
(Table 1.7), the main objective is for DNV to delegate by 1995 through negotiated
accords, 100% of routine maintenance of the National Road Network in that Province
in accordance with the new standards fixed by DNV for that kind of activity, which
are higher than the present ones followed by the Province. Another objective is the
delegation to DPVSC of the execution of detailed engineering and field inspection
of road works; for this purpose, it was selected the section of R3, between limits
with Chubut and Caleta Olivia, whose detailed engineering will be completed by DPVSC
by the end of 1993 and its supervision by the end of 1994. Finally, during 1993,
vehicle load control and road inventory on National Network will be delegated to
DPVSC. Similar conditions apply to DPVLP (Table 1.8). Every year an evaluation of
the achievements of the two Provinces will be carried out as indicated in paras.
3.30 (a) and 3.31.   At neaotiations it was also confirmed that a part-time
consultant will be incorporated in the PCU (para. 3.051 not later than November 30.
1993 with the sole oblective of ireparina  vroaress  reports  on the overall
reconversion oroaram for Bank review during the biannual supervision missions (para.
3.30).
(d)   Strenathenina DPVs and Encouraaina Cooperation. The DPVs will gradually
become responsible for managing the contracted works in the sections of the national
road network located within each province. Limited current capability exists in
this area in most provinces (Annex 2). The proposed project aims to support the
strengthening of provincial capability through a broad technical assistance and
training programs, and technology transfer among highway agencies.
1.16        Fundina  of  Road  Maintenance.  Actual  maintenance  expenditures  in
Argentina are substantially lower than those required (only 35% of the requirements
have been met during the last years). Argentina is not an exception to the general
findings of a recent Bank report (Infrastructure Maintenance in LAC: The Cost of
Neglect and Options for Improvement, LATIE, June 1992), which concludes that the
condition of the LAC networks are poor (almost 2/3 of the Argentine national network
is in poor condition), and consequently the estimated total cost of removing the
backlog and preventing its further accumulation is high (over US$1 billion for the
next four years). But the low expenditures on road maintenance in Argentina is not
a result of inadequate cost recovery in the road sector (para. 1.19). For many
years, part of the road user taxes in Argentina had been earmarked for road
construction and maintenance; however, this practice has been entirely eliminated
by this Administration in favor of central revenue management (Annex 7). The
argument for an exception to the central management of funds would be the crisis
nature and magnitude of the infrastructure maintenance problem, and the high cost
to the economy of not solving it. The LATIE report recommends that:
-     a portion of road-user charges be earmarked to cover the total needs
for removing the maintenance backlog and preventing its further
recurrence;



7
-     these funds should be paid directly into a trust fund managed by the
ministry responsible for the road network; and
-     funding for road improvement and new construction should not be from
the earmarked funds but should continue to be provided by general
budgetary allocations.
During appraisal and negotiations, this concept was discussed. and the matter is
under consideration by the Government. In the oolicv letter (Annex 1. cara 2-5 c)i
a sDecial mention is made of the high prioritv attached by the Government to road
maintenance, and that adeauate funds, of the order of USS40 million 2er year Ibased
on averace values in the country). will be allocated for routine maintenance for the
non-consessioned network in forthcomina budgets. This should be considered as a
minimum, which might need to be increased if any of the maintenance works oresentlv
being carried out under concessions were to revert to the oublic sector.  Also
transfers of roads from/to DNV to/from DPVe could affect the total lenath of the
national network. and conseauentlv said amount should be adiusted orvoortionally.
At neaotiations, acreement was reached that in the future enouah funds will be
allocated in the national budget for road maintenance.
1.17       Availability of Countervart Funds. Recent Bank projects have experienced
difficulties in the Government providing timely and adequate counterpart funds to
complement bank financing. The proposed project would require a major financial
effort on the part of the Government of US$416 million during an implementation
period of 4 to 6 years.   Based on a program of project activities agreed at
negotiations, counterpart funds would be in the order of US$52 million for 1993 and
would peak at about US$129 million in 1994 and 1995, decreasing gradually
afterwards. In the Budget for 1993, recently approved by Congress, all proposed
project components for 1993 are included.  They represent over 60% of the total
works to be started in the Plan. For works, the total approved amount is US$280
million, which includes US$140 million for ongoing contracts, US$40 million for
routine maintenance, and US$100 million for works to begin in 1993, a good part of
which would be the components of the first year of the proposed project. This last
amount compares favorably with the above mentioned counterpart requirement of US$52
millions for 1993. At negotiations, assurances were aiven that the Government will
Provide the reauired local funds on schedule. durina the oroiect life.
1.18        Sustainabilitv of Road Maintenance by Concessions.  As indicated in
para. 1.12, about 25% of the national road network, at present, is being maintained
by a system of concession agreements which are supposed to last 12 years. In this
system --unlike the traditional way of paying the contractor for works performed in
accordance with previously-agreed technical specifications-- the concessionaire has
the responsibility of maintaining the road at a condition (IE) specified in the
concession agreement; however, the concessionaire will determine the road works most
suitable to achieve that condition, within a general framework of a road work
program originally agreed as part of the concession terms. Given the special nature
of this setup, the technical and financial oversight function by the Government
becomes critical.  This was only weakly performed during the first year of the
system, due to the then responsible ministry failing to complement DNV's technical
oversight with planned financial oversight. At the beginning of 1992, the function
was reinforced by the appointment of DNV as the sole agency in charge of supervising
the concessionaires, which permits it to contract directly for any needed
assistance. At avyraisal. details of the supervisory arrancements of road
concessions by DNV were discussed and it was aareed that the oroanization would be
totally in place by mid-1993.   This was confirmed at negotiations.   Terms of
reference for related technical assistance to reinforce imilementation of this
function were also discussed and agreed.
1.19        Adeauacv of Road User Charges.   The Government has traditionally
followed a policy that road users should pay for the use of road infrastructure
through the imposition of specific ad valorem taxes, mainly on fuel, lubricants,
tires, vehicle registration fees, and vehicles sales. According to a study prepared



8
for the Government of Argentina (Estudio de Cargas al Usuario Vial, 1990), gross
receipts from interurban user taxes during the period 1984-88 have been (except in
1985), higher than the total expenditures (by am much as 17% in 1988) for the
construction and maintenance of the national, provincial and urban highway networks.
Recently, the wide variation in application of toll charges has added another
dimension. Total charges should exceed related expenditures; however, distribution
analysis of road user charges among different types suggests that some users may not
be paying an appropriate share of road costs. The general principle should be that
users pay the full costs of owning and operating their vehicle plus costs of
operating, maintaining, and reconstructing the roadway, which will vary according
to the number and weight of the various types of vehicles. The proposed project
includes an updating of previous studies (Annex 8) with special consideration of
toll charges. At ne-otiations. it was confirmed that this study will be comoleted
by July 31. 1994 and a plan of action for implementina its recommendations will be
sent to the Bank for comments by March 31, 1995.
1.20        Improvement  of DNV Staff Motivation and Adeauacv  of  its Current
Capacity. During the past decade, the morale and relative quality of DNV staff has
deteriorated.   Major  declines  in DNV  efficiency  occurred  due  to  attrition
accompanied by cost-cutting restrictions on hiring of replacement staff because of
the economic problems in the country during the 1980s, low and declining purchasing
power of salaries, worsening career prospects, unavailability of resources needed
to operate, uncertainty about the future of the institution, and lack of job
incentives. The problem has been compounded even further as DNV'a management and
planning capabilities became outdated. The Government has taken the following
actions to address this situation: (a) Presidential Decree 616/92 established
precisely a future role of DNV in the sub-sector; (b) the streamlining of DNV staff
in accordance with its new function (staff has been reduced by around 1,300
employees, or 25% of the previous staff) has been followed with (c) a significant
DNV salary increase approved in August 1992 ranging from 42% to 89% in USS (Table
1.9); (d) the appointment of a capable and experienced general manager selected from
DNV's staff; (e) significant increases in proposed budgetary allocations for DNV;
(f) the Government's decision to proceed with the preparation of the proposed
project; and (g) the recent advertisement in the national press for bidding for over
100 small maintenance projects (half of which will be partly financed by the
proposed project).   These actions, which would facilitate the availability of
resources and bring opportunities for technical enhancement of DNV's staff,
constitute strong incentives to improve staff motivation.  The proposed project
provides technical assistance and training to DNV to strengthen its capacity for the
kind of functions it will perform in the new highway sector setup.   During
appraisal, a detailed assessment of the "still-reorganizing" DNV staff motivation
(Annex 4) and an in-depth analysis concerning the capacity of DNV and other entities
involved in road activities (Annex 5), both in general and with respect to the
proposed project, were carried out. As a result, it was found that:
(i)   staff motivation has significantly improved, although there are still
areas to be reinforced. The following key actions were taken before
negotiations as being of primary importance: (a) definition of the DNV
structure and complete staffing down to the level of divisions: (b)
hirina an individual consultant to evaluate and recommend the future
DNV staffina needs and the transition from the Dresent situation to the
future one, toaether with the vrelaration of TORs for a consulting firm
to greDare the oersonnel oolicv of DNV: and (cI avvointment of DNV
counterparts for the Technical Assistance Program (Annex 81 included in
the oro2osed iroiect. It was also confirmed at negotiations, that the
consultina firm mentioned at the end of (b) above will be hired by
December 31. 1993. The implementation of its recommendations will be
started by December 31. 1994.
(ii) adequate capacity exists in the country to handle the workload for the
next five years, with an adequate and balanced mix of DNV, DPVs,
construction and consulting firms. It was further concluded that DNV



9
has enough capacity to handle all aspects concerning contracting
routine maintenance works, preparation of detailed engineering,
supervision of the simpler works (surface treatments, sealings, slurry
seals and regravelling) as well as the capacity to manage consulting
contracts and accords with DPVs who would be entrusted with the
remaining works.
1.21        Environmental Impact Assessment of Road Proiects. The Argentine highway
agencies do not carry out on a systematic basis, analyses of the impact road works
might have on the environment or an affected community. DNV and DPVs should develop
and use specific, substantive environmental standards and guidelines for road
projects in cases like rerouting roads around highly environmentally sensitive
areas, opening a new area as a result of the construction/improvement of a road, or
choosing environmentally appropriate road construction materials. Road maintenance
works do not represent, in general, major environmental problems.  To identify
potential environmental problems, and take appropriate mitigative measures, the
proposed project includes the preparation of an Environmental Assessment Manual, the
creation of an Environmental Unit in DNV, and training in environmental assessment
procedures for selected DNV staff. Technical assistance to some of the DPVs in this
matter will also be included. The Environmental Unit will depend on the Directorate
of Planning, Research and Control (Chart A), and will have an oversight and/or
clearance functions with respect to projects that pose sensitive environmental
problems.   The Manual, which should be endorsed by the Federal Secretariat of
Environment (FSE) under the Presidency, will clearly specify the rules (standards,
guidelines and procedures) to be followed by the Unit, the rest of DNV, and
contractors. The Unit is at present adequately staffed by a chief and two young
professionals. At negotiations, the Government presented the terms of reference of
the Unit and its staff, which was found satisfacto_y to the Bank. An outline of the
Manual (Annex 6) had been agreed during appraisal. At neaotiations. the Government
oresented a draft of the Manual which was found adecuate: it was agreed that the
completion of the Manual is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
D. National Road Sector Exnenditure Program
1.22        Table 1.10 shows the actual DNV budgets for 1991 and 1992, the committed
for 1993 and that projected for the period 1994-97. The total amount (including
operation, maintenance and investment) for 1991 was low (US$232 million), followed
by a sizeable increase of 70% in 1992 (US$397.2 million), and a further increase of,
on average, over 50% of the committed value for 1992 for each year of the period
1993-97. Based on a work program prepared by DNV, the same table shows that the
proposed project would represent about 20% of the total budget for 1993 (which
includes a significant number of ongoing projects), and 41% for 1994. The share
would gradually taper down to 33%, 16% and 7% in the following years. The following
table summarizes the source of financing for DNV's investment program for 1993-97.
FINANCING OF DNV'S INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
(in millions of US Dollars)
Year          IBRD          IDB          National Treasury        TOTAL
1993         54.5           0.0              281.0 (51.6) l/      336.0
1994        135.0          12.6              289.7(128.5)         437.3
1995        110.8           31.0             311.3(128.6)         453.1
1996          31.6         40.5              328.9 (69.4)         401.0
1997           6.7         40.4              338.8 (39.3)         385.9
-==ss==s        = ====          =.==so ====,
338.6         124.5           1,550.2              2,013.3
j/ Figures in parenthesis represent the required local counterpart funds for the
proposed project.



10
1.23        The financing by the National Treasury of all investments--including
ongoing contracts, works partially financed by the Bank and IDB (an IDB highway loan
is under preparation and scheduled to be approved in early 1994, covering upgradings
of major corridors in the country, which does not pose any conflict with the kind
of works included in the proposed project), and new works without foreign financing
-- would amount to US$280 million in 1993 (as approved in the Budget); for the next
four years the increases in budgetary allocations over 1993 would be kept below 20%
which seems to be reasonable. The values in parenthesis after each year's expected
allocation by the National Treasury to DNV represent the required local counterpart
funds for the project for that year; in 1994, the percentage share of the project
in the National Treasury allocation is the highest reaching 44%, which does not seem
to pose any major problem, provided the expected allocations are approved. Eighty
percent of the projects to be started in 1993 are for road rehabilitation and
maintenance, and the percentage remains high for the following years. All major
elements of the programs are subject to economic evaluation using in most cases the
HDM-III modely.  At neaotiations. the Government agreed to:  (al review with the
Bank, by not later than July 31 in each year startina in 1993. any new investments
to be included in the Annual Road Investment Plan; (b) furnish to the Bank. by not
later than December 31 in each Year startina in 1993. a covy of the Annual Road
Investment Plan to be implemented in the followina year: and (c} inform the Bank of
any chances introduced in any of those Plans. Also. during negotiations, the 1993
Plan was discussed and aareed.
E. Previous Bank Lendina ExDerience in the Transport Sector
1.24        The Bank has been involved extensively in the transport sector in
Argentina (see Annex 10).  Highway development has been supported by five loans
totalling US5319.5 million (Loan 228-AR, June 1961, US$31 million after
cancellation; Loan 619-AR, June 1969, US$25 million; Loan 734-AR, May 1971, US$67.5
million; Loan 1384-AR, May 1977, US$105 million; and Loan 2296-AR, January 1984,
US$91 million after cancellation). Two loans totalling US$122.9 million have been
made to help improve the railway system (Loan 733-AR, May 1971, US$56.5 million
after cancellation; and Loan 1677-AR, March 1977, US$66.4 million after
cancellation).  A single loan for port improvement (Loan 2805-AR, May 1987) was
canceled after only US$8 million had been disbursed as a result of the privatization
of the Bahia Blanca grain terminal (representing about 65% of the total project
cost) and the new port law, which decentralized the port system. Together, these
caused enough changes to make impractical the continuation of the project.
1.25        The results of the highway projects have in general been good. Targets
have been achieved or exceeding for highway civil works, albeit with considerable
delays and in some cases substantial cost overruns. The delays, cost problems, and
accompanying shortages of counterpart funds were generally caused or aggravated by
bursts of high inflation and rapid devaluation. This affected DNV's ability to pay
contractors on time, causing lags in applying for disbursements from the Bank which,
under the Bank's former policy of disbursing at the exchange rate of day-of-
disbursement, in turn reduced the Bank's contribution to civil works in real terms.
It also led to financial failures for some contractors and subsequent contract
rescinding. The protracted execution periods also resulted in the projects spanning
several changes in Governments and consequent discontinuities in DNV management with
attendant changes in policies.
1.26        The highway loans were also largely successful in improving DNV's
planning capabilities; introducing technologies of field surveys to provide traffic,
3/    The Highway Design and Maintenance Model was developed by the Bank with
participation by a number of borrowers. It is a tool for optimizing
different road maintenance strategies by minimizing the summation of
capital, maintenance and vehicle operating costs.



11
road inventory, condition, and sufficiency data; improving organizational efficiency
and management procedures (particularly the earlier loans); and later in having a
National Transport Plan (NTP), a Highway Needs Study, and a Study on Traffic Safety
carried out. The first two loans also provided equipment for road maintenance but
with the institutional progress DNV was believed to have achieved, the last three
loans concentrated more on technical fine-tuning than additional institutional
involvement.  This, in hindsight, may have been unfortunate, since in the early
1980s the Bank was not well positioned to advise or support efforts in contracting
road maintenance, decreasing the size of the force-account field organization, or
transferring 15,000 km of the national network to the provinces, and reclassified
10,000 km of provincial roads as part of the national system. This important change
was not accompanied by adequate increase in funds to the provinces for their
maintenance, and contracting of routine maintenance on national roads did not last
due to internal resistance within DNV and lack of preparation of district staff for
their new role. Nor did Bank projects begin to address the problems of the extensive
provincial road networks and the DNV/DPV responsibilities and relationships until
the Fifth Highway Project.  Technically proficient, DNV was quite successful in
implementing the use of new systems and technology related to infrastructure
planning,  construction,  and management;   however,  neither DNV nor its parent
ministry assumed responsibility for accountability to the road users. In this
context, implementation of traffic safety recommendations and axle-load control
faltered. Preparation of the multimodal NTP provided a major training experience
not only for the highway sector but for the transport sector as a whole. Although
continued use of planning models and criteria developed during the study did not
materialize as intended, NTP made a positive impact on the sector. It served to
train a cadre of transport planners and economists, who can provide leadership in
sector planning and it introduced improved planning techniques suitable for local
transport  institutions and/or businesses.    In 1980,  an attempt was made to
rationalize the activities of Federal agencies and to delegate responsibility to
provincial authorities. As a result, DNV reviewed its classifications of the road
network and subsequently transferred.
1.27        The results of the two railway projects were much less positive.  The
First Railway Project which was to assist the Government make the railway viable
within a modern competitive environment, was canceled in 1974 when it became clear
that no substantial progress had occurred.   Only about a third of the intended
investments were actually made. The Second Railway Project was only slightly more
successful, rehabilitating some main-line track and improving freight car turnaround
time but was plagued by frequent changes in top management, uncertain political
conditions  and  deteriorating  economic  conditions  which  FA,  lacking  the
organizational strength of DNV, was unable to overcome.
1.28        Experience with previous highway lending operations (mainly the first
four) indicates that project implementation in Argentina can be time-consuming with
delays the rule rather than the exception. Much depends on the continuity of the
government and the condition of the economy. Although this has proved difficult to
factor into the implementation plan of a project, the Fifth Highway Project, by
adopting a sector format, was successful, at least in regards national road project
subcomponents, in completing and disbursing the national road allocation on
schedule. The delay in starting the provincial roads subcomponent led a number of
subprojects to extend into the period of hyperinflation, which virtually closed down
all road construction in Argentina.
1.29        The proposed project has been prepared in a sector format to provide
greater flexibility in responding to changing conditions.   The problem of using
exchange rates of day-of-disbursement has been addressed by the use of special
accounts. The proposed project encompasses all aspects of road maintenance and is
expected to result in substantially higher use of maintenance by contract by DNV and
eventually by many of the DPVs. As it provides support for such maintenance over a
four year period, it allows time for adjustments to be made on the basis of
experience within the country, as contrasted to the earlier attempt, which barely
lasted a year before being discarded. The lack of success was also due to strong



12
internal resistance to moving away from force-account operations (and the equipment
ownership it implied) and a disinclination to have anyone but DNV involved with
national roads. The proposed project is the first sizable public-sector operation
on roadworku in several years. As such, it is viewed within DNV and its management
as an opportunity to rebuild along new lines, to the type of technical excellence
DNV formerly enjoyed.



13
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.01        The implementation of the last Bank-assisted highway project (Fifth
Highway Sector Project, Loan 2296-AR) was marred in the late stages by excessive
bursts of inflation. In addition, macroeconomic conditions led to reduced highway
budgets and DNV was prevented from recruiting staff to fill vacancies.   In the
competition for scarce resources, the quantity of maintenance work under execution
diminished and the road network condition deteriorated. The present Government now
has decided to give high priority to  maintenance of existing road and bridge
infrastructure. This is consistent with the conclusions of a recent Bank report
(para. 1.16).   The proposed 4-year program of maintenance,  rehabilitation and
reconstruction works is intended to restore the condition of the Argentine national
highway network within a time frame compatible with revenues the Government can
provide, linked to Bank guidance on how to optimize the program.
2.02        The identification and subsequent evolution of the institutional aspects
of the proposed project originated separately from the physical road maintenance
works the project would finance.   The 1988 Bank study of the transport public
enterprises Sector (para. 1.10) foresaw an eventual need for institutional change,
particularly in the DNV/DPV relationships. Recommendations of this study addressed
the need to upgrade the capabilities of the weaker DPVs as a precondition to DNV
delegating work on national roads to capable DPVs, but received only a lukewarm
reception from many DNV managers.   The rationale was to reduce duplication,
streamline DNV's organization, and improve its focus on introducing technology
updates, research management, and the like.
2.03        Under the present Government, the policy of decentralization was given
additional impetus and the need to prepare the DPVs additional urgency. The concept
of Bank lending for provincial roadwork as well as for national roads was initiated
under the previous Fifth Highway Sector Project. A proposed follow-up project would
have built on this concept as well as support and test the Bank's proposals for
improvements in highway administration in Argentina. However, in parallel with
national policy to contain national government spending through privatization and
public sector reform, the provinces were required to set their financial affairs in
order as a precondition to receiving any supplementary financial credits from
external sources. Bank assistance for this policy has been provided through the
PDP, which inter alia restricts financing to the provinces under that Loan or other
loans that have the same eligibility (eg., Water Supply II, AR-3281). Thus, lending
to the provinces for highways could have only been done in an operation with this
same conditionality.   However,  this did not preclude DNV providing technical
assistance to the DPVs to help them prepare sound programs that later could serve
as the basis for applying for financial credits. The proposed project supports the
strengthening of the DPVs.
2.04        During appraisal of the proposed project, the Government requested that
repairs and replacement of damage to national roads and bridges attributable to the
heavy flooding that occurred between April and July 1992, also be included as a part
of the project.   In June 1992, the Government had requested Bank assistance in
preparation of a flood rehabilitation project to inter alia foster the speedy
recovery of damaged infrastructure in seven provinces. A special Bank mission was
dispatched to work with the provincial officials of the affected provinces. The
resulting emergency Loan 3521-AR, which was approved by the Board September 4, 1992,
provides for onlending to the provinces for financing repairs of provincial
infrastructure but not for those needed on the national roads. The Bank agreed to
the Government's request to include financing for these works (Annex 9).
2.05        The proposed project is considered appropriate and timely, given the
current conditions of the road networks and the prevailing environment of reforming



14
the subsector. In fact, project preparation accompanied the pace of institutional
reforms in the highway subsector.
B. Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
2.06        The proposed project is an integral part of the Bank's macroeconomic and
sectoral assistance strategy for Argentina. This strategy concentrates on the use
of analytical work and lending operations in support of Government efforts to
stabilize the economy, reduce fiscal deficits, increase efficiency in the delivery
of public services, and achieve overall economic growth. Three lending operations
are ongoing to provide the foundation for achieving these macroeconomic objectives:
(a) the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment and Execution Loans (Loans 3291-AR and
3292-AR); (b) the Public Sector Reform Loans (Loans 3362-AR and 3394-AR); and (c)
the Provincial Development Loan (Loan 3280-AR).  The proposed project addresses
major sectoral aspects with significant macroeconomic implicationo, such as:
optimization of road expenditures in infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation
under budgetary restrictions, increasing efficiency in the management of all types
of roads, and the imposition of road planning as the primary tool for budget
definition and strategic management of the entire Argentine road network.   The
expected results include: (a) reduction in vehicle operating costs, which will help
reduce consumption of scarce resources and enhance the international competitiveness
of export products; and (b) preservation of an important national asset like the
road network, which is in jeopardy of being seriously damaged unless urgent actions
are taken for its maintenance and rehabilitation. The Bank's presence in the sector
would bring a beneficial catalytic effect in precipitating policy decisions, without
which Bank assistance might be difficult to implement.
2.07        The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) ensure adequate
maintenance and/or rehabilitation of the present National Road network for those
sections not concessioned; (b) assist with the quality and financial supervision of
the maintenance to be executed by the concessionaires; (c) support the incremental
implementation of the institutional reform of DNV, DPVs, SOP and CVF to respond to
the Government's decentralization policy as well as to changes in national/
provincial government roles regarding sharing road transport subsector management
responsibilities, through (i) the physical reconditioning of the road sections for
which maintenance and operational responsibility may be delegated to the provinces
(thus reducing the initial workload of the provinces), (ii) the strengthening of the
generally inadequate provincial capability to manage road activities through a broad
Technical Assistance program and reinforced transfer of technology among highway
agencies, and (iii) the evolution of an appropriate road planning and financing
mechanism; (d) assist in achieving the optimal combination of provincialization,
privatization, and nationally-supported operations of those road sections that are
of national interest; and (e) support the creation in DNV of an environment unit
with trained staff to prepare systematically and monitor EA when the works warrant,
and to provide future guidance to the DPVs.
C. Proiect Description
2.08        A sector loan format is proposed for this project taking into account
the satisfactory performance of DNV in the previous sector loan (Loan 2296-AR, para.
1.28), the adequacy of the road investment program (para. 1.22), and the suitability
of the economic criteria to select project components (para. 2.23). This flexible
format permits a better adaptation of the project to meet the needs of the national
road network. This is needed because updated road condition and traffic data may
alter investment priorities. It will also facilitate accommodation of progress in
institutional reform during project execution and allow disbursements to be made
more rapidly than through traditional  project  lending.   For the purpose of
transferring to DNV the proceeds of the loan, as a condition of effectiveness the



15
Government shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with DNV. setting up mutual
responsibilities and riahts.
2.09        The project comprises: (a) a four-year tranche (mid-1993 to mid-1997)
of the DNV's road maintenance and reconstruction program for the portion of the
national road network which is not concessioned (regional Maps 24716 through 24720);
(b) flood emergency works (Map 24715); (c) technical assistance for DNV
reorganization and its reconversion program; (d) management training and technical
assistance; and (e) implementation of specific Action Plans in pilot provinces to
transfer know-how and strengthen their implementation capacity (Tables 1.7 and 1.8).
The project would also include the equipment required for implementation of the
various Technical Assistance components.
(a)   Road Maintenance and Reconstruction (90.5% of project cost).
2.10        The optimization analysis for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
asphalt-paved, national road network, using the HDM-III and EBM models, considered
seven periodic maintenance or rehabilitation activities, in addition to regular
routine pavement and roadside maintenance, namely:
-     bituminous sealing
-     single bituminous surface treatment
-     slurry seals
-     double bituminous surface treatment
-     asphaltic concrete maintenance overlay
-     structural (strengthening) asphaltic concrete overlay
-     pavement reconstruction
Table 2.1 presents a summary of the annual costs of the works planned for: (a) the
nearly 18,000 km of paved national roads, which excludes those roads being
maintained under the program of concessions to contractors (para. 1.12); and (b) the
9,000 km of unpaved roads that fall under DNV jurisdiction. Included in the routine
and periodic maintenance costs are the costs of maintenance performed through pilot
operations from which DNV would seek to determine: (a) the types and styles of
contracts or work delegation arrangements for maintenance related operations that
best suit existing capacity and/or social organization of the population; and (b)
the maintenance related technology and developments best suited for Argentine roads
and conditions.
(b) Flood Emergency Works (3.5% of project cost).
2.11        The repair and replacement of damage to road sections and bridges of the
national road network in the provinces affected by the heavy flooding in 1992 are
detailed in Annex 9.
(c) Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Equipment (6.0A).
2.12        These can be grouped as follows:
(i)   consulting firms,  individually contracted engineers or contractual
agreements (Accords) with DPVs to assist DNV in preparing detailed
engineering and DNV's Regions in supervising the works and maintenance
contracts;
(ii) a program of technical assistance and training to help DNIV monitor the
project as a whole, introduce modern management and information
systems, provide technical assistance to the DPVs, and conduct specific
technical studies; and



16
(iii)   office, communication, and special-purpose field equipment for traffic
counting, vehicle weight control, and road condition rating to enable
DNV to implement results of the technical assistance programs.
2.13        The Technical Assistance (TA) and Training Programs comprise a number
of activities that would: (a) carry out specific studies; (b) develop management
tools; (c) support institutional development; and (d) facilitate project monitoring
all required to fulfill project objectives and to address the issues raised in
Chapter I, Section C. These programs are considered essential to support the major
institutional reforms in the sector, and especially to strengthen each organization
involved (DNV, DPVs and SOP) in the new roles they are now required to play. The TA
programs will help DNV in the following areas: implementation of the reform program
(para. 1.15); sustainability of road maintenance by concessions (para. 1.18);
updating of road user charges (para. 1.19); improvement of DNV staff motivation and
adequacy of its current capacity (para. 1.20); and preparation of environmental
impact assessment (para. 1.21). TA would also serve to define: ways to strengthen
the system of vehicle axle load control; ways to improve road traffic safety; and
the management/quality control organizations, systems, and procedures (hence
training requirements and delivery systems) needed for each of the above and to
supervise the work performed by concessionaires. The technical assistance program
will also include financing of background studies related to a major project to
establish a link between Buenos Aires and Colonia, Uruguay, which already has a
partial financing, in a similar amount as proposed, out of an ongoing Loan 3021-UR
to Uruguay; the approximate distance of the link would be about 45 km, and the
Governments are interested in investigating the possibilities of getting
international  involvement through a BOT scheme.   Table 2.2  summarizes those
programs, including their cost, and Annex 8 provides detailed information about each
program.
D.   Proiect Costs
2.14        The total project cost, including some US$113.0 million (about 15%) for
identifiable taxes, and some US$50.0 million in price contingencies, amounts to
US$756 million, with a total foreign exchange component (FEC) of US$286.5 million
(38%). Price contingencies have been determined on the basis of estimated price
increases of 5% for 1993, and 4% for 1994 through 1997. The project cost summary
is shown on page 17 and in Table 2.1. and was confirmed with the Government durinQ
neaotiations.
2.15        The cost estimates for road maintenance and rehabilitation of civil
works are based on quantity estimates for representative conditions in different
parts of Argentina and on current unit prices. These are considered reasonable and
have been confirmed by detailed engineering studies for 1993 projects. The costs
of horizontal pavement striping, which are not included in contract costs, are shown
separately, as this work is performed by a specialized group of contractors, under
an ongoing, "self-financed", contract not eligible for financing under the loan. The
costs of the flood emergency works are based in part on some completed detailed
engineering, and for the remainder on substantially complete preliminary
engineering. The latter costs were analyzed at appraisal and were confirmed during
negotiations. together with the related plan of action included in Table 2 of Annex
9. The cost for detailed engineering and supervision services is the result of a
detailed estimate of consulting service requirements to supplement DNV capacity
(Annex 5), at prices based on DNV experience in contracting for engineering and
supervision services in similar programs. The cost of the technical assistance and
training components, including related equipment requirements, was estimated by
detailed costing of all elements (Table 2.2).
2.16        To estimate the FEC of civil works, DNV calculated the FEC for each
construction or maintenance item for typical operations or programs. The FEC for
consulting services was estimated assuming that contracts would normally be awarded
to local firms, with a limited participation of foreign consultants. For goods to



17
be procured under the program the FEC has been estimated at 95%, net of the 18%
value added tax, based on the CIF prices at port of entry into Argentina and payment
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(in Millions of US Dollars at October 1992 prices)
Local      Foreign       Total    Foreign cost
Cost                              as % of Item
Paved Roads:
Reconstruction                     23.4        19.1         42.5      45
Periodic Maintenance
Concrete Pavement Repair          1.8         1.4          3.2      45
Asphalt Overlays                 45.4        37.1         82.5      45
Bituminous Surface Treatments  24.8          20.3         45.1      45
Slurry Seals                    44.2         36.2         80.4      45
Sealing                         37.4         30.6         68.0      45
Pavement Striping                 5.6         8.4         14.0      60
Routine Maintenance                66.0        54.0        120.0      45
UnDaved Roads:
Periodic Maintenance
Regravelling                      5.5         4.5         10.0      45
Routine Maintenance                22.0        18.0         40.0      45
Flood Emoruencv Works               11.0         9.0         20.0      45
Consulting Services:
Detailed Engineering                4.4         0.5          4.9      10
Supervision                        10.1         1.1         11.2      10
Technical Assistance,
Studies & Training                  8.6         5.0         13.6      37
Ecuipment
Office & Communication              0.0         0.6          0.6      95
Vehicle Weight Control              0.0          0.3         0.3      95
Traffic Counting                    0.0         0.4          0.4      95
Road Condition Rating               0.1         2.2          2.3      95
Base Cost                          310.3       248.7        559.0      45
Physical Contingencies              18.7        15.3         34.0
Price Contingencies '               27.5        22.5         50.0
Taxes                              113.0          0.0       113.0
Total Cost                         469.5       286.5        756.0      38
4/ Based on 6% local cost increase during 1993 and 4% p.a. thereafter, and for
foreign exchange 4% p.a. throughout.



18
by DNV of 5% customs clearance and port costs. Ten percent physical contingencies
on the costs of periodic maintenance and flood emergency works have been provided,
but none for routine maintenance activities.
E.   Financing Plan
2.17        The project will be financed by the Government and the Bank.  The Bank
would finance 52.9% net-of-taxes project cost (45% of total project cost) including
US$53.5 million of local costs, and the Government of Argentina the remainder (see
summary below).
FINANCING PLAN
(in Millions of US Dollars at October 1992 Prices)
Local      Foreign    Total          % of
(FEC)                   Total
Government                        416.0          0.0        416.0         55
World Bank                         53.5        286.5        340.0         45
Total                             469.5        286.5        756.0        100
Source: SOP, DNV.
F. Economic Evaluation
2.18        The proposed project would finance part of the 1993-97 DNV's Investment
Program (para. 1.22) and facilitate major policy and structural reforms as well as
institutional strengthening. The project's benefits would therefore go well beyond
the economic returns on specific individual investments. In particular, the major
institutional reforms in the road sector are expected to improve the management,
administration, and operation of the road system, generating benefits, which
although expected to be significant, will be difficult to quantify. All project
components, with the exception of the Emergency Works and the Technical Assistance
and Training Programs (representing about 9% of total project cost) were subject to
full economic evaluation.
2.19        The original objective of the economic evaluation was to define an
optimum package of maintenance and rehabilitation projects for the whole network of
national roads, excluding the sections already under concession, and within the
budgetary limitations that undoubtedly will continue to exist in the foreseeable
future. As noted, the current poor condition of the network requires large volumes
of resources to bring it to adequate service levels, resources that are and will
continue to be scarce. The economic decision was to include either technically
ambitious projects with a long project life of say 8 to 10 years, or rather more
modest but technically sound projects with shorter lives, which would demand less
resources, thus permitting a much wider coverage of the network. Consequently, a
system analysis was required for the whole network, because the budgetary limitation
made all projects interdependent. The Bank's HDM-III and EBM models were used since
they are suitable for that kind of exercise, and will permit the definition of the
most convenient overall strategy for maintenance of national roads, within budgetary
limitations. The models were primarily used for paved roads, although they were
still considered as a reference for unpaved roads based on experience gathered in
similar cases in other countries.



19
2.20        The HDM model was successfully calibrated to Argentine conditions by the
Institute of Advanced Studies in Transport Engineering (ISIT) at the University of
Cordoba, and by mid-1990 the first investment program was produced applying the
models. Paved road sections in the country were first bunched into about 50 groups,
following a criteria of including sections in each group that had homogeneous
characteristics for traffic volumes, terrain conditions, geometric characteristics,
kind of pavement, current maintenance conditions, etc.   The application of the
models resulted in the definition of a maintenance or reconstruction improvement for
each group of sections out of the seven alternatives mentioned in para. 2.10. In a
second step of the analysis, each individual section of a universe of more than 500
was evaluated taking as input the maintenance or reconstruction improvement
recommended in the first run for the group to which this section belonged, but
including in this second step the actual traffic volumes and projections, costs, and
road conditions of this section, as opposed to average values used for the first
run. The result of this step was the definition of specific improvement work or
adequate routine maintenance for each section. Next, DNV did extensive field work
to verify on site the results obtained in the second step through the application
of the models; in cases of disagreement alternative solutions were proposed. The
result of this verification gave a very high degree of consistency between the
recommendations of the theoretical and practical approaches. In only 15% of the
cases the results differed; in most of these cases the original information input
in the model contained errors. In summary, the general approach followed for the
economic analysis of the system was sound and helped disseminate the use of the
models and provided an opportunity to test the HDM results against practical
experience. For unpaved roads, the methodology was similar but simpler, given the
relatively lesser significance of these types of roads in Argentina (they count for
9% of total project cost), and the limitations of the HDM for unpaved roads.
2.21        The "without-project" alternative selected for the economic evaluation
was the execution of at least routine maintenance in each section analyzed, as the
baseline case.   This was a conservative assumption, because in that way, the
benefits had to be calculated taking a "strong" without-project case as the
benchmark.   If, on the contrary, an actual "do-nothing" case had been assumed,
pavement conditions would have deteriorated rapidly, and the benefits would thus be
overstated. However, to prove the economic feasibility of routine maintenance in
itself, an analysis of sections selected at random was carried out against the do-
nothing alternative, the only logic alternative for this case. As expected, the
results were very high, with economic rates of return (ERR) greater than 50%.
2.22        Table 2.3 gives the ERR or Benefit/Cost ratio (B/C) at an opportunity
cost of 12%, for the different project items. For paved roads the average values
are high, ranging from 21% for slurry sealing to 35% for pavement reconstruction.
This results in an overall ERR of 30%, which largely exceeds the opportunity cost
of capital in Argentina. For unpaved roads, the average B/C ratios at 12% are also
high ranging between 2.5 for gravel roads to 2.7 for earth roadsB'. Finally, the
average ERR for the repair of portland cement concrete roads resulted in a high 46%.
A complete listing of all improvement works for each road section is included in the
Project File, (Annex 11) and comprises the basis for the proposed project investment
program.
2.23        The analysis described above was carried out with cost estimates based
on preliminary engineering. Before calling for bids, detailed engineering will be
prepared for each project. As a final verification, economic analyses in each case
will be done using as an input to the HDM the cost based on detailed engineering and
updated traffic data.   Any subproject  for which no periodic maintenance  (or
reconstruction) alternative yielded an ERR of 12% or more would not be eligible for
financing under the proposed loan, but would revert to the length of roads on which
only routine maintenance would be financed. Also, in the updating of the economic
analyses consideration would be given through appropriate sensitivity analyses to
5/ For mathematical reasons, in the economic evaluation of some of the works
on unpaved roads the ERR gave either multiple solutions or no solution;
therefore, B/C was used as the economic indicator.



20
the possible effects of project risks am they become evident during project
implementation. At negotiations. detailed enqineerina and final economic evaluation
for all subcomRonents of the 1993 proiect proaram were ready or substantially
completed. No major differences in cost exist between preliminary and detailed
engineering since the projects are, generally, straightforward and enough experience
exist in Argentina to support an adequate cost estimate. Traffic volumes in each
section will take into account traffic diverted to or from the railway lines as
currently reorganized.   The proposed project is a sector loan.   As such, some
variation in the road sections that would be finally included in the project are
expected during its implementation. At negotiations. it was confirmed that the HDM
will be used to Prove the economic feasibility of any new sections.
G. Proiect Risks
2.24        Since project components involve proven technology and there is enough
experience in the country performing the type of work envisaged, technical risks
connected with the project are minimal.  The most important risks relate to the
capacity of DNV to execute planned works and contracts, the sustainability of the
institutional changes, including the ongoing concession program, and the
availability of counterpart funds. DNV staff capacity for implementation will be
monitored closely, complemented by provincial (in those cases where provinces have
adequate capacity) and/or consulting firms as necessary. This should, in any case,
be the future trend in DNV;  however, it may take some time to materialize. The
institutional changes have already been decided and supported by the political
authorities and the process seems irreversible.   Therefore, the risks in this
respect are low. For counterpart funding, the Government, as a matter of policy,
attaches high priority to the implementation of this project because it tackles a
major need in the country and will help alleviate the existing high level of
unemployment. In fact, the Government has already included project funds in its
current plans and has officially agreed to provide the resources needed for planned
expenditures, which was confirmed at negotiations.   Another kind of risk, beyond
DNV's jurisdiction, might be caused by inactions or delays in areas requiring joint
efforts by Federal and Provincial Governments, or by the Secretariat of Public Works
and Transport. The Bank should be ready through and intensive supervision effort
to identify specific problems of this nature and to react accordingly.  From an
environmental viewpoint, there is little risk since the program is mainly for
maintenance of existing roads.



21
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Status of Prolect Preparation
3.01        Although the results of the verification between the computer modelling
and inspection approaches show a high degree of consistency (para. 2.20), actual
overlay thicknesses and reconstruction works will require further detailed
engineering, based on field testing of pavement on a section-by-section basis before
awarding contracts. The engineering required for the other, essentially periodic
maintenance work and for routine maintenance contracts would be simpler. It will
comprise an inventory of: (a) pavement patching requirements; (b) shoulder repair
and restoration requirements; (c) roadside and drainage maintenance and repair
requirements (routine maintenance activities); and (d) corresponding quantity and
cost estimates. This work would be executed jointly with the periodic maintenance.
3.02        About 95% of the road length for which periodic maintenance works have
been scheduled for contracting during the first project year are of the latter type,
for which engineering, together with up-dated cost estimates, were prepared by DNV
staff. About 80% of the total work program for 1993 had been prepared for review
during appraisal.   Revisions reflecting comments discussed and aareed with DNV
headguarters staff, and the remaining 20% of cost estimates were completed by
negotiations. In addition, at negotiations, DNV's staff Presented standard routine
maintenance contracts and bid documents, which would be used throughout the project.
This would ensure the maintenance of those portions of the road network for which
no periodic maintenance is scheduled during the project period.
3.03        The summarized terms of reference for the technical assistance Programs
(Annex 8), including studies, related traininc reauirements.  related eguinment
reguirements, and corresponding cost estimates were reviewed during appraisal, and
confirmed during negotiations.
B. Project Implementation
(a) Civil Works
3.04        Primary responsibility for project implementation of the road works
would rest with DNV. Only work performed by contract or by delegation to the DPVs
would be financed from the proceeds of the loan. The delegated works in some cases
would be performed by provincial force account (particularly for unpaved roads) and
in most cases by contracts managed by a DPV. Detailed engineering for the simpler
periodic maintenance of asphalt pavements (para. 3.01) as well as normal repairs to
portland cement concrete pavements would generally be performed by DNV regional
staff or delegated to DPV technical staff under DNV regional supervision.
Supervision of these works also would normally be performed by DNV regional staff.
DNV staff competence for this kind of work is satisfactory. If DNV Regions do not
have sufficient staff with the required capabilities, they would engage consulting
firms or individual consultants, financed as a part of the project. For the asphalt
overlays, reconstruction and more complex concrete pavement repairs, consulting
firms would be contracted under project-specific terms of reference for both
detailed engineering and construc~tion supervision. The engineering in these cases
would require more detailed study of the existing pavement structure and in-situ
soils and would also consider, on a case-by-case basis, the desirability of inviting
alternative bids for portland cement concrete and asphalt options. These consultant
services would be contracted by DNV headquarters.
3.05        With the purpose of reinforcing DNV's capacity to manage the project
(para. 1.20) and, in view of the large number of contracts that would need to be bid
and then supervised each year and the scope of the technical assistance foreseen,
DNV has formed a strong Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage the entire
program. The PCU (Chart B) is comprised of five main sections headed by coordinators
for: (a) procurement control and administration; (b) execution control; (c)
programming and reprogramming; (d) accounting; and (e) technical assistance
supervision. These have been assigned exclusively to the project, on a full-time
basis, and report to the PCU Chief and his deputy, who are directly responsible to



22
the General Administrator of DNV. In addition, a high-level coordinator has already
been appointed in the SOPyC to facilitate the interaction between the Secretariat
in charge of establishing transport sector policy and the executing agency, DNV.
The PCU will also include a transport economist, two assistant engineers, and short-
term consultants to help with specific tasks as needed. For instance, one of these
consultants will be in charge of preparing semiannual reports on the progress in
highway reconversion for Bank review (para. 1.15 (c)). Three of the PCU's senior
staff have already been contracted from outside DNV through long-term contracts.
Other staff needed to inspect activities by the DNV Regions and by consultants are
being provided by DNV's line departments. The salaries of the PCU contracted staff
as well as other overhead expenses for materials and services have been calculated
as a part of the cost of monitoring the program. This is included as a part of the
technical assistance being financed under the loan.  The cost of contracted staff
working with the DNV Regions on the project is included in the costs of engineering
and supervision of works. At acoraisal. functions  resoonsibilities. and staffing
of the PCU were aoreed. and later confirmed at necotiation..
3.06        DNV and its Regions would update the programs of works to be performed
annually as a part of the training program for the DNV regional offices. They would
help develop maintenance management and planning, basically through the use of HDM-
III and EBM, so as to permit quantifications of the costs of alternative funding
decisions and select the best maintenance strategy given the funding constraints,
which are almost inevitable in the short- to medium-term. As part of the project,
DNV headquarters and its regional staff, assisted by consultants, would improve on
the use of the HDM for planning unpaved road maintenance and would try to develop
and introduce a suitable model for concrete pavement maintenance planning, possibly
drawing on work already underway in Chile.
(b) Technical Assistance and Training Proarams
3.07        The new organizational structure of DNV (Chart A) includes a Directorate
for Highway Reconversion (GRV). The GRV is responsible for promoting and overseeing
the delegation to the DPVs once they are capable of assuming the responsibilities
of actions and operations on the national roads. This includes assisting the DNV
Regions with planning resources needed to implement delegation and/or transfer of
responsibilities to the provinces and to supervise how these are carried out. Most
of all, GRV would be responsible for planning and overseeing the training of staff.
As the DNV Regions and their Districts are also expected to assume greater
responsibility for routine planning, engineering and supervision activities,
including management of some consulting services, additional training for these
purposes will also be needed.   The Technical Assistance and Training Programs
(TATP, Annex 8) will provide consultant assistance to GRV for managing the
organization of the training programs and assisting the Regions with DNV contract
consultants to fill organizational positions and provide on-the-job training to
younger staff, when DNV lacks the resources internally. Also, the TATP includes,
as requested by DNV, funds to encourage contacts with road organizations of other
countries (particularly USA, Spain, France), which have similar systems of
cooperation between the federal government and delegated organisms. The objective
is for DNV to learn from the experience of other countries, and thus to facilitate
the transfer to DNV and its personnel of the scope and intricacies of the newly
assigned function.
3.08        Apart from the assistance to GRV in preparing and overseeing training,
the actual training and related services would be provided by a mix of training
seminars or programs that could be entrusted to local universities, specialized
institutions,  consultants,  or previously trained DNV staff.   For maintenance
planning, a technical institute (ISIT) at the University of Cordoba would be
contracted. This institute has worked extensively in calibration of the HDM model
and in its later applications.  Trained DNV staff, with ISIT assistance, would
install the programs at a minimum in DNV's regional centers, which would further
adapt them to regional needs.
3.09        DNV maintenance planning centers would provide assistance to DPVs who
wish to learn how to use the HDM model, with the assistance of universities and



23
consultants. Consulting assistance would also be provided under the project to the
DPVs for the purposes indicated in Annex 8. As the length of paved provincial roads
in many of the provinces is relatively short, some of the DPVs may decide to have
their programs run for a group of them.  The same would apply to the use of
specialized equipment for measuring road roughness and deflections.
3.10        The program of maintenance by concessions includes the control of
vehicle weights and axle loads on the country's more heavily travelled interurban
highways. The project includes a study of how to extend this control to the rest
of the road network (provincial as well as national), including recommendations on
how to staff additional weigh stations.  Assistance from the US Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA) would be solicited in preparing terms of reference for the
study and in organizing a program of visits to the US and other countries in this
connection.  The toll-collecting maintenance concessions also provide excellent
traffic data about the main highways. In contrast, much DNV traffic-counting
equipment is obsolete and the data produced is cumbersome to process. The project
includes a study of replacement requirements of this equipment that would serve both
provincial and national road needs.
3.11        The project would finance consulting services to DNV, specifically to
help prepare an inventory and condition survey of all road bridges in the country
as well as a program for storing and regularly updating this information. Training
in conducting inspections and overseas visits to see how such programs are organized
and managed in other countries would be a part of the project.
3.12        Acquisition of equipment for pavement condition assessment, traffic
counting, vehicle weight control, and bridge inspection eligible for financing under
the project would be subject to prior agreement by the Bank once the necessary
respective studies (briefly described in Annex 8, items 2 (d), 2 (f), 2 (h), and 3
(c), respectively) have been satisfactorily completed.  The project would also
finance the acquisition of computers and fax machines for the regional and district
offices as well as DNV headquarters.
3.13        The results and recommendations of the TA activities will be implemented
during the project as specified for each component in the tentative chronograms
included in Annex 8, Table 1. In general, all studies included in the TA program
for contracting will be carried out by consulting firms, with the possibility of
inviting universities to conduct studies involving the development of specific
methodologies. For short-term studies or those of a specialized nature, there may
be some advantage to hiring individual experts. The training would be addressed to
high-level professional staff responsible for road activities in the various
agencies involved in the project. In addition, the training component would include
the participation of professional staff in international conferences and seminars.
3.14        As a part of the technical assistance to DNV,  a study would be
conducted, lasting about a year and a half, to review the current classification of
highways as "provincial" or "national". This study would require cooperation among
all the DPVs as well as the DNV planning division.  The project would finance
consulting services to assist DNV in this review and in consultation with the
provinces.  At appraisal, terms of reference for this study were reviewed.  At
negotiations. the final version incorooratina Bank comments was discussed and
agreed, and it was also acreed that by not later than July 31, 1995, the Government
will start the imDlementation of the recommendations of the study.
C. Procurement
3.15        Argentine bidding regulations, although in general compatible with most
Bank requirements, have sometimes contained provisions, such as local preference in
the purchase of goods manufactured in the country, which required exceptions when
Bank financing was involved.  In the past, such exceptions were obtained on a
project by project basis by invoking the precedence of Loan Agreements over national
laws. The Government is currently proposing new legislation which would eliminate
those problems, and would become fully compatible with procurement guidelines
commonly used in internationally-financed projects.   It is expected that the
proposed law would be approved during 1993.



24
3.16        DNV is considered to be capable of handling all procurement matters in
the project. The Bank has a long experience with its tender procedures which have
generally been relatively efficient and well managed. However, some procurement
problems existed in the past, but they were solved over time, on a case by case
basis, through a process of incorporating provisions to reflect compatibility with
related Bank guidelines. A complete new set of ICB and LCB bidding documents for
works have been discussed and agreed during neaotiations. Any provisions required
by Argentinean law or regulations, not acceptable to the Bank, have been identified
so that specific exceptions will be made in the loan documents,if necessary.  In
particular, one current problem stems from a national law prohibiting any indexing
of prices. This complicates providing for cost escalation in longer-term contracts.
At negotiations, the Government presented a letter, signed by the Secretary of
Public Works and Services, indicating that it has decided to establish a system to
allow periodic price adjustments in project contracts with an initial duration
longer than one year, and that it will use such system in the applicable bidding
documents. Bidding documents for the purchase of equipment have been reviewed and
found satisfactory, and all procurement of consultant services would be done in
accordance with Bank guidelines  and procedures.    Standard model  letters of
invitation and contracts. both for consulting firms and individual consultants, have
been discussed and aareed at negotiations. Past Bank experience with some of the
DPVs indicate that a good number of them may need help in improving their
procurement capabilities, and the technical assistance to provinces included in the
TATP addresses this matter.
3.17        Civil Works.  Where practical, from both geographical and technical
viewpoints, works would be packaged to the extent possible, so as to minimize the
number of contracts to be bid, supervised and managed. International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would be used for all works individual contracts, as well as packages
of contracts, of more than US$3.5 million equivalent totalling over 50 projects, and
amounting to about US$306 million or approximately 64% of all periodic maintenance
and reconstruction civil works. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), up to an aggregate
value of not more than $336 million (almost 200 contracts), would be used for all
routine maintenance contracts (about USS 176 million) and for other periodic
maintenance and reconstruction works contracts (about US$160 million), valued US$3.5
million or less. LCB would also be used for emergency flood works contracts (about
US$28.5 million) generally below US$3.5 million, given the urgency in repairing the
flood damages. In addition, consonant with the concept of increased delegation of
execution functions to capable DPVs, a pilot program would be tested to have
maintenance executed by the DPVs (about US$31 million) through negotiated accords
under DNV supervision. These accords would be valued about US$1.2 million and will
be eligible for financing under the project. ICB for reconstruction, overlays and
large sealing contract packages would be generally centrally managed by DNV, whereas
LCB would be managed by DNV's regional offices.
3.18        Consultinq Services (about US$36.0 million).  Due to the geographical
dispersion of the works, up to 3 or 4 consulting firms might be required in some
regions to assist DNV and its regional staff with preparation of detailed
engineering and construction supervision, generally for larger or more complex
works. For less complex works, including supervision of routine maintenance, some
regions might need to contract individual consultants to occasionally reinforce the
required capability due to the large number of contracts (in excess of 250) which
would need to be managed. Training activities executed by contract with outside
training agencies, universities or consultant specialists would be eligible for
financing from the proceeds of the loan.   Training provided by DNV training
specialists would not be eligible for such financing, but equipment required to
provide such training would be. Qualifications, experience, selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants would be in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.19        Equipment.   ICB would also be used for equipment purchases costing
US$250,000 equivalent or more, for which there are sufficient established
manufacturers or suppliers (estimated to total about US$2.4 million).  When the
number of suppliers is believed to be limited, DNV would first advertise



25
internationally for potential suppliers to express interest, and based on the
response either utilize Limited International Bidding (LIB) or, in the case of a
single supplier, direct negotiations (which might total about US$1.6 million).
Below US$250,000 equivalent, equipment would be purchased by Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB), satisfactory to the Bank (estimated to amount to US$0.5 million).
All equipment acquisition would be centrally managed.
3.20        Prior Review. During project supervision, Bank-financed works contracts
above a threshold of US$3.5 million (about US$306 million) and the first three civil
works contracts, regardless of value, to be tendered through LCB procedures by each
region (estimated at about US$30 million), would be subject to the Bank's prior
review procedures. The prior review process would cover almost 50 percent of the
total works contract value procured by ICB and LCB (100 percent, ICB; 10 percent,
LCB). Ex-post review would also be conducted on a sample basis (one for each ten
contracts).   The percentage of contracts requiring prior review is considered
satisfactory since (a) DNV gained much experience in previous projects, (b) the
project includes almost 200 contracts (about 80% of the total number) which are
simple, small and repetitive, and (c) this is a sector project and consequently, if
the Borrower decides to award any contract not following the Bank guidelines, it
would not be financed from the loan, but it may be replaced by another project,
taking advantage of the inherent flexibility of a sector project. Goods procurement
for amounts above US$250,000 equivalent would also be subject to prior review,
covering about 55 percent of the total value of Bank-financed goods. Finally, prior
review would also be carried out for all consulting firms contracts valued above
US$100,000 equivalent and for all similar contracts for individual consultants; the
aggregate amount of contracts for consulting firms below US$100,000 is expected to
amount about US$600,000.
3.21        All eligible subproject and consultant's contracts not subject to prior
review by the Bank would be tendered and awarded by DNV,and subject to an ex-post
review by the Bank as described in para. 3.20. Procurement of consultants would be
done on the basis of standard terms of reference and contract conditions previously
reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The time allowed for preparation of bids would
be not less than 45 days in the case of ICB and 30 days in the case of LCB bidding.
All the above vrocurement arrangements. the results of which are summarized in the
followina table, were confirmed during loan negotiations.



26
PROCUREMENT 1/
(in Millions of Current US Dollars)
International       Local
Competitive
Bidding
(ICB)           (LCB)        Other     NBF 2/    Total
Civil Works
Reconstruction       157.0               26.0        --         --        183.0
Repairs & Overlays  (73.8)              (12.2)       --         --        (86.0)
Maintenance:
Periodic           149.1             133.9         --         14.0 3/   297.0
(70.0)            (63.0)        --         (0.0)    (133.0)
Routine             --               176.0         31.0 4/   --         207.0
--                (62.0)      (11.0)      --        (73.0)
Flood Emergency Works--                  28.5        --         --         28.5
--                (13.2)       __         __        (13.2)
Consultina Services   --                  --          36.0       --         36.0
_                 _--         (31.0)      --        (31.0)
Eauipment               2.4                0.5         1.6 5/   --           4.5
(2.0)             (0.4)        (1.4)     --          (3.8)
TOTAL             308.5              364.9         68.6       14.0      756.0
(145.8)           (150.8)       (43.4)      (0.0)    (340.0)
1/    Amounts in parentheses show allocations from loan proceeds.
2/    Not Bank Financed.
3/    Paid by an ongoing pavement striping contract (para. 2.15).
4/    Based on the estimate that about 10% of paved road, and 30% of unpaved road
routine maintenance would be executed by the provinces or municipalities
through negotiated accords.
5/    LIB or direct negotiations (see para. 3.19).
D. Disbursements
3.22        The execution of the extensive road maintenance program would require
disbursements against a large number of small contracts.   The total volume of
individual disbursement operations would seriously strain DNV and Bank capabilities
to handle them in the traditional way. DNV's contracting and payment procedures
have proven adequate, as has its capacity for managing swift and effective project
execution; thus, simple and quick disbursement procedures will be employed.
Consolidated estimated monthly expenditure  statements for the execution   of
regionally managed subcomponents of the maintenance program would be the basis of
withdrawal applications from the Special Account  (para.  3.25).   The monthly
statements would comprise the DNV Region's estimate of expected expenditures
(contract payments) for eligible contracts, determined by multiplying the recorded
or measured physical production by the unit cost for each work operation, updated
on a daily basis by the works supervisors.   The preparation of the monthly
expenditure statements by the civil works supervisors would be monitored by the DNV
Regions, with appropriate consultant assistance financed under the Loan.
Contractor's invoices would be checked and paid during the month and any differences



27
between estimated expenditures and actual payments on each contract would be
reflected in an adjustment on the next monthly consolidated statement. Before final
payment of any completed contract, full supporting documentation would be submitted
to the PCU for approval, which would be retained and made available for review
during project supervision missions and audits. Contract payments for centrally
managed works (bid by ICB and supervised by consultants) would be handled directly
by the PCU on behalf of DNV in the traditional manner. These arrangements were
confirmed at neaotiations.
3.23        Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against:
(a)   47% of total expenditures for civil works except routine maintenance
contracts;
(b)   the following schedule for total expenditures for routine maintenance
contracts:
- 60% until US$45 million has been disbursed; then
- 40% until a cumulative US$63 million has been disbursed; and
- 20% until a cumulative US$73 million has been disbursed.
- 0% thereafter.
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods; 85% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured goods and of local expenditures for
imported goods, locally procured; and
(d)   100% of total expenditures, excluding taxes, for professional services
and training.
The expected completion date of the Project is December 31, 1999 and the
closing date for project expenditures will be June 30, 2000.
3.24          Funds from the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a period
of six years, slightly less than the standard profile for transport projects in the
region (seven years). DNV's portion of the Fifth Highway Sector Project in Argen-
tina (Loan 2296-AR) was fully disbursed within six months after the original Closing
Date. Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount of up to US$10 million with
respect to payments made for expenditures incurred on or after August 31, 1992
approximately one year before loan signature, would be made for urgently needed
works and services to facilitate project start-up. These would include inter alia
flood emergency works, engineering services, technical assistance services, and
contracted PCU staffing.  Durina aDyraisal, all disbursement-related matters and
retroactive financing were discussed and agreed in principle with the Government.
which was later confirmed at negotiations. An estimated schedule of disbursements
is given in Table 3.1.
E. Accounts and Auditina
3.25        The general accounting system of DNV is adequate to support its
operations.   In 1992, its budgeting system was improved in the framework of the
Public Sector Reform Program, by implementing a Management by Program   (MBP)
budgeting system that permits a closer oversight by MEOSP. Training in this area
is provided in the proposed project (Annex 8, activity 4.a). With respect to the
project, and to maintain an adequate flow of funds to finance eligible project
expenditures with a minimum administrative delay, the Government would establish a
Special Account in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, with appropriate protection agains set-off, seizure and attachment. The Bank
would, at the Government's request, deposit an aggregate amount equivalent to a
maximum of US$25 million from the loan account into the Special Account. Records of
Special Account proceeds and outlays would be available for review by Bank
supervision missions and subject to annual audit. Disbursements would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures for civil works whose contractual value is
less than the equivalent of US$1,000,000, for goods and for consulting services
whose value is less than US$100,000. The corresponding supporting documentation
would be verified on a routine basis during the supervision process.



28
3.26        The Bank would require that an independent auditor: (a) audit all loan
accounts and expenditure categories for exactness and for efficiency; (b)
consistently apply procedures and methods satisfactory to the Bank that conform to
generally accepted auditing standards; (c) carry out its auditing work in a timely
manner (annual reports would be presented no later than six months after the end of
each calendar year); and (d) render an impartial judgment in its auditing role. The
new National General Audit (AGN) office (Law No. 24,156 of September 30, 1992) is
still awaiting evaluation of its capability by the Bank. The Bank has recommended
that the current International Project Audit Group at the former Court of Accounts
(TCN) be transferred in full to the AGN. It is expected that this recommendation be
accepted before the loan is presented to the Bank's Board. During negotiations, the
Bank indicated that it would consider the AGN as independent auditors as long as it:
(a) consistently applies procedures and methods that conform to internationally
accepted auditing principles and standards; (b) carries out its auditing work in a
timely manner; and (c) maintains in its auditing operation the independent character
required. At appraisal. terms. conditions and auditing Procedures for the project,
including the Special Account, were discussed and they were confirmed at
negotiations.
F. Environmental Impact
3.27        The nature of the proposed civil works projects--mostly rehabilitation
and maintenance of roads on existing alignments, and in already developed corridors-
- is such that environmental impact is not a major issue. Where already existing
problems (such as slope erosion) are identified, they would be corrected or
mitigated  as part of the rehabilitation/maintenance works.   DNV's technical
specifications were reviewed during appraisal to provide adequate protection from
dust and air pollution during construction activities.
3.28        As a part of the Technical Assistance Program, a Manual (Annex 6) is
under preparation to provide guidance to highway engineers on incorporating
environmental considerations in the planning of roads and execution of road works.
DNV would also take the lead through the CVF in organizing seminars and training for
DPV engineers when applying the Manual Guidelines in regard to specific conditions
in the respective provinces. An Environmental Unit has been established in DNV with
oversight and/or clearance functions (para. 1.21).
G. Monitoring of the Project
3.29        For project monitoring, DNV would prepare quarterly reports for the Bank
and provide information on road expenditures, especially pertaining to maintenance
and investment budgets, including a breakdown by expenditure category. Road lengths
maintained and assessed maintenance levels should be documented along with
compliance with agreed project implementation targets (para. 3.31), status of
evaluation of alternatives for maintenance subprojects, and general evaluation of
road  network  condition.    The  disbursement  schedule  would  be  reviewed  and
recommendations for eventual program modifications would also be made in quarterly
reports. The quarterly reports would also include updated versions of pertinent
major tables included in the appraisal report. At appraisal, scope of reporting
reguirements were discussed and agreed, and it was later confirmed at negotiations.
3.30        To monitor progress toward meeting project objectives, at negotiations
agreements were reached that the Government will at a minimum meet with
representatives of the Bank biannually to review and discuss the following:
(a)   During the first semester of each year, review the results of the
previous year's program including:



29
-     summary of  financial  implementation of the road maintenance  and
rehabilitation programs, with special consideration on availability of
counterpart fundo;
-     status of road work completions in the program;
-     state of completion of the maintenance program and compliance with
Project Performance Targets;
-     state of progress on road reconversion, and specifically compliance
with the plans of action of the two pilot provinces, which would serve
as a monitoring criteria for evaluating performance of these provinces;
-     summary of the status of the road concession program;
-     implementation of the training component;
-     use of consulting services;
-     economic evaluation of subprojects;
-     audit  reports  and  consolidation  of  disbursements  against  actual
expenditures;
-     comparison of projected and actual loan disbursements; and
-     lessons learned during implementation.
(b)   During the second semester of each year, review execution of the
program for the current year and the program for the next year on the
basis of lessons learned, including:
-     road expenditures and execution of works during the current year;
-     compliance with physical targets;
-     updated medium-term program and objectives;
-     proposed rehabilitation and maintenance budget;
-     budgets for consulting services and training;
-     road condition inventories and review of the maintenance program; and
-     review of the proposed disbursement schedule.
3.31        To assess and quantify progress in project implementation,  during
appraisal agreement was reached to establish the following set of Project
Performance Targets, against which to measure compliance with project objectives:
(a) a country-wide average of the IE=7 for the whole paved national road network
(excluding the concessioned network) to be achieved at the end of 1997, to indicate
improvement  in pavement  conditions.   At negotiations,  DNV produced adequate
documentation, based on field measurements, that the current IE for the non-
concessioned national networks in 5.54; (b) by comparing the IE=7 with the current
IE value the annual growth rate for IE during 1993-97 should be 6.0% p.a., which
percentage will also be taken as an annual target for the increase in IE in the
network the maintenance of which will be delegated to the DPVs, (especially to the
pilot provinces referred to in para 1.15 (c)), as well as in the concessioned
network; and (c) annual project-related targets in terms of amount of disbursements,
number of km by type of work, number of bid calls, contracts under execution,
completed contracts, and expenditures for the Technical Assistance and Training
Programs. At negotiations. DNV presented a complete implementation program for the
prolect. which is taken as the basis to determine the Performance Targets of (c).



30
3. 32       The project would require more frequent supervision missions, in the
order of one every four months, during the first two years of implementation, with
the constant participation of a transport economist and a highway engineer, and
ocassional involvement of an institutional expert, a systems analyst, an
environmental specialist and a financial analyst.  During the expected remaining
four years of project implementation, supervision missions would be carried out
every six months with similar skill requirements.  Under these assumptions, the
total staff-weeks would be about 75 broken down as follows:
Expected Skill           FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97       FY98      FY99
Reauirements
Transport Economist        6         5         3         3         2         2
Highway Engineer           6         5         4         4         3         3
Institutional Exp.         3         2         1         1         1         -
Systems Analyst            4         3         -         -         -         -
Environm. Spec.            4         2         1         -         1          -
Financial Analyst          2         2         1         1         =          -
TOTAL:             25        19        10        9         7          5
3.33        Given the special nature of the project it will require a Midterm review
to assess progress in project implementation, achievement of Project objectives, and
compliance with dated covenants and agreed plan of actions. At neaotiations. it was
agreed that this ioint review by the Government and the Bank should be done before
December 31. 1995, and be based on terms of reference prepared by the Government
before October 31. 1995. These terms of reference should be satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.34        At negotiations,  it was agreed that within six months of project
completion, the Government would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to assess
the success of the project, including the achivement of institutional, physical,
administrative, operational  and  financial  objectives  and goals,  and general
evaluation of the lessons learned from project experience.



31
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01        As agreed at appraisal,  the following actions were taken by the
Government before negotiations in a manner satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)   supervisory arrangements and organization for supervision of road
concessions in advanced status of implementation (para 1.18);
(b)   definition of the DNV structure and complete staffing down to the
divisional level (para. 1.20);
(c)   hiring an individual consultant to evaluate and recommend the future
DNV staffing needs and to prepare a TOR for a consulting firm to define
DNV personnel policy (para. 1.20);
(d)   appointment of DNV counterparts for the Technical Assistance Program
(para. 1.20);
(e)   preparation of a draft Environmental Assessment Manual and terms of
reference of the staff of the Environmental Unit (para. 1.21);
(f)   completion of detailed engineering and economic evaluation of the
components of the first-year program (paras. 2.23 and 3.02);
(g)   elaboration of standard routine maintenance contracts and bid documents
(para. 3.02);
(h)   elaboration  of  standard  ICB/LCB  bidding  documents  for works  and
standard model letters of invitation and contracts for consultants
(para. 3.16);
(i)   determination of current IE=5.54 of non-concessioned national paved
road network (para. 3.31); and
(j)   finalization of a complete implementation program of the project (para.
3.31).
4.02        At necotiations,  the Government agreed to undertake the following
actions during the implementation of the proposed project:
(k)   carry out a plan of action, reflecting a Government policy letter, for
implementing the reform program in the highway sector (para. 1.14 and
Annex 1);
(1)   adequate funds, (estimated to be as a minimum on the order of US$40
million per year), would be allocated for routine maintenance for the
non-concessioned network in coming budgets (para. 1.16);
(m)   assurances that the Government will provide on time the required local
counterpart funds for project execution (para. 1.17);
(n)   the consulting firm referred to in (c) above would be hired by December
31, 1993 and its recommendations would start to be implemented by
December 31, 1994 (para. 1.20);
(0)   discuss  and review periodically with the Bank DNV's annual  road
investment program before it is authorized, and inform the Bank of any
changes introduced later in those plans, if any (para. 1.23);
(p)   project cost,  including flood emergency work costs (para. 2.14 and
2.15),   disbursement   percentages,   modalities   of   disbursement
applications, and retroactive financing (para. 3.22, 3.23 and 3.24);



32
(q)   the HDM model will be used to verify the economic feasibility of each
road section to be financed by the project, and any periodic
maintenance sub-project not yielding an ERR of 12% or more would not be
eligible for financing under the project (para. 2.23);
(r)   functions, responsibilities, and staffing of the PCU satisfactory to
the Bank (paras. 1.15 and 3.05);
(s)   goods and works would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
for ICB and LCB procedures, and consulting services according to Bank
guidelines (para. 3.21);
(t)   terms, conditions and auditing procedures for the project, including
the Special Account (para. 3.26);
(u)   determine scope of reporting requirements (para. 3.29);
(v)   develop and apply a set of Project Performance Targets Indicators and
commensurate Actions (para. 3.31);
(x)   an action Plan (TATP) including target dates for implementation of
various key activities (paras. 3.03, 3.14 and Annex 8); and
(y)   conduct a Midterm review with the Bank before December 31, 1995 (para.
3.33).
4.03        The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness: (i) completion
of an Environmental Assessment Manual satisfactory to the Bank (para. 1.21); and
(ii) signing of a Subsidiary Agreement with DNV satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.08).
4.04        Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$340 million. The terms would be 15 years with a grace period of 5 years.



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Modal Composttion of Domestic TraffIc
Intenrrban
Passenger Traffic
(bllion pass-km)    1976   %     1980      %     1986      %     1988     %    1987      %    1988    %       1989     %      1990     S    1991       %
Air                 2.4    4      3.7      6      3.7      6      4.1     6      4.3      8      4.0     7      3.6     6      3.2      6     4.0      7
Road              46.3   83    53.6    87        54.7    86    45.6   88    46.3    83    48.4   86            48.8    86     43.3    85    47.8      87
Rail                6.9   13      4.2      7      5.0      8      5.4     6      5.3      9      4.1     7      4.9     9      4.6      9     3.2      6
Total         54.6  100    81.5    100       63.4   100      55 .    100    65.9   100    66.5  100       57.3   100      51.1   100    65.0    100
Fnright Traffic
(billion ton-km-
Water              18.5   21    20.6    20        17.4    18    19.3            19.6            20.0      18   20.1   le      19.0    19    20.6        -
Road              49.9   56    60.3    58        56.3    68      63.6           64.6            67.6    62     68.1    60     60.4    60   86.7
Pipelines           9.3   11    13.6    13       13.8    14       n.e.           n.e            13.6   12      188 115        14.5    14      n.l1
Rail               10.7   12      9.6      9      9.5    10       8.7            8.0             9.0|   8a      8.3     7      7.6      7     6.0
Total        88.4  100    104.0   100       97.0   100                                   110.0  100    113.1 | 100    101.5   100
Note: n.e. = not available
Source: DNV
tI-



34
TABLE 1. 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
National and Provincial Hiahwav Network A/
(km)
National Network
Gravel or
Year           Paved b/   Stabilized Base           Earth         Total
1975           24,694           7,773              15,152        47,619
1980           25,005           5,071               7,739        37,815
1985           28,163           6,722               2,392        37,277
1990           28,451           6,242               3,238        37,931
1991           28,625           6,150               3,053        37,828
Provincial Network
1975           15,982          58,697              84,734      159,413
1980           27,398          30,843             118,282      176,523
1985          29,684           31,993             112,386      174,063
1990           30,700            n.a                  n.a      174,800
1991          33,191           30,771             114,779      178,741
.a    Varying classifications in different years make historical comparisons
difficult.
b/    In 1991, the composition of the 28,625 km. of paved roads is as
follows: 19,125 km. (67%) of asphaltic concrete, 8,500 km. (30%)
of bituminous surface treatment and 1,000 km. (3%) of portland
cement concrete.
Source: DNV and CVF



35
TABLE 1. 3
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Traffic Data on National Roads
(a) Averaae Volume at Permanent Stations
Average
Year                 AADT                Rana-
1980                2,056               45/7,428
1981                2,054               50/7,664
1982                1,930               50/6,514
1983                1,960               63/7,262
1984                1,946              43/7,170
1985                1,808               51/6,707
1986                1,916              49/7,052
1987                1,971              47/7,260
1988                1,917               61/6,732
1989                1,868               58/6,710
1990                1,900               66/6,790
1991                1,910               69/6,850
(b) Vehicle  Share (Jat Permanent Stations
Care and                                            Trucks
Year ~     si JepP.Ickf-URpps         BueA         w/o Traile      w/rir
1983          36.1          23.9          4.0           15.4            20.6
1984          36.8          23.4          4.7            15.8           19.2
1985          35.8          21.7          4.9           15.3            22.3
1986          35.3          21.4          5.2           15.1            23.1
1987          34.9          22.0          5.3           14.2            23.6
1988          35.8          20.9          5.2            13.3           24.8
1989          35.0          21.0          5.2           13.0            25.8
1990          34.3          22.0          5.5           13.0            25.2
1991          34.0          21.6          5.7           12.9            25.8
(c) 1991 AADT by Kind of Road
Road              Length (km}                Average AADT
Freeway                       573                      19,100
Two-lane                    37,038                       1,100
Multi-lane                        75                       5,500
Source: DNV



36
TABLE 1.4
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
National Roads Condition
A. Condition of the Paved National Road Network (in %).
YEAR                        GOOD                 FAIR
1980                         n.a                  n.a                  n.a
1982                          31                   25                    44
1984                          35                   22                    43
1986                          42                   23                    35
1988                          46                   20                    34
1990                          46                   25                    29
1991                          46                   25                    29
1992                          44                   21                   35
B. Condition in 1990 of the Paved National Network in Major Provinces.
PROVINCE         ROAD LENGTH (KM)        PAVED            CONDITION 1%)
Good     Fair      Bad
Buenos Aires              5,084.68         100          31        38     31
C6rdoba                   2,466.19          95          60        13     27
Santa F6                  2,483.23          91          42        35     23
La Pampa                  1,576.17          80          34        24     42
Others                   26,582.02          68          49        2      29
TOTAL              38,192.29           76          46       25      29
NOTE: n.a.: Not available.
Source: DNV



Table 1. 5
Page 1 of 3
37
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Sections Let Out for Concessions in Early 1991
toNE -        C        R                          .                             L       _  4T
3   Empalme Ruta Provincial No.4 (km. 18.90)-       Length: 660.45
Empalme Ruta Nacional No. 252 (km. 677.42)      km.
1                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AADT
IV                                                                    21,000/1,330
252  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.3 Grumbein (km.        Length: 6.80
0.00)- Puerto Ing. White (km. 6.80)             km.
AADT
____________________________________________ _ .  2,900/1,770
2      205  Acceso Aeropuerto Ezeiza (km. 25.41) - Empalme Length: 297.60
Ruta Provincial No. 65 (km. 322.01)             km.
AADT
6,360/850
VI      15       2   Empalme Ruta Provincial No.36 (km. 40.21)-       Transferred to
Empalme Ruta Nacional No.226 (km. 403.70)       Buenos Aires
Province
VIII     19      22  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.3 (km. 719.20)-          It was not
Empalme Ruta Nacional No.237.00) (I) (km.       concessioned
1269.64)
X       16     226  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.2 (km. 0.00) Mar del   Length: 404.38
Plata - Empalme Ruta Provincial No. 65 (km.     km.
404.32) Bolivar                                 AADT
3,770/1,110
. ............ :
3       7   Laboulaye (km. 489.99)- Acceso San Martin (I)  Length: 507.14
(km. 997.40)                                    km.
AADT
6,920/1,737
8   Pilar (km. 57.10)- Villa Mercedes (km.           Length: 664.61
4           722.95)- San Luis                                km.
AADT
-____   _________________________________________________   6,730/1, 030
Z-:-                   193  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.9 (km. 3.67)- Empalme  Length: 30.66
Ruta Nacional No.8 (km. 34.33k                  km.
AADT
1,047/750
5       7   Puente sobre Rio Lujan (km. 69.09) - Laboulaye Length: 420.77
(km. 489.99)                                    km.
III                                                                   AADT
9,410/1,210
6      188  San Nicolas (km. 0.00) - Realic6 (km. 479.25)   Length: 479.58
km.
AADT
4,000/800
IX      17       5   Lujan (km. 66.76) - Empalme Ruta Nacional        Length: 538.23
No.35 (km. 606.42) Santa Rosa - La Pampa        km.
AADT
5,142/820
Totai. Length
tona 24
2,641 1cm.
TOXAL EGKZ<6UESS 12t 4,010 )aa.



38                                        Tablo 1,5
Page 2 of 3
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCZ AND RFHABILITATION SLCTOR PROJZCT
Sections L.t Out for Concessions in Earlv 1991
_    _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _                                  w   w  m   
10       9    Rut- Nacional A-012 (km. 327.06)-          Length: 332.51 km.
Entrada a Pilar (km. 659.45) C6rdoba      AADT
S,199/3,320
VII       11       34    Empalme 2da. Avda. Circunvalaci6n de       Length: 713.72 km.
Rosario (km. 13.95)- La Banda (km.        AADT
728.12) Santiago del Eztero               3,960/1,100
9    Empalme Rut& Nacional No.64 (km.           Length: 293.17 km.
12             1,139.68) Santiago del Estero -           AADT
Rosario de la Frontera (km. 1,423.08)    2,500/1,580
Salta
34    Rosario de la Frontera (km. 998.51)       Length: 198.99 km.
Salta - Acceso a San Pedro de Jujuy       AADT
(km. 1,196.51)                            2,500/1,410
38    Villa Carlos Paz (Salida) (km. 12.32)-   Length: 109.73 km.
Cruz del Eje (km. 122.05)                 AADT
4,250/2, 170
20
XI                36    Empalme Ruta Nacional No.8 Rio Cuarto    Length: 187.81 km.
(km. 595.73)- Acceso camino a Alta        AADT
Gracia (km. 783.50)                       2,590/1,200
A-005  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.8 (km. 0.00)-   Length: 11.42 km.
Lmpalme Ruts Nacional No.36 (km.          AADT
11.42)                                    4,690/4,160
14       19    Empalme Ruts Nacional No.11 Santo Tom&   Length: 280.77 km.
(km. 0.00)- Rio Primero                   AADT
(km. 280.20)                              4,070/2,270
t ' :F .... ....
_________________=_______________   2.128 ~
?O'A LSGv R.NI .-,I  ,,,.,,** * 0-,83 6.' 4$1 3 8 )ca k 



39                                      Table 1 5
Page 3 of 3
ARGENTIN
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Sections Let Out for Concessions in Early 1991
zosz ~   ~     ~      __________________________ ,.,,,o,"  "  .......  $m    "
9   Salida Puerto de Campana (km. 72.90)- Zmpalm.   Length: 204.66
Ruta Nacional A-012                             km
(km. 278.29)                                    AADT
7                                                            16,400/6,732
A-012 Alto Nivel s/Ruta Nacional No.9 (km. 0.01)-      Length: 41.98
Ruta Nacional No.9 Rocario a Roldin (I) (km.   km.
41.82)                                          AADT
3,610/2,050
11  Impalma  Segunda Circunvalaci6n de Rosario (km. Length: 683.91
8           326.34)- Zmpalm  Ruta Nacional No.16 (km.        km.
1007.79)                                        AADT
4                           ___________________________________________    16,200/1,205
A-009 Puerto Reconquista (km. 0.00)- Empalme Ruta      Length: 12.03
Nacional No.11 (km. 12.03)                      km.
AADT    480
9      33   Empalme Ruta Nacional No.7 (km. 534.62)-         Length: 232.23
Empalme Ruta Nacional A-012 (km. 832.69)        km.
AADT
5,370/1,541
12  Nmpalm. Ruta Nacional No.193 (km.84.40)- A.N.  Length: 76.19
Ruta Nacional No.14 a Gual*guaychO (km.         km
160.59)                                         AADT
5,806/1,200
193  ampalm. Ruta Nacional No.12 (km. 0.00)-          Length: 3.67
Empalme Ruta Nacional No.9 (km. 3.67)           km.
V       18                                                            AADT  :3,420
14  Bajo Nivel Ruta Nacional No.12 (km. 0.00)        Length: 496.35
C-ibas - Empalme Ruta Nacional No.117 (km.      km.
496.35)                                         AADT
3,930/1,180
135  Empalme Rut& Nacional No.14 (Km 0.00)- Pu-nta   Length: 14.48
Internacional General Artigas (km. 14.48)       km.
AADT
1,600/940
A-015 Empalm. Ruta Nacional No.14 (km. 0.00) -         Length: 15.00
Acc-zo a la Represa Salto Grande (km. 15.00)    km.
AADT
:1,310/470
117  Empalme Ruta Nacional No.14 (km. 0.00)-          Length: 12.48
Comienzo Puente Internacional Paso de los       km.
Libres (km. 12.48)                              AADT
2,800/1,645
12  Zmpalm- Ruta Nacional No. 123 (Km 871.35)-       Length: 769.51
Accozo Puente Internacional Tancredo Neves      km.
XII      13           (km. 1,640.86) - Nisiones                        AADT
:8,840/580
16  Accezo Viaducto lado Corrientes, inclu!do el   Length: 177.21
Pu-nte General Belgrano                         km.
(km. 0.00)- Nmpalm  R.N. No.95 (km. 176.27)     AADT
I_     jProvincia del Chaco                             8,560/1,170
W17  t8  t 1".



40
TABLE 1. 6
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Some Recent Accords Signed between DNV and DPVs
Date           DPVs                             Subject
8-12-92  Mendoza             DNV transfers administration and maintenance
of RN 7, Section San Martin (km (997.40) - El
Condor (km 1,041.91) and RN 40, Section El
Condor (km 0.0) - Pareditas (km 118.6)
8-12-92  Mendoza             DNV awards and administers a concession on RN
7 and RP 82, Section Mendoza - Limit with
Chil-.
| 7-15-92  Misiones          DNV transfera administration and maintenance
of RN 105, Section Between RN 12 and RN 14
(length 34.8 km).
7-15-92  Kisiones            DNV transfers administration and maintenance
of RN 14, Section Doe Hermanas - RN 17 (length
10.79 Km)
6-25-92   San Juan           DPV will execute the control of vehicle axle
loads and dimensions, with DNV equipment
9-15-92  Tierra del          DPV and DNV will jointly operate the scale
Fuego              located at RN 3, Km29.
6- 4-92   Santa Cruz         DPV will execute the control of vehicle axle
loads and dimensions in national roads.
n/a    Misiones            DPV will execute the control of vehicle axle
loads and dimensions in national roads.
10-10-91  Neuquen             DNV transfers administration and maintenance
of RN 234, Section San Martin de los Andes -
Lago hermoso.
6-22-90  Corrientas          DNV transfers administration and maintenance
of RN 12, Section Rio Corrientes - Batel.
4-22-91   La Rioja           DNV transfers administration and maintenance
of RN 40, Section Pituil - Schaqui.



ARGENTINA
ROAD HAINTENANCE AND REAIBILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Pilot Province: Santa Crur
Action Plan for Highway Reform
ACTIVITY                    OBJECTIVE                      1993                          1994                         1995
Delegate routine               Delegate executive         DNV-DPV accord for           DNV-DPV accord for routine      DNV-DPV accord for
maintenance                    action on the National   routin  maintenance            mintenance  US$2.900.000        routine maintenance
Road Network 1001 for    US$1.800.OOO (401 of rood   (601 of road network)             US$4.900.000 (1005 of
1995.                     network)                     January 1994                    road network)
January 1993                                                January 1995
Evaluate DPV performnce        Evaluate delegation        Survey road condition.       Cont.                           Cont.
Evaluate DPW' force
account capacity to
lcroase delegation.
I                          _      ________________________  September  1993
Equipmnt                       To have satiefactory       Satisfy capacity             ---                             ---
purchasing/renting or          capacity for               requirmente to increase
maintenance contracting.       delegatlon.                delegation.
September 1993              _                               _
Delegation of detalled         Delegate technical         DEV-DPV accord.              ----                            - -
engineering                    tasks.                     Final deesign R3 limits
w/Chubut-Caleta Olivia.
July 1993                                                          _
Delegation of field            Delegate technical         ----                         Field inspection R3 limits      Cont.
inepection                     taake.                                                  w/Chubut Caleta Olivia by
DPV.
January 1994
Delegation of vehicle load    Delegate institutional   DNV-DPV accord for              Cont.                           Cont.
control on National Network   tasks                       vehicle load control in
National Network.
J_ anuary 1993 
Delegation of road             Delegate Inastitutional   DKV-DPV accord for road       Cont.                           Cont.
inventory updating             teask                      inventory.
delegation.                                               January 1993
Performnce evaluation.         Evaluate DPV capacity    ----                           Evaluate delegation of          Evaluate delegation of
institutional tasks and        institutional tasks and
detailed engineering            field inspection.
January  1994                  January 1994



ARGENTINK
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Pilot Provincet La Pampa
Action Plan for Highway Reform
ACTIVITY                     OBJECTIVE                       1993                            1994                            1995
Delegate routine                 Delegate action on the    DNV-DPY accord for 416.66   DNV-DIV accord for 600 km            DNV-DPV accord for 780 km
maintenaDce on National          National Road Network.    km routine maintenance          routine mintenance,              routine maintenance.
Road Network                     1002 for 6 yeare           January 1993                   January 1994                     January 1995
Selection of sections to be    Increase delegation          Select additional 18O km    Select additional 180 km to    Select 180 km to include
added to the accord.                                        to include in DNV-DVP          include in DNV-DPV accord.       in DNV-DPV accord 1986.
accord.                       September 1994                   September 1995
September 1993
Evaluate DPV perfonmance         Evaluate delegation        Survey road condition to    Cont.                               Cont.
justify increased             September 1994                   September 1995
delegation.
September 1993
Delegation of Detailed           Delegate technical          ...                           DNV-DPV accord for R151- El    ---
Engineering                      tasks.                                                    Col6n - R143
Delegation of field              Delegate technical          ----                          Field inspection by DPV          Field inspection by DPV
inspection                       tasks.                                                    R35 - Ataliva Roca Santa         R151 - El Col6n - R143.
Rosa
Delegation of vehicle load      Delegate institutional   DNV-DIV Accord for                Cont.                            Cont.
control on National              task*                      vehicle load control.
Network.                                                    January 1993
Delegation of road              Delegate institutional    ----                             DNV-DI"  accord for road         Coant.
inventory updating              tasks                                                      inventory updating
January 1994
Highvay info. netvork
system to be installed in
DPW
January 1994, DNV
Traffic counting                 Delegate institutional    ---                             DIV-DIV accord for traffic       Cont.
tasks.                                                    counting
January 1994                                        _     -



43
TABL 1. 9
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DNV's Staff and Averaoe Salaries
(in US Dollars)
Position                  As of 7/31/92      As of 8/31/92       Increase (%)
Salary  Number  Salary   Number   Salary   Number
-Managers                 1,095         3   2,068       7         89      +133
-Sub-managers and         1,091       17   1,816       16         66      -  6
chief of Regions
-Chiefs Headquarters,       926       56   1,570       55         70      -  2
Districts and
Reqional Divisions
-Chiefs Headquarters        760      142   1,282    133           69      -  6
Sections and District
Divisions
-Work and Workshop          556      535      900      550        62      +  3
Supervisors
-Foremen and                446      612      682      606        53      -  1
Laboratory Chiefs 
-Operators of Heavy         415      923       633     913        53      -  1
Equipment
-Workmen                    365    1,759       519   1,749        42      -  1
Source: DNV



44
TABLE 1.10
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Actual and Proiected Budgets for DNV During 1991-1997
(in thousand of US Dollar.)
ITEM                 1991       1992        1993        1994       1995       1996     1997
Actual     Actual  Committed    Estimated   Estimated   Estimated  Estimated
Personnel                  54,836      65,000     54,950      53,851     52,774     50,663    48,636
Goods                      10,172      16,657     10,242      10,549     10,549     10,444    10,235
Services                   20,384       9,144     13,661      15,027     16,530     17,522    17,872
Capital Expenditures       86,890     123,313    281,000     422,053    508,343    422,577   420,000
1. Previous works          6,395      7,000        500
2. Works                  80,495     116,313    279,500     422,053    508,343    422,577   420,000
Transfers                  36,861      87,925     84,000      85,200     86,460     87,783    89,172
1. To Central Government     73         136
2. To Private Sector      29,512      42,000     60,000      60,000     60,000     60,000    60,000
3. To Provinces            7,000      45,513     24,000      25,200     26,460     27,783    29,172
4. To Overseas              276         276
Assets                     23,122      11,078
Debt Service                    6      84,103     75,929      59,345     57,674     49,428    47,600
Foreign Debt Service            6      84,103     75,929      59,345     57,674     49,428    47,600
TOTAL                     232,271     397,220    519,782     646,025    732,330    638,416    633,516
Proposed Project:                                  106.1       263.5      239.4      101.0    46.0
1% of total budget)                                120%)       (41%)      (33%)      (16%)    (7%)
Source of Funds:
Taxes                      29,024
Non-taxes                   1,457       5,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000
Own Capital                     8       3,000          0          0           0          0       0
Transfers of Treasury     138,910     376,220    482,000     492,764    579,145    543,222    560,593
External Financing          2,903      13,000     35,782     151,261    151,185     93,194    70,923
IBRD                                            35,782     136,141    100,369     27,448       0
IDB                                                         10,120     50,816     65,746    70,923
Others                    2,903                              5,000
TOTAL RESOURCES           172,302     397,220    519,782     646,025    732,330    638,416    633,516
Source: DNV



45
TABLE 2.1
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates by Year
(in million of USS Dollars at October 1992 prices)
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997    TOTAL
Paved Roads:
Reconstruction:                    3.4      18.7     18.7       1.7       _      42.5
Periodic Maintenance
Concrete Pavement Repair         -         1.6      1.6       -         -       3.2
Asphalt Overlays                 5.8      34.9     38.8       3.0       -      82.5
Bituminous Surface Treat.       10.0      25.5      9.0       0.6      -       45.1
Slurry Seals                    19.0     34.0      27.4       -        -       80.4
Sealing                         14.0     24.5      25.5       4.0      -       68.0
Pavement Striping                2.1       3.2      8.1       0.4      0.2    14.0
Routine Maintenance               12.0      26.0     29.8      32.7      19.5   120.0
Unpaved Roads:
Periodic Maintenance               2.1       3.3       2.5      2.1       -       10.0
Regravelling
Routine Maintenance                2.4      11.0      11.0     11.0       4.6    40.0
Flood Emergency Works                 9.1      10.9       -         -        -       20.0
Consulting Services:
Detailed Engineering             3.4       1.5    _          _          -       4.9
Supervision                      0.4       5.2      4.4       0.8      0.4    11.2
Technical Assistance,                                                  _
Studies & Training             3.3      6.0       2.7       1.6      -       13.6
Eguijment
Office & Communication           0.2       0.4     _         _         -        0.6
Vehicle Weight Control          _         _         0.3      _          -       0.3
Traffic Counting                -         -         0.2       0.2       -       0.4
Road Condition Rating            0.1       1.5      0.7      -          -       2.3
Base Cost                            87.3    208.2    180.7        58.1    24.7   559.0
Physical Contingencies                0.0       2.0       5.0      17.0     10.0    34.0
Price Contingencies                   2.9      13.7      18.5      10.6      4.3    50.0
Taxes                                15.9      39.6      35.2      15.3      7.0   113.0
TOTAL COST                       106. 1    263.5     239.4    101.0      46.0   756.0



46                              Table 2.2
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTIA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training Proaram
(in thousands of US Dollars)
Item        |  Consultant   |QtAL
1.  Assistance to DNV's General Administrator's Office
l.a     Reformulation of             1,458                0        1,458
the National Road
Network
l.b     Monitoring of Toll             567    _                      567
Road Concessions
l.c     Evalution of Toll               58               30           88
Road Concessions
1.d     Project Monitoring           1,827               30        1,857
1.e     Other Transport              1,200                -        1,200
Sector Studies
2.  Assistance to the Directorate of Planning, Research and Control
2.a     Methodology for                122               10          132
Environmental
Impact
2.b     Updating of Road               186                _          186
User Charge
'Studies
2.c     Highway                      1,041              490        1,531
Information System
2.d     Highway Condition              209            2,255        2,464
Survey
2.e     Highway Planning               238                           238
System
2.f     Traffic                        265              400          665
Information System                    _
2.g     Monitoring and
Updating                      150                _          150
Maintenance and
Rehabilitation
Planning
2.h     Vehicle Weight                 387              300          687
Control and Road
Safety
3.  Assistance to the Directorate of Highway Works and Services _
3.a     Preparation of                  60                            60
Biddina Documents
3.b     Equipment Policies             160                _          160
3.c     Bridge Management              434               25          459
System
3.d     Methods and
Criteria for                  212               30          242
Selecting Pavement
Alternatives



47                               Table 2.2
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance and Trainina Proaram
(in thousands of US Dollars)
I |tonsultant            iment          OTAL
4. Assistance to the Directorate of Administration
4.a     Budgetary                      400                 -          400
Administration
System
4.b     Staff motivation               220                 -          220
_and organization                                        _ -
4.c     Management                     200                 -          200
_Training
5. Assistance to the Directorate of Highway Reconversion
5.a     Technical                    1,372                 -        1,372
Assistance to DPVs
5.b     Worldwide
Experience on                  214                -          214
Decentralization
of Road
_________ Administrations    I
5.c     Training                       800                 _          800
6.  Assistance to the Argentinean-Uruguayan Bi-National Comission
6.a     Complete
Background Studies           1,800                -        1,800
of Rio de la Plata
Crossing
TOTAL                13,580            3,570       17,150



48
TABLE 2.3
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTIN
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Indices of the Prorazm Analyzed by ISIT Usint HDM Model
Pzoject Item           1'   Length      Expenditures          ERR (1)       Percontage      Percentage of   Average
(km)       (million USS)         or B/C       of length        expenditures       M  or
A. Paved Roads
1. Sealing                  4,572            86.5          12<ERR<24             28                30
24<ERRc36             34                34
I _____________________                                    36<ERR<48              15                15             32
ERR>48                21                20
No solution            2                2
2. Slurry                     859             36.5         12cKRR<24              83               84
r _____________________  _____________   _______________    24< =RR<36            13                12
36<9RR'48              .                -              21
_____ _____ ____ ____   _____ ____   ____ _____ _ _ ERI>4 8         4                4          _ _ _  _ _
3. Surface Troatent          1,667            84.6         12<ERRs24              46               46
24<ERR<36             25                25
36<ERRU48              16               15             29
ERR>48                 13               14
4.  Overlay                  1,462           112.6         12<ERR<24              35               35
_  24<MRIs36            17                17
_ _ __ __ _  36KERR'48         10                9              27
______________________    _____________  _______________    XE RR>48               13               14
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __   __ __ _ __ _  _ __ __ _ __ _ No   solutions  25  25
S.  Reconstruction            342     |       61.2         12<ERR<24              33               34
f |               1 24<ERR<36      }       12               12
I _____________________   I____________  T______________    36<ERR<48              10               10              35
ERR>48_4 K5                             44*4



49
TABLE 2.3
Page 2 of 2
Project Item              Length    | Expenditures         EBR (2)      Percentage      Percentage of   Average
(kn)       (million US$)       or B/C       of length      expenditures    ERR or
B. Unpaved Road.
6.  Gravel                 6,430           69.5       |< 1B/C<2              SI               61
2<B/C<6             16               35           2.5
_      |              l                  ~~~~~~                ~        ~      ~~~~6<B/C  3  4
7. Earthj    1,550                  J      11.2          1<B/C<2      J      73       J       53
I  ____ __  I  _ ______ 2<B/C<6       27              47            2.7
C.  Cment Concrete Road
8.  Concrete                 65             4.9         12<ERR<24            --               --
24<ERR<36            --               --
a___________________ _  l36< M <48                     52              30             46
D11B                 48               70
Note:  ER  - *econmic rate of return (Z)
1/C - benefit - cost ratio
Source ISIT, DIV and Miesion'e eetiate (March 1992).



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABIUTATION SECTOR PROJECT
Organrzation of DNV
Mistsy of Economy and Pubic Wodis nd 8_rvc
Secwstadt of Public Works and ConununlUotns
Naional Highwa Dbucatoste
Gaaa AdmG Ist or
Genw5   Sub-Adnllstor
SENIORAmnsrto
How                               and cnriF                           N   wi"
StKIHliT    |  W tms             ]  |          f*soRla         |   t   }         gXl l W04          1 1              1 bm 5
UANAMMENTT 10WS
b&dwz/52819



51
CHART B
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Orcanization of the Project Coordination Unit
D.N.v.
ADMINISTRATION
SHORT-TERM
CONSULTANTS           UNIT CHIEF   ----------   S.O.P. r C.
COORDINATOR
PROCUREMENT         EXCTO               PRGRMI             ACOII               TECHNICA
CONTROL            CONTROL                AND             SUPERVISION        ASSISTANCE
REPROGRAIKDGl    SUPERVISION
1 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
2 ENGINEERS.



52
TABLE 3.1
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disburuements of Bank Loan
(in US Million Dollars)
By the end of
Fiscal Year               Annual            Cumulative          Percentage
1994                 88.9                 88.9               26
1995                131.1                220.0               65
1996                 74.9                294.9               87
1997                 23.8                318.7               94
1998                 14.3                333.0               98
1999                  6.0                339.0               99
2000                  1.0                340.0              100
Assumptions:  Loan Signings         July 1993
Loan Effectiveness:  September 1993
Project Completion:  June 1999
Loan Closing Date:   June 2000



53
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 13
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Policy Letter of the Government
1.   Attached is a copy of a document sent to the Bank by the Secretary of
Public Works and Communications of Argentina, Mr. Wylian Otrera on October 22,
1992, and an attachment signed by Administrator General of DNV, Lic. Miguel A.
Salvia, explaining the Government policy concerning the road sector in the
country.



54    NOTA SOPYC No 308/93            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 13
~ ?fl4 Nogamea         REF: NOTA 106/92
CKa4,N  Qo CA4co2' 
Secretar(a de Obras Pubilcsa y
Comunicaclones                 BUENOS AIRES, 23  ABR  1993
Treasury Deparlment Public
Work and Services Public
Work and Communicadon Executive Office
Ing. Alfonso SANCHEZ
S                                      D
Chief of the World Bank Mission for the VI Loan of road maintenance of lhe
Argentine Republic:
Ref. :Letter of Intent of the Public Works
and Communications Excc uLive 0)lfice
of the Argenline Republic.
I hereby submit a summary of the present economical situation of tile transpora
section, specilicaly of the road area, and of the future policy the National Governincnt will
apply in said section.
Yours faithfully,
S-_g~--
wstaio de Obras Nb!icaz y Conunic:ziiofs
Public Works and Communications
Buenos Aircs, October 22 nd, 1992



*    ,                     /            55                         ANNEX 1
i' ,                                  I ;       |Pate 3 of 13
R*EF: SLIMIIIIARFY OF Tt-I LETTER OF lytlENT EY TH9 EPtJ&C WPH5S QI99MYNIQ0119NS
EXECJ'IVE C)FF-CE                                  ED IN FCTFEiER E       d992.
The  general  governmental policy tends to strengthen and incentivate   the
inves.tment  capacity  o-f the private sector offering the  appropiate  legal
;ba.ckgrounti   together with the State rearrangement, the privatizing process
of FPublic Companies ard the plowing bark; of the public sector.
Within  thie  schedule of Public Irnvestment the road work;s  have  a  special
relevance.
In  the  .1993  BEudg+ ; the  Plan of' Works  of  the  DNV   (Nlational  Road
Fvdepratlion)  4pproaches the amouMnt of Uss 300 millions,  plus  the  foreign
I firiarcing, in opposition to U$S 114 mi'llions invested in! 1992.
Since  Decree number 2284/91 the Gover;nment strengthened its policy towards
a gradual and deep deregulation of all the Economy Sectors.
*     Decree  nttmber  2408/91  states the Privatizing  Processes  and  Concession
poJ icy of Pub'tic Companiesi  
Ihe eliflinationl of the register of State Suppliers, the elimination  of the
Register  of  Construction' Companies and the eliminationriof the  regime  of
t.igher costs were the main measurements announced in Octbber 7th. , 1992.
Decree number 1494 dated in AuguSt 20th.41992 establistes the  deregulation
policy for'the land freight transporrt subsection.
As  for  the  granted road system,  the performance of important  works  iis
Pstimated  foi+ 1993,  and they will strengthen the systemn and  its  natural
ac(:cej)pta,(n c  and support by the user.                                        I
Dtring  1993,  a  group of important works in the non--granted  road  'system
(28.000  Km.) will be finished and no new works will be ttarted.  These two
facts  will  brinig  a relief in the E4udget of  the' D.N.V.  (National  Road
Federation). Only basic works of urgen't need will be execLted.
We  wish to bicl the first works of the VI DIRF Loan dutring the first  'four-
month term of 'the next year.             I
The Argentine Government will grant in the next years the maximLm  priority
level to the maintenance and care of tihe maln National Road System ; U$S 40
*millions eAch year will be devoted to this task.
It  is the aim of the Governmental are:a to study together with the  D.N.V. .
; the  COT  (Construct,  ODper-ate,,  Transfer)  systems to grant  to  only  one
contrattor   the construction and mairiltenarice for periods> lonper than  four
!  years.  TI'ius,  the best cornditions wil'l be created to transfer roads to the
,'    provinces.    I
The  National 'Government is negotiating with several provinces the transfer
of  the  entrances to the big cities, ' being conditions for this  fact  the
respect  of technical standards and national global political  issues,"  and
thie imitation of privatizing processes;. 
l he  Nationalj Government  is analysing a new  National  and  International
PFublic  Bid fdr the conces'siorn of thre 'entrance road system to the  cit>t  of
Ue,, Air es.                               
|              ~~~~~~~~~I        .                             I
_ _ _ _                   ,.                    ?              i.



/             56
ANNEX 1
I i  .   .   ,   Page 4 of 13
grien-al economrca1    r.eivgs  _raqstr! Xetign a   road rmct=sgsQ.pf
1- General ecqgromical .r5-Ejective-  f   yrar.s 1.9?2 and 199|3
1.1l- Gross Domestic Prodt.tct (G D..P      j
The  foreseen  !G.D.P.  for  1992 amounts to  153,O00  mill.ion  dollars(6,.5%
in'zremeent) ,  and for 1993.. it is estim,ited in 168,300 million dollars (4p,9%
increment).
I.. Z- 'Y'reaRs"Lry 
The  treasury surplus calcultated for 1992 amounts to 3.200 million dollars.
wl-:lch  is  coh rent  with  thtat obtained up to  ji.ne  1992  (1,685  million
dol:lars) .  For1 1993,  the calculus for' treasury surplus amoun ts  to  3,400
mi: J lian dollarl.                                       i
A  SUbStantial  improvement  in tax collection  is being  acthieved   'for., the
inn<ovfe  dutring  'the first semester of 1992 is 40 * h:igher than  the  amoun t
rco i. ste?r-'ed in the t3ame periocl of 199. j
1.-3-- Farvign Debt
The  clebt re-financing (Brady FPlan) has relieved Fublic Finances  (Remission
of   35 :   and! raised  the4  quotatition ! of  the  Argentine   Foreign   Debt
Securi ties, thaf.  is  to  say1,the Guaranrteed  Ref inancing  Agreement(G.R.A..)
which..from  U$5 20,1 in' the second trim!ester of 1991 raised up' to $41,.5  in
tthe same period of 1992(for' each U*S 100 of nominal value).
The refinancing of the debt with the Club of Faris (U$S 9.000 million)  was
also achieved, obtaining a term of 16 years wi th option to four years more.
: 1."a- Domestic Debt
The  Decree  2i1/92  and other rules thereof.  have set off  a  process  of
liquidation  of  debts in this fiscal year,reached by the funding  of  debt
stated by Act 23..892.                      |
This  fact will  normalize the finrancial relationship'between the State and
a  greeat  par-t I of  its  s3uppliers  and  contractors,   thus  turning    the
conrtinuation  of works easy and streng-thening the operative capaci ty o'f the
comrpanies.;
1.i-Foregn A lrg'.
Imports during 1992,  calculating the figures registered up to the mon th o'f
August  will  approach  the amount of. US 12:300  millions,,  30X  of  which
constitutes capital assets.' i
With  the  same methodology,  exports may fluctuate in the  amount  of  U*S
12,400  millicns.  This  calculus woUld! show a possible surplus o'f U$S I 100
millions..
For  1993,  'the estimates contained in ,the Btudget Projectisubmitted to  the
Honorable  Congress raise the SsurpluS of the Balance o'f Tiade to U*S  2,000
millions,  amount  obtained by summing ~tp U$S 14,320 millfons from  Exports
and U$S 12.320 millions *froin Imports.  I
2.     I ,
.                                  .I



I  i    /             57                          ANNEX 1
57 |  tPage 5 of 13
Therefore,  the  surplUs  projected for 1993 will result by  maintaining  a
volUme of imports simnilar to 1992,  and  i.ncreasing the exports presence  of
the coutntry.                                     .
1 .6-Investmerits
The  general .aovernmental policy tendis to strengthen and  incentivate  the
investment capacity of the Private Sector,  by offering an appropiate legal
baclkground togetlher with the State rearrangement;the privatizing process of
Public Companies and the plowing back ofl the Public Sector.
Wi thin  the  schedutle of Public Investmeint,  the Road Works have a  special
relevance.                               I   I
In  the  1993  Eludget,  the Plan of Workls  of  the  D.N.V.;  (National  Roacl
Fe'deration)  (Financing of the NaWtiorial Treasury) approaches the amount  of
l!$S 300 millions, plus the foreign firiancing.
1.7-Privati zing P_rcesses 
The  Frivatizin i, process  starts  in Aug.st 1989 with  the  Act  of  State
Rearrangement number 23.696.
Tl h   Dt.2cre 2408/91 states the Privati. z ihg Processes arnid Con cession  FPl icy
of Public rCompn,n:Les.
The  rpsoltttion  M.E.yOyS.F  (Treasury  D)epartment  and  Public  Works  anid
Ser'Acicas) 1.610/9.1 states adtZministrative proceedings.
The  resolutionIs  l. E.yOyS..P.  551/92 and 837/92 state the National  FPblic
diebt-equity  conversion to be applied  to the payment of the bidding  assets
in  the privat:iLzing processes.
This  legal  background,  arising  from  1 clear and firmn  decision  of ithe
government  hyAs; produ.ced to the state an income of aproximhately U$S  5 ,000
millions c.ash, arid U*S 8,000 in debt securities in the period 1990/92.
I .                                .-Derq?qLajtion  I
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Since  decree,  2284/91,  the Government strengtheried its policy   towards  a
gradual and deep deregulation of all the economy sectors..
Said  act.on  will  allow   the  private  sector  to  redUce    costs.improve
e-fficiency and w;ill also encourage investments and competition.
In  the  exports  sectors,  the benefits are estimated in  nearly  U*S  500
millions due to formalities decrease and elimination of duties.
For  the state,  these measutres constitutte either savings or larger  income
which,  after  due deduction of costs and m:i.nor revenUe will provide in the
finc.al year 199;2 a net positive resLtlt of nearly U$S 150 millions.
1.9-Na5tionral Economic lBord
The  Decree nutmber 1717/92 has created the National Ecoromic EBoard for  the
lFrodutction, Investment and Expansion.
Said  Board  wilJl  be integrated by representatives of  the  Employees  and
Employers sectors and of the state,  presided by the Ministry of Economy of
the Nation.       ;                     -
Tt  will  cbnstitute the specific scope for the  elaboration  of  proposals
which will1 be anelysedi by the competen t  rganisms.              I
1.10-Main Ecnqoml cal measures annopuced o_ Oc tgbgr Zthb.1 ix 9
'1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,



I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
, .   .  t              58                  Page!6 of 13
'To stress; the deregulation in the wholesale markets of fresh products.
'To deepen the deregulation of professional services.
- To  simpli fy and secure a greater opening of the regime of access to  the
po$tal market.
- To  release  the  contracting  conditi6ns in the  activities  related  to
communvication and copyright.
- To  simpl:ify  Ithe  requisites to include new services  in  the  following
sectors.- lloney   Exchange Offices,  Tourism Agencies,  Btusiness Travellers,
Medical  visi tor's,  Lottery  Offices,  Rbgistered Gas Fitters and  Sale  of
optt.cal elements.
--In,! Foreigri Tra
* To s.imp lify the granting, of certificates of origin.
* To dereaulate the addministration of -fiscal deposits of goods in ports and
airports.
*  To eliminate -(anik authorizations to support ax paymen-t and  control  of
export invoices by the D.G.I6 (General Tax Bureau).
* To simplify the ref.rnds collection.
*  To  eliminate the Securiity Insttrance guaran teeing the lac k  of -shipping
c:Iocurnlen t.s.  ,        
* To simplify the reqJisites for cosmeti Cs imports.
-In Piublic Work-.Fs-
* To eliminate the Register of State Suppliers.
* To eliminate the Register of Constructioni Companies.
* To elimina-te the regime of higher costs. /
1.11- In teqrration.
T he  Ar-gen tine Government keeps a clear and firm  position as member of  the
IIERCOSUR ,  bearing in mind that throutgh the total trade deregulation among
the countries members,  the activation of their economies will be achieved,
thuS  widening the m;atrket to 200 millions of potential consumers,  a global
Net  Froduct of 420,000 million dollars and a working power of 70  millions
*of persons.
j opalZsi5s of the differnt sectors
! . 1. - F'orts a-nd Navigblg Wat2r..
rhe  Act 24.0?93 ,(6/3/92) refers; to the port activities,  stating the  rules
governing a:L:L the aspects related to the authorization,  administration and
operatiorn of the State and private ports' in all the countrr;
The  port  subject is completed with Decree 817/92  which  establishes  the
*deregulationl  thereof,   dissolving  thei AGP  (Administracion  General  de
p'uertos)  (General  Port  Administration,)  and the  General  Port  Master's
Office. 
By virtue of 3Act 24 ,093  the, ports may pass to provincial jurisdiction with
the  previous  application submitted by Wach Government;  in such  a  case,
ownership and administration will be transfered.
., I                              ,         I                          '      '4
Ij                                       ;



59                        ANN1 1
Page 7 of 13
At present.  f'ro m a total of eleven provinces with ports,  only Tierra  del
-  I t.iego is mrn:isi9ng ( IJsuI.aia 8nAi Rio Graride ) F
;T he   income  obta:i ned  by  each  of  the  provinces  throLugh  their   port
e xpIai tat:ion   wil:L  be  devoted  to  the  improvement  of1  the   operation
conditions. development. training, etc..
In  relatiion   tca  nav:igable  waters,   a  projiect  of  privatizing   process
(concession  system)  is  now being carried  forward,  be the  dredging  and
buoying o3f r:ivers.
Tbhe  stUdy   concentratesri  in the section ranging  from   F'uerto  San  Martin
(Rosiario) up to the ocean outlet, th.at is to say , throutgh the Flarana river
up  to the external limit of the Rio de CLa Plata river,  in an extension of
650  Km..  The  cuncessio3n de termines that the  concessionaire  dredges  the
channells   that  the User pays toll,  and that the state exercises  control
cover all th,? svste-.                         j .
-Argent:ina, EBrasil. Uruguay, F'araguiay, and Bolivia share the exploitation: of
the  rivers Parana.,  Faraguay ar(i Ur-utgutay whichi constitute a  COmmuLnication
waterway  called  "hidrovi a "   It  goes 'through 'Paraguay  river  from   the
locality cxf Caceres (IMlato Grosso).; contioit.tes up to itsin  the F'arana
river  and -foLlows the latter up to M.uev  F:Palmira Fort in UrugLay,  on  bne
d f the sides of Rio dte la Plata river.'
2  ,T.I. .. ....a...s. . n
a) Freight r,ans;port:
* General Urqi.i za line:
Il: I. was  sunbmi tted -to th-e consideration otf the Transport  Executive  Office
hIaving   the  offer  for  concessioni  been  presented   by  the   "Consorcio
Ferrocarri L. vlesopotam:ico" (FFerrocarri1 Mesopotamico Association)..
* General San Mlartin Linie and part of Sar!mnierito Line:
FPre-gran ted  by Resolution of the Treasufry Department and Putblic Works  and
Services  number 684/92 and objected by ptther offering firms.  It is  under
*onsidleration of the 'T-easti-y Attorney.  '
*I  rle era  :I. g .I rano Li.n:e1 no
The  offer  preIs-rsinted by tihe "Union Fer-roviaria" (Railway Uhion)  is  being
anaJy>sed at present (article 1.6, section 2 from  Act 23.696) 
* General Roca Line (remaining sections):                           t
By  Resolution  numrnbe r :1.077/92,  it was p.re-'granted to "Consorcio  Ferrosur
Ro3ca" (F(errosur FRoca Assoc:Lation), with a;n extension of 4620 I<ms:
b) FPassengers Transport:
* Delta- EBorges L:ine- Ie.
By  Resolution  of -the Treasury Department and F'ublic  Works  and  Services
number  1O52/92, ' the  granting  and contracting by Argeentinle  Railways  in
favour of the Commercial Society of La Plata (Ex-t. 15 KIms.) was passed.
* Altamirano    Miramar L_ine (Butenos Aires - MIar del Flata):
TThe  Techn1ic:aI!  Committee, is evaluating the offers sutbmnitted  in  September
8th..,  :1.992  (I.nvelope 2) being the pre-g-anting foreseen for the month  of
November 1992;   i
*  Buenos  Aires irrains and Subways:Mitre,  Sarmientoi,  Urquiza  Lines  and
Buenos Aires Subwfys:!
The  envelope containing the economical pr-oposal has not been  opened  yet,
dLte  to the .:iudictial remedy submitted by 4mne of the of'fering firms  against
the resolutioxn denyitnig the qtalification thereo'fp
I 



ANNEX 1
I  '  '    '  :!   60   t  Page 8 of 13
Ro* ca and San Martin Lines:
Ir  September  25th.  1992  the  opening of the  envelope  containing   the
en terprise schedule took place;
* 14elgrano Norte and EBelgrano Sur  iness
In  September  25th.   1992  the opening of  the  envelope  containing   the
enteirpr-ise schedule took place;
c) Passengjers Interurban Service:           '
Psy  l)ecre.x  1:168/92,.  the National Gover-nmerit ordered the: elimination of the
I l>s-X:5 eIIrS  intel-urban' services since 7/31/92,  with exclusion of  the  one
rL'nnilg from FPlaza Constitutcion to Malar del F'lata- Miramar;
Sh':i.d tc lhe  j.:rovinces  be inlterested *in maintaining said  services  either
r par tia lIy C"r tco t:al.ly  ' they rnust be responsible for the cost  thereof.  The
N ation  wi     hare 1  50` o-f' the economi:cal defi.cit the service  miight show  utp
*1o0 1Z,' :l.;'S\A2. IFrom  1/1193 onwards,  tliie provinces shall be responsible  for
t:h1e :I00%  of s9,i.d deficit.
3:-*   I1.1t ri. j:. J: f  'T r-ansport  '                         I
* I....II )      "1'    ........ ...... 
rl FI.IIA S.A.N I
'T' -e b:iddi.ncl concditions for the privati zing process have been drawn up.  The
d raft  dec: ree ,aIpIrovjing them  has been addressed to the President for him  to
-.3.g  1it.
24-- La   Tr' n 1. ! i sport
R ) Frle :icg 1ht.
-Decree  number 1494 dated on the 20/08/92 states the deregulation   policy
-for thiS 5Ub-- section.                                    '
- It. will. be applied to the interjuricdictionial transport,  that is to say:
a) between the provinces and the Federal Capital;  b) between. provinces; c)
Lin  nta ItionaI. ipor ts and airports,  or be tween any of theMn and  the  Federal
Ca>pi(:tal or the provinces; d) between OUr country and the foreign countries;
Arti C:,i.e 35 nf s.aicl decree st'a1:tes:
* F'ree adm:i ssion to the leenders market 
* Freedo d(:)m of agireerneri t: between parties;                  '       i
* *  Tc) keep th?Ar tr-affic safetyi
*  Fetspect ForIthe principles of free competitionri  of the' consumer's rights,
etc;
*  Limitedc  interferenc:e  of the  National  Public  Administration   tending
exclusivelY t6 the preservaticon of the be-forernentioned matters;
*  The mere- enrollment in :the National Record of the lan,d freight transpor-t
that will be automatic, and the payment of the supervision  rate, grants the
pet:i .tioner  the  right  to perform  th6  activity   withoLtt  neither  tariff,
regul.ar-:. t) conditions nor limitations,           
-     b) Passengcj.'rs Transport:
- Decree  number  958/92 states the deregulation  policy applicable to; this
sUb-section;                                           -           !
-Conc:erning    lancd   passengers  transport  developed    in   the   national
*    /ivUrisdiction area which inclUdes the in terjirisdictional; transports
I~ ~          .           .-



'I                                      ' 61  |ANNEX 1
* Between the ptovinces and the FederailCapital;             Page 9 of 13
* Between provinces;
*  Between natipnal ports and airports,' among them or between any of  them
'and the FederaljCapital or the provinrces p                      I
*  It will not Oe applicable to all activity developed in the Region of the
iCity of Bttenos Aires;
- The National Registry of the land passenger transport is created.
- The passenger transport Companies registered a-t the National Registry
rendering, public or executive services will be able to render  touristical
services informing said decision to the pertinent authority;
2.5- Road XIntfr._tructure
It  is  estimated  that during the 1993 fiscal  year  the  provincial  road
ferierations  will  reorganize their finances by restraining  the  expenses,
beginnirig  no  new  works, 'finishing  works in operation  and  the  agr-eed
increase of their specific funds (Act nium:ber 2;:3.966);
a) Granted Road'stem (9.300 Kms):
Due to Decree number 523/91 the contracts were renegociateti with an average
tar if f ad justrnerit of around 60%.
In general the inew tariffs were put in to practice without  iifficulty.
T'he 1993 investment schedule, incltde important works.  It is estimated that
the  fulfillment  of said expectations will strengthen the: syste:m   and  'its
natural acceptance and support by the p)Ublic.
"T'he  performance of the conItractual obligations by the concessionaires  is,
'in general, satisfactory.
b) Ungranted 'Road System (28.000 Km)..:
.The budget of the D..N.V.' (National Road' Federation) for 1993 in the actutal
irnvestment   area  is  of  around  283  mnillion   pesos  (present  argentine
currency).  Comparing it with the bLuCiget- for last year,  i14 million pesos,
the increase is significant..
T Thank-s  to the amount devoted to the continuation of sonme of the wor-ks  now
in  opoi-ation  it  is estimated that an timportant groutp of, works  will  be,
finished next ye,ar.. Said sitLuation together with the fact that no important
works will *be initiated wi].l result in aj relief of the bud4et of the D.N.V.
(National Road Federation). ,                I                   I
The  biddi,iv on wuorks considered of urgent need,  specially emergency  road
repavement at tho end' of this year and dpring the next one will take place.
We wish to bid during the first four-mnonths term of the next year the first
works o-f the VI bIRF Loan..
c) Maintenance policy foe the Ungranted (Zoad System:
i The Argentine Go?ernmpnt will devote the,maximLm priority level to the care!
and maintenance bf the main national road system..
For  this pUrpos; fuinds for routine maintenance of around 40 million  peSos -
will be devoted every year..
.                     .    ..                        I        .   .   .
*~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .
7  I       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,~~~~~~~~~~~'                            ; 



621                           ANE 
*Page LOof 13
;aid  works:  :generaly  small and medium-sized works,  will keep the" road
,  system  in  good conditions and will 0iularge th*e scope  of  concessions  to
smaller  comnpanied  according to the  I-omotion of the 'PlES";announced  by
the Ilinistry of Economy.                  I '
.1 This areat of the Government will study-   together with the D.N.V. (National
Road Federation S  thl?e CD'I' (constructJ: operate, transfer') systems to try :to
I; grant to one contractor the construtCtion and maintenanrce' works for  periods
,   - f more thrtn Tour- yeArs.               l!   
To  avoid  the, obstruction of the negoiations of the B.I (World Bank)  for
the   VI  Loar, for' contractual  periods  longer  than !;those   of   their
negoc-.attoris,  we ! stud>i  the  poss i4bility  o-f  establishing  a  minimLum
mainten.-tnce dd4adline otl 2 'years and ar !optional period of two, more years Pn
the  decision lonf ti-,e State,  that wouliJ be ;responsible'f6r the cost ar*sih'g
from the 'atteQ  period.               I   j                            .
Our   aim   t&  per-form  the  road  rehabilitation  with  a   fouir   years'
n anaintenanice  would  create the best cofiditions *f'or their;'transfer  to  the
provinces, 'witih  a  good  service leve,  and without  expenses  during  the
ma'.maintenance perioc:d, -                                                  ' '
*  t l'ho:!  Nlatio:)nal 43overnment initends to solve the problems of the entrances  tp
the  Dig Citi(;s in a relatively short !term,  and as they are in general the
ones having heavier traffic and the ones that rieed the biggest investments,
it  will mal:e 1it easier to devote the iiberated fujti'ds to maintain the  roAd
systern in tile linterior which, although,i having lessi traffic, is relevant for
the development of the National Econot'. -I
;d) Entranrces t6' flg Cities:             I             '            I
The  Na tiornal (Government is nergociating withi several provinceg; to  transfer
th->m the entrakices to the big cities,  ikeeping for itself the 'ownership and
jUrisdiction  dyver  them and with thQe -ondition that they  will  undergo  a
privatizing   p!-ocess together with per-tbi-mance of technical  specifica.tions
and  respect o'f the National policyj   opreererits with MerAkdozJ,  Salta  and
Sarita Fe are hr*ing pr-epared.         '  *                     ,      i
|   The  agreemnients  *to be' entered into arj? fleXible in their' characteristics,
ranging   f rom the provision of help in the elaboration of the  studies  and
projects  and  Joint financing of the works up to the trinsference for; the
province to perf'orm the studies,  projects,  design the concession bidping,
bid, grant and c' ntr'Iat.,
e) Entrances. to; the City of Et.tenos Airts:                    i:
The  National Governmen t,  is studying as an alternative la ntew design of  a
new National and Intei-riational Biddin g f'or the Concessiori of the  Entrances
Road System.  I                            '                     i
T'he aim is to mtake th( competition clear in a,new situation of sta'bility as.
the  present oQie and to achiieve better-conditdons for the public  resulting
'in  more worksfl  more iniitial investmer?ts and tariffs below the equili rium
tariff which prcotects the public.                               I  
It is our initei,tioni eiot to'granit all thI  system in favou.i pf on-I> one 9roup
but to iivolve' two or more groups of work-s or business.
T   intentiorn is to have the worlks grarjted be-fore May 199.3 -
I''    ',''";'    ' .; 'I                               ;   ',  I,



63                                ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 13
ANNEX
Road Sector Reform Policies
Starting from 1989 profound changes on road policy begun to take place in Argentina.
The sector's first legal instrument was Decree 823/89 formulating the road reconversion
policy. Fundamentally it is about redefining the national and provincial networks taking illto
account the changes registered in the production and distribution centers of the country and
their connection with the interrelation policies with neighboring countries, as well as making
the necessary changes in national and provincial road agencies both in their institutional and
operational aspects.
In April 1992 Decree 616/92 was issued approving the structure and the duties and
functions of the National Road Directorate. This structure incorporates a Road Reconvcrsion
Management to organize the aforesaid process.
Reconversion includes three aspects: reconversion of networks, reconversion of the
road agencies and reconversion of road operations.
The first one, as expressed above, includes restructuring the network composition
and, after the study has been completed, will imply the implementation of a system to
transfer jurisdictions from the Nation to the Provinces and vice versa.
The second reconversion, regarding road agencies, has already started witlh the
restructuring of the National Road Directorate and also with rc-organization processcs in
several Provinces. Fundamentally it is oriented towards organizing their activities to
provide efficiency in their field of action and eliminating red tape in their operations.
With regard to the reconversion of operations, there are two different aspects. One is
the difference of functions and operations between the national and the provincial agencics,
and the other is the modification of the contractual instruments with the companics working
for the agencies.
The first aspect, which is the central point in this process, refers to the transfcr of
activities in the national network, from the National Road Virectorate to tle provincial
agencies and the private sector.
The reform aims at a gradual process of participation of the provincial agclcies in
road matters.
Provincial participation in certain activities such as Control of Weigilts and Measurcs,
contributions in equipment and personnel, etc. have bccih agreed duriing rccent years.
The reform process will define a scries of agreemcnts on incrcased provincial
participation in the national network, where the obligations and paymcints or contributions to
I be made by the National Road Directorate will be established. In view of the diffcrent
0lE



t  64                      ANNEX 1
Page ]2 of 13
conditions existing among the provincial road agencies, the agreements will begin with pilot
Provinces to be extended to the others later on. In addition to the general agreements with
the pilot Provinces, there will follow agreements on transference of partial activities.
The initial duties to be transferred will include: Control of Weights and Measures;
traffic census; road inventory; maintenance of national roads; upgrading maintenance
projects; road building projects and highway construction projects.
A central point for this process is the transfer of maintenance activitics. In this sensc
and depending on each case, road sections or areas of the Provinces will be selected which,
in addition to the work to be performed, will receive part of the equipment presently existing
in the National Road Directorate, as well as workcamps and other goods.
As a result of this Reconversion, the duties of the National Road Directorate will
focus on planning, management and control of national roads. Moreover, special emphasis
will be placed on the activities related with technological development and its transfer to the
Provinces, and the current organization will be improved for the supervision of projects and
constructions, structural inspections, technical audit of delegated operations and managemcct
of national resources.
The process has started with the Pilot Provinces of Santa Cruz and La Pampa. In
these provinces it is expected that they would be in charge by 1995 of 100% and 60%,
respectively, of routine maintenance works on national roads in each province. The proccss
would also be accelerated in the remaining provinces starting in 1995. Starting in 1993,
other operating activities would be gradually transferred to thle provinces. The Governmlcnt
estimates that by the end of the cc tury the whole process of delegation of responsibilities to
the provinces would be completed.
ic. Miguel A. Salvia
idministrador General\
Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad
Secretarfa de Obras Publicas y Comiiunicaciones



Annex 1
Chronology of tasks to be Delegated to Provinces
1993    1994        1995       1996        1997       1998      1999    2000          2001    2002    2003
Weight & Dimension Control
Traffic Counts
Road Inventory
National Roads Maintenance
Earth Roads
to             Unpaved Roads
I-                Paved Roads
Periodic Maintenance                                                                                                                           o
Road Construction
Freeway Construction
II Pilot Program in Two Provinces    U Evaluation and Adjustment Period  * Implementation of the Program
0I
L'i



66
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
General Information on DPVs
1.        The entire Argentine road network has an overall length of about
216,569 km, divided into 37,828 km under DNV jurisdiction and 178,741 km forming
the provincial road networks. The latter are presented in Table 1, information
provided by the Federal Road Council (CVF), a coordinating agency between DNV and
DPVs. Of the total provincial network, about 19% is paved, and the remaining is
unpaved, mostly gravel and earth roads. The tertiary road network, not included
in the preceding data, is estimated to be around 400,000 km in length, and is
mainly composed by earth roads. However, the available statistical information
seems to be inaccurate, and outdated; from a sample of 9 provinces (Table 2), it
is apparent that the disparity between the information given by each province and
the CVF is large. One preliminary conclusion is the need to improve road network
information among provinces.
2.        Table 3 shows 1989 statistical information about the provinces and
includes general road indices of accessibility (km/100 sq. km), service to
population (km/1,000 inhabitants) and service to production (km/1,000,000 US$
GNP). These values present a big variation among provinces. In general, higher
accessibility indicators are related to richer, more populated and geopolitically
strategic provinces, while service to population and production are higher in the
poorer provinces, a result of promotion policies followed by the Government.
3.        Concerning provincial road conditions the Bank's mission collected
some information in 10 provinces, and the results indicate that 42% of the
network is in good, 37% in fair, and 18% in bad conditions. However, the
information is not consistent with other sources. No information is available on
the evolution of road condition along the years, although the present condition
shows an important backlog maintenance. With respect to new construction, the
provincial road network has not lately been developed in length, although there
has been some improvement in the pavement surface. Traffic information is not
available in most of the provinces; they do not have either adequate equipment
or trained personnel to do this job. Until 1985, DNV, through contracts with the
provinces, was collecting and processing traffic data in provincial roads, but
this  practice  has  been  interrupted  since  that  time  because  of  resource
limitations of DNV. A rough estimate over a reduced number of provinces infers
that the provincial network carries almost the same traffic as the national
network, measured in vehicle-km/day. Considering the differences in total network
lengths, this means lower traffic levels (in the order of one-fourth to one-
fifth) in the provincial roads, although the average AADT is about 250 vehicles
per day, which is fairly high.
4.        Maintenance of the provincial networks is, in general, not properly
done. Most of the provinces do not systematically carry out routine maintenance
all over their network, and expenditures are mostly related to construction of
pavement improvement. In a sample of 9 provinces (Table 4), capital expenditures
amounted to about three-quarters of total expenditure, but average capital and
maintenance expenditures per km seem to be reasonable.   There is no defined
criteria to assign funds to maintenance and capital expenditures, and, also,
there is no uniform criteria in geometric or pavement design. This is an area
where DNV has the exclusive leadership in developing design methods, and most of
the provinces adopt them. Maintenance and construction works are done by contract
or force account (Table 5), and field inspections are carried out by DPVs staff
or hired consultants.



67
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
5.        The expenditure budget structure is highly variable from one province
to another. Table 6 shows road expenditures in 1991 by each province, broken
down into major components; as an illustration of the wide variations, the share
of salaries in the total expenditure ranges from 5% to 87%, and the participation
of capital expenditure and maintenance varies between 6% to 95%. However, the
figures could be somehow misleading, because a substantial part of the
expenditures registered as public works, includes salaries related to maintenance
and construction done by force account, With respect to the total expenditure of
about US$478.0 million for all provinces, the mission estimated it is adequate.
Based on this order-of-magnitude estimate, the mission found that historically
the provincial annual budget, as a whole, has been enough to fund the maintenance
needs, and the main reasons for the unsatisfactory results have been
overstaffing, low efficiency in force account procedures and insufficient
supervision in contracted works.
6.        The DPVs depend either on the provincial Ministries of Public Works
or Economy. They are mostly autonomous, although there is a strong dependency on
the provincial finances. In general, the DPVs are highly politicized, and
decisions are commonly made on political grounds rather than on technical ones.
The organizations follow a typical pattern composed by Design, Construction,
Maintenance and Administration Departments, with the latter mostly related to
accounting, personnel and bureaucracy rather than to executive management. In
general, the planning function is weak or inexistent.
7.        The coordination between DNV and DPVs is carried out by the CVF,
integrated by representatives of both kinds of institutions, and is mainly
related to appropriations of funds and bureaucratic relationships between DNV and
DPVs. However, an informal, yet effective, coordination is held between the
districts of DNV and the DPVs.
8.        In summary,  several deficiencies were identified in the general
analysis carried out of the DPVs. Lack of basic statistical data, inadequate road
maintenance, lack of a defined criteria to assign funds on a demand basis, weak
or inexistent planning, incomplete management coverage and weak coordination
among the DPVs and DNV, seem to be the major and common deficiencies in most of
the DPVs. The technical assistance program of the proposed project aims to
strengthen the institutions and to improve the capacity of the DPVs, to enable
them to fulfill the new role they will play in the road sector.



68
ANNEX 2
Table 1
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Provincial Road Network Lenath (KM)
DPVs
Paved       Gravel        Eawth        TOTAL
Buenos Aires                    9,243          875       26,078         36,196
Catamarca                         606         2,170       1,052          3,828
C6rdoba                         3,473         1,424      18,603         23,500
Corrientes                        882         1,187       3,126          5,195
Chaco                             655           36        4,814          5,505
Chubut                            521        4,084          776          5,381
Entre Rios                      1,187         1,265       5,470          7,922
Formosa                           144            ---      2,675          2,819
Jujuy                             525         2,040       1,132          3,697
La Pampa                        1,699          301        5,771          7,771
La Rioja                          818         1,719       1,033          3,570
Mendoza                         2,471        2,864        9,727         15,062
Misiones                          521          637        1,501          2,659
Neuqu6n                           462          928        3,050          4,440
Rio Negro                         639         1,714       3,069          5,422
Salta                             589        2,376        3,786          6,751
San Juan                        1,408        2,209          506          4,123
San Luis                          814          798        4,801          6,413
Santa Cruz                        597         1,894       1,993          4,484
Santa F6                        3,313           40       10,426         13,779
Santiago del Estero             1,610         1,224       5,155          7,989
Tucuman                         1,014          986          235          2,235
TOTAL                33,191        30,771     114,779        178,741
Source: CVF



69
Table 2
ARGENTI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITTIaON SECORPFA3CT
Network Lenath Provided by CV? and Some Provinces
N _  T W 0       _     __
CVF        PROVINCE
Corrientes           5,195          8,476.21
Chubut               5,381          8,485
Zntre Rios           7,922         26,835.8
Jujuy                3,697          3,608
Formosa              2,819          5,782.27
La Rioja             3,570          4,200.5
Nouqu6n              4,440          5,524.08
Salta                6,751          6,751
San Luis             6 413          6 413
TOTAL      46,188        76,075.86
Relationship for 9 Provinces: 1.65.
Sources:  CVF and Provinces.



ftpgindd PWW Nqwmk S olc - Laud Lidsusm- Aasammgv. Sinuic to P.pWddb,. S.whe to Pbodmo
FlIMINOCIAL~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~_______TT. AW~LNA
W6A                                                                         tiloues*             NSouA    buVlOOkmi                 POW1VlmN           6..10 Usfl
ouIECrMTu                       PCIULAUS             AREA nA1         prAgICtL  eW                 Lug*    AcmeU3                $GM. hPWWdmd              "W. ow
bVW$" Mm"                        10.986.408             307.671               22.060              34.999            11.34                3.21                 1.54
CA&mm.                             207.71               102.602                3.375               3.66              3.76               16.67                10.34
chrd.b.                            66.454                win5                  1.365               6.n6              5."                 7.65                 3.96
____________701.302                                      00.633                  625               4.671             4.06                6.64                 S.0
_____________23.116                                     224.446                 1.762              6.361             2.36                20.45                3.05
-rpeO                           961k13                76.761                 1.266               L56               S.5"                6.26                5.919
heni                               220.66?               72.066                  442               2.526             3.50                6.5                  5,72
.4J*w                              4160600               53216                   640               2.415             0.41                9.32                 4.06
La VW"                             306.260               43.446                  "a2               7.n               5.33               36.75                 6.66
La IN*                             164.217               66.01                   532               2.511             2.76                16.36                4.71
Mft a                             1.166.62              146L627                2.66               1sb6@7            10.62               13.21                 6.12
kfda                                W.Wi                 26.66                   on                2217              7.43                3.76                 367
_________ _243.60"                                       94.670                 1.627               2722              3.616              5L2                  2.26
ab "We                             3S3.354              203.013                1.266               6.037             2.46                13.13                367
6db                                66267                195.4616               1,410               46.22             4.16                 6.63                4.42
GWAAM                              465,.676              96.051                  765               4.65              4.52                 9.70                L.30
am Lode                            214.418               76.746  _________                         5.034             6.65                23.47                6.27
go". cm                            114.641              343.643                  v16               4.617              2.01               42.77                6.0l
Sew" 16                           2.405.644             133.007                7.402               1 2.6162          6.51                 L.13                1.71
6g.. dd low.                       564.020              136.351                  736                ?.96             5.7"                13.26               10.15
TuOamn                             672.655               22.524                2.213                2.717            12.06                2.76                1.22
W1  W               _  _  _  _  _  _    __  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    __171 .962               _  _  _  _  ___                            _  _  _  _  _
Tis.u.duiFmg.p                      26,32                20.612                 603                   No42.37                            30.14                12
Faedwa Cam"t                      2.622.830                 0.2               17.665 
Faded Taidha vdimn OhB kda,mdmn was preaAms&



flOAD MAU NANr  AoND FI0ECArAIO
LENGT H    4                                                                     EXPENDITURE4S  PII
I   a 0                60W          TATSON         _        I       &V mDMcI               T60.             W             TATlo         &VWMTEINCE                                TOT.
C..i.im 1I                              375             M."              i.galls         S.4S&ga               -        te.m.m               780.6            2.1107.604       22.423.9016
_   II                1276               1.0 sao                           I?."*         1i7.0           2.067.34          h1b               37L5lM            1.4.1100         5.3074
la". ana3            17S*1            363.36             91173             1gAm          20476MS        ll.67.170        3.340.016           $34.666           20910.312       sen.66016
J*q 4            ~40              301w                 -              313011    3      .646         006.00         6.3260                   -             .P2.s.011..
-44. 5a                                           2        00IL4.66                        116.10                 -           1.610.in          1.76.4610
O*WS                  106A               is                IS6            2.430.6           2.761        132.130               Ka                 M             OMAN0           V.401.142    -
"rope" V                131                                 so0             1.660           I.m          7.160*0             Mmfm              skew.            63060           7.0mmA
6ak VI                   30               S                                  me             6*31         3.60.0              2.100                -1.200.60                     4.421.000
GM 1m                    30               -                  -              6.41            6.436        I.000.6                -                              1 .b02.30        2.011S046
601.70     1*60.66             0o0.71          63.700.74        607.0          U.442.311       31.0107.673         2162.006          10.204.300       0.,46720
IL 1, a% W.s Vu. Wk  n b M4* ,t,d W all MW,  t@|ROL@
I. 2..4, S. _   bWsmm a b  a0 do  M_ iUsa u9iNIN             C
Avuqa epdmootw                         - USO 30.23
AvuswA            v wS*m m    _ Sm f   MWtl   I  314.00
AYWuea .pmiWamu        ~       -       1.2"401



72
ANM 2
Table 5
ARGlSNTINA
30AD MAINTENANCE AND RZHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Execution of Road Works
CONTRACT       FORCE ACCOUNT
1 9 3                                                           TOTAL
US$     %          USS $
Oorriente s   1         68,410,794   100       12,852      0   68,423,646
Chubut                   3,580,145    60   2,335,385    40    5,915,530
Intre RIoS    2         23,165,190    85   3,966,696    15   27,131,886
Jujuy         3            884,000    59      606,100    41    1,490,100
@ormosa                     55,700      3   1,680,000    97    1,735,700
La Rioja                 1,431,416    57   1,059,726    43    2,491,142
Neuqu#n                  5,000,000    62   2,955,000    38    7,955,000
San Luie                 1,080,649    51   1,002,300    49    2,082,949
1, 2, 3   -   Information is not consistent with total expenditure.



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
1991 Road Expenditures by Province (in thousand. of USS)
P R O V I H C _              PERSONNEL        ADHINIST.           SUBTOTAL        PUBLIC WORKS             OTHER           SUBTOTAL                TQTAL
Buenoe Aires              22,348  (41)            22,455             44,802        3,461  (06)             5,835               9,296              54,098
Cataa rca                 10,121   (87)              110             10,231         1_119  (10)               342  1_461                          11,692
C6rdobe                    4,834   (16)            9,S58             14,392       16,725  (54)                 33             16,757              31,149
Corrientes                 2,523  (14)               284              2,807       15,203  (84)                  I             15,204              18,011
Chaco                      4,537  (22)             5,330              9,867        9,680  (46)             1,406              11,089              20,956
Chubut                     2,224  (22)               148              2,373        7,S71   (75)               191  7_762                          10,135
Entre Uoe                 16,480  (36)             2,310             18,790       12,193  (27)            14,537              26,730              45,521
Foroms 2a093  (17)                                   292              2,385        9,975  (81)                  O              9_975              12,361
Jujuy                      2,411  (46)               252              2,663        2,526  (49)                  O              2,526               5,190
La Pa.pa                   3,4_ 3  (24)              483              3,926        9,607  (68)                734             10,541              14,467
La Rioja_                   ,919  (35)               162              6,081        8,336  (49)             2,575              10,911              16,992
Mendoza                9_ 621  (61)                  446             10,067         4,734  (30)               817              5,551              15,619
Micionee                   7,719  (33)               942              8,661        14,455  (63)                 2             14,457              23,118
weuquin                    5,045  (31)             1,755              6,800        9,123  (55)               539               9,662              16,462
PNo Negro                    343  (05)                 2                345        6,529  (95)                 --              6,529               6,875
Salta                       5,377 (46)             1,858              7,236        1,887  (16)             2,638              4,525               11,761
San Juan                   4,322  (64)               II4,43                        2,303  (34)               __                2,303               6,736
San Luil                   6,278  (17)             3,978             10,257       26,011  (72)                 __            26,011               36,269
Santa Cruz                 1,925  (11)               476              2,400       14,670  (81)                983     __      15,653              18,053
Santa Fd                  18,117  (27)            25,939             44,056       22,285  (33)               449             22,735               66,790
Santgo del Eatero          9,729  (43)           757,385             10,486       11,969  (53)             __1,6_                                 22,456
Tucu_ n                    5,852  (42)               374              6,226        7,537  (55)                 30              7,567              13,793
*W.A.        151,262  (32)        78,025           229,287       218,104  (46)            31,116            249,219             478,506
Source: CVF
Note: The figures In parenthesis Indicate the percntage of the total expenditure for each province.
O'.






75
ANNEX_3
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Repionalization and Decentralization Process
Pilot Provinces of Santa Cruz and La Pampa
1    Two pilot provinces have been selected under the project to monitor progress
in the decentralization experiences, in line with the regionalization and
decentralization policies of the National Government. The Province of Santa Cruz
ahich has been for years executing maintenance of the National Network within the
province. The Province of La Pampa which is also willing to enter into accords
with the DNV to maintain the National Road Network within the Province. Table
6 of Annex 2 shows that these provinces presented an adequate and balanced
structure of road expenditures in 1991.
Province of Santa Cruz
2.   The Province of Santa Cruz, is the most southern province in Argentina.
The DPV is in charge of a provincial road network length of 7,000 km (595 km of
paved roads and 6,405 km of unpaved roads). For more than 20 years the DPV has
been performing the maintenance of the national network within the Province based
on an accord signed between DNV and DPV. DNV funds the works and DPV executes
them by force account. The system is considered to have worked successfully for
the last 8 years. The National Road Network in the Province is 1,025 km of paved
roads and 1,610 km of unpaved roads. Special climatic and working conditions
determine that force account system for routine maintenance is more convenient
than contracting. Construction and periodic maintenance of the paved network,
both national and provincial, is done by contract. Additional accords signed by
the DPV and DNV cover areas such as axle load control and highway inventory. DPV
is willing to increase the degree of delegation from the national level to the
provincial level.
3.   The Province's annual budget for the road sector is US$18,000,000 funded
as follows: US$5,500,000 from national fuel taxes, US$1,800,000 from DNV and the
rest by provincial revenues. The Province's expenditures for the road sector are
US$23,500,000 for administration, capital and recurrent costs for the provincial
network and US$1,800,000 for national network maintenance. DNV support is not
considered enough to fund a high maintenance standard (condition) on all of the
network. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project will increase funding
for routine maintenance in Santa Cruz to US$4,898,00 per year by 1995.  Such
additional revenue puts into question the capability of DPV's force account
system to perform the additional work. DPV's actual equipment is 45 graders, 10
loaders, 20 bulldozers and 40 trucks.   DPV is planning to buy additional
equipment (11 graders, 4 loaders, 3 bulldozers, 15 trucks and 2 compactor units)
to increase their working capability. DPV is willing to buy or rent additional
equipment, if necessary.  DNV should check DPV capability before reaching an
agreement to increase financial support. In addition, an accord between DNV and
DPV is going to be signed for the latter to manage US$13,500,000 of road
construction during the next 30 months.
4.   An Action Plan (Table 1.7 of the text) has been discussed and agreed in
principle with DNV and the DPV of Santa Cruz.



76
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Province of La Pampa
5.   The Province of La Pampa is a mediterranean province on the Pampa-Patagonia
boundary. DPV has been autonomous for 30 years. The length of the road network
in La Pampa is 26,000 km (8,000 km in the provincial network, of which there are
1,800 km paved roads and 6,200 km unpaved roads, and 18,000 km of municipal
unpaved roads). The national network length in the province is 1,500 km (1,300
km of paved roads and 200 km of unpaved roads). An accord between DPV and DNV
is under process to delegate 416 km routine maintenance of the national network
(139 km of paved roads, 88 km of gravel roads and 189 km. of earth roads), to be
managed by DPV. The Province is willing to enter into additional agreements to
maintain national roads.
6.   Maintenance and construction is mainly done by contract with force account
maintenance limited to earth roads. The DPV has a long experience in delegating
the execution of maintenance tasks to the municipal level.  DPV La Pampa is
institutionally comparatively strong. The staff is 470 agents (25 engineers, 56
technicians, 60 administrative and 329 laborers).  The equipment includes 75
graders,  15 loaders,  13 bulldozers and 50 trucks.   The DPV has an updated
inventory of roads and pavement condition, it is actually implementing a
maintenance planning program using the HDM model and maintains institutional
accords with DNV for traffic counting and axle loads control, and with
universities for methodological development and training.
7.   The annual road budget is USS22,000,000, funded 50% from national fuel taxes
and 50% from provincial funds (property taxes (30%) and vehicles registration
fees (20%)). The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project estimates to fund
US$3,892,000 annual routine maintenance for the national network in the Province.
These additional works will not affect DPV capability because maintenance is
contracted to the private sector.
8.   An Action Plan (Table 1.8 of the text) has been discussed and agreed in
principle with DNV and DPV of La Pampa.



77
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Staff Motivation
1.   Executive Summary
Over the last 10 years, there has been a deterioration in the relative
quality and morale of DNV staff.   Attrition accompanied by cost-cutting
restrictions on hiring of replacement staff, low and declining purchasing power
of salaries, worsening career prospects, unavailability of elementary resources
needed to operate, uncertainty about the future of the institution, and lack of
job incentives have resulted in a major decline in DNV efficiency. Moreover, the
problem has been compounded even further because of the economic problems in the
country. Decisions have been taken recently to increase staff motivation and to
improve personnel organization. This Annex includes recommendations to continue
improving motivation through: (a) continuing the personnel organization design
and filling vacancies; (b) designing the future personnel organization and the
transition from the actual organization, and developing personnel policies; and
(c) staff training and development of a better working environment in line with
DNVs' new role.
2.   Backoround
During the 80's, DNV has suffered an institutional weakening process.
Between 1982 and 1989 it has been mostly related to budgetary restraint, and
between 1989 and 1991 to a deep Public Sector reform process. As a consequence
human  resources  have  been  weakened.    Continuous  and  progressive  salary
reductions, early retirement policies, better job opportunities outside DNV and
reduced recruitment have been main reasons for personnel shortage. Uncertainty
on DNV's future, high turnover at the top management level (5 General
Administrators in 9 years), the lack of policies' continuity and leadership as
well as lack of technical development and training have been the main reasons for
lack of motivation and a damaging working environment.  In 1989, the National
Government assigned DNV a new planning and administrative role in line with the
Public Sector reform, but changes have been very slow and erratic, and have
contributed to increase official's uncertainty and lack of motivation.
3.   Present Situation
Since 1991, and mainly during 1992, the DNV reform process has begun to be
effectively implemented. DNV organization has been improved, a competent General
Manager has been appointed from DNV's staff, and top management has also been
renewed. A recent salary increase (Table 1.9 of text) has been significant to
prevent human resource weakening process, and to improve motivation. It has been
most effective at management levels.  The actual DNV budget for 1992 has been
increased by about 70% with respect to the previous year, and IBRD and IDB
projects are expected to be finalized soon, bringing great expectation among
Government officials and the private sector.
4.   Recommendations
A main objective is to make officials at all levels aware of DNV's new role
and to have their commitment to the reform program. Clear definition of DNV's
objectives, an action plan for highway sector reform and the transition process
(Annex 1) will help disseminating the objectives of the process and will place
individuals in line with DNV objectives. Other recommendations include: (a) to
continue DNV organization design, to fill positions, to assign functions to
departments and to define clearly their relationships; (b) to design a long term



78
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
personnel organization structure and personnel policies and practices with
respect to recruitment, career development, stimulus, merit pay and performance
control; (c) to design and implement personnel training and development policies;
and (d) to develop an improved working environment.
5.   Personnel improving technical assistance.
Under the project, technical assistance will be provided to DNV through
consultant's expertise to reach short and long term objectives as indicated in
para. 4. An individual consultant will analyze actual personnel organization,
design the long-term organization in line with DNV's new role, and prepare terms
of reference for a broader personnel organization and policy design study, to be
contracted with a consulting firm. Awareness of DNV's new role and officials
commitment is anticipated through interchanging experience with foreign agencies,
and by means of executive and management training. Technical training is DNV's
main concern.  The Technical Assistance and Training programs of the project
include the above mentioned areas for DNV and DPVs.



79
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Capacity to Execute the Project
Executive summary
1.   The following is an analysis of DNV's capacity to manage the total national
road program for the next four years, including its capacity to manage the
proposed road maintenance and rehabilitation project. The capacity analysis is
subdivided into the following activities:   bidding and contracting, detailed
engineering, and field inspection. It is concluded that DNV capacity is enough
to cover the project's demand if it is complemented with DPVs' and consultants'
services. As a maximum, the project cost of consultants' services for detailed
engineering is estimated to be US$3,591,000, and for field inspection
US$11,178,600.
DNV cavacity analysis
2.   Table 1, shows the overall workload demand for DNV during the period 1993
to 1997, which includes works underway (or works previously contracted which are
being re-initiated) and works which are expected to be undertaken with other
sources of financing, in addition to project financed works. It is noticeable
that this demand peaks in 1993 and 1994. During this period DNV will have to
call for bids for civil works (LO), and contract services for final design (LP)
and field inspection (EO). It is assumed that DNV is able to cope with the demand
related to the administrative contracting procedures for works, design and
supervision.   It is further assumed that DNV through regions, districts and
technical departments, is able to make final designs for small civil works such
as bituminous surface treatments, sealing coats or slurry seals. This assumption
is supported by recent DNV performance (58 projects done in 1992).  Detailed
engineering of major maintenance projects such as overlays, rehabilitation or
concrete slabs repairs, are expected to be done by consulting firms, or by accord
with DPVs that have adequate capacity.  A peak of 43 consulting firms to be
contracted for final design in 1993 is anticipated.
3.   DNV field inspection capacity has been analyzed taking into account DNV
workforce available in the districts and regions, in addition to a core of
engineers who are needed for normal functioning of DNV's Regions, in particular
routine road maintenance management. A total of 48 engineers are available for
field inspection. As it is anticipated to have a peak of 84 simultaneous field
inspection supervision in 1994, it is estimated that consultants' services are
needed for a maximum of 36 field inspections.
4.   Local consulting firms' capacity is enough to supply these services for both
final design and field inspection.   DNV has recently opened a register for
consulting firms, and more than 90 firms have presented the required
documentation. Local contractors' capacity for civil works is not assumed to be
a constraint to the project; contractors have been able to cope with work demand
in the past, even for bigger road programs.
DNV caoacitv as related to the Proiect
5.   Detailed engineering needs for the project (Table 4): final designs for
small works of the paved network, or final design and specifications for unpaved
roads or maintenance, are assumed to be done by DNV or DPVs. It is estimated



80
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
that it will be necessary to contract consulting firms, or to accord with DPVs,
for final design of 43 links in 1993 and 27 in 1994, for a total amount of
US$3,591,000.
6.   Field inspection needs (Tables 2 and 3):  field inspection for works or
maintenance on unpaved network is assumed to be done by DNV or DPVs.  Small
works' field inspection on the paved network is assumed to be done by DNV and
DPVc.    Field  inspection  for  works  such  as  asphalt  concrete  overlays,
rehabilitation or concrete slabs repairs are to be contracted to consulting firms
or  DPVs  that  fulfill  technical  and  experience  required  skills.    Where
geographically possible, it was assumed that supervision consulting firms would
be contracted to manage packages of several contracts, with contract specific
teams assigned to each separate contract in any package.  Table 2 shows the
eotimated fixed management costs of the consulting firms, and Table 3 the
variable inspection costs. The total amount for IBRD funded field inspection
contracts is estimated to be US$11,178,600.



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Capacity
1993                   1994                   11S997
LB1  I   La    I   LO    I   La    I   to    I   LO    I   to    I   L0    I   LO  LB  LOI 5I LB I L    L      o     i    L
A.   ,.        Do   pi t               q            24     4    0    to   II    0       0 a    0     a           *    *      *     0
LO   LO9   LO   to90   LO   LP 1   P 1   LP9   LP9  LO~ I LO         195UIU11*                      U0        IU
B.     43     9     a    24     a     a     is                    oa    L  11L a        I   aI       I L      PI   P    L
to     tot(Igo9 119 111(111(         I( go  519         to   to9  51  59IP II         a  I to 5(9 1(1I    519  I go  I
C.       Si     24   it     42    S    14     Id    0     Sf    IS     0    a     0     0      0     a     0     0     0     a
D.     *.       a    a    is  Rs    UL X n          1      1    am  I       2.5i  22    2     is    5    1a      p    , 
IS(b    14   li   liI tT  Z|K    t 54   Si   Ii   Ii   54    ti 14   B44   Ii   54   II   T4 *4 Sit   Ii   54   te   544(
D.200               0           a    0 I    4  *2    A I  n1    21         0                                                                          co 0  t    l  0  *    *  X  X
0  0    0  276603"  P2400  40gmw  Due"0 42000  wo0w2000 5     5                             0    5on          0 a     CIrl~ 271100  I-
Legend:
A.  No. of works contracts for which bids would be invited in any quarter.
B.  No. of design contracts to be let in any quarter.
C.  No. of design contracts underway in any quarter.
D.  No. of works contracts underway in any quarter.
EQMESSUP:  No. of supervision team-months needed - total.
EQMESDNV:  No. of supervision team-months provided by DNV staff.
EQMESCON:  No. of supervision team-months which would need to be contracted.



ARGENTINA
ROAD HAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Capacity for the Proposed Project (Field Inspection - Fixed Costs in USS)
1993                1994                 1995                1996                  1997
A.               e *    *              t  41  1)  46n n                  t  .4    a    I    S    a    a .
(Sint1    141   644  644   S44  II4  1N   1 14           1"  Il Itt  UI       6n .  14.  14  l4    'a   .4    .
Legend:
A. No. of project works contracts underway in any quarter
ao
EQMESSUP: No. of supervision team-months needed - total.
EQMESDNV: No. of supervision team-months provided by DNV staff.
EQHESCON: No. of supervision team-months which would need to be contracted.
CFSUPCON: Fixed costs of contracted supervision consulting firms.
In U,



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION  SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Capacity  for  the  Proposed  Project  (Field Inspection - Variable Costi in US$)
1993                         1994                       1995                       1996                         1997
*~iiaa tI                        I      a    a| t    Va      i.e    il     I'1     N     I".    88    It .,           Is              a B    S      0      S      a       a
its                                                                ast it  as     at     St     to    it    as    it    1t          S      It      to    is      St     It
|KIa    iSfA              I      S      *      t      NX    H@    1I    i1    IJ    .t           11 '}   *         *      *      *      *           a *       *           *
O        ia.ff4          S      S      a'    n              it11 iIsit                                         I       I                    I S   6  S    I
1:KA a..|                                        011 a  4 l   *                              .1          *     *       *      s      *      *       l      s      %
i.aaab    iat x~g        Ilt    Ill    I.,     I     B.,     a.    It    a,         I     a.     as   . am   a.         *     a,    so      at     at      so ,       
1~tmus    3.26411  3      IS                  I'm    Ina    ta    ms                a     of    is       a    .a        a      a      a      a                      
.  1SUP atas                    t                               C             
*tt.i      i.ll           I      S      S       I     SI      S S          IS                                                                       a t  3  5  6  S  S  I  S  B  a   *
- talt    MIWIS  D        a                    a                                                                                                    a a  s * S  S  a  a    a    6      a 
ciat    WM.Sa             a      a      a       a  *          g      is *           a ,           t      s      0      a              a      *      a        
lo  9    w.a c            aI                           S      a     S       Ii    S1      it    31       S                                                          
gem      *6,6M            a      a      *                                   . a  a  S  . as  I          as      a      a       a .    *  *                   *  *
Swth.  au..aM.            a      a      a                     S     S       aI    s6      Ian"                  a      a      a      a               
t        18.1             a      a      a  ,       ,saaL   a...                 a .  m a  a.  l    a.    a      a                                                        a  it.    Iaaaaa
carg:,    a.i,,             upa                               a   sa   p 1     ata"   Ulm.   me"                                             S      a      a      6      ait.       iaa
tosta     ..&~i   F       a                 a.esm.    aa.uaa   aa.   .,.    s.    am                     a      a      a      a      a       a      a      a      a      aa,    a..
C8asmiWa                         a      a  Wool.541S.  ias  ZISaa""dua*aaaoaaaa   laldal  SigMa   $aaa             a          a      a          a          a             a
MI=  luame                                                                                          lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  amWs, atasam
Le Send:
For A (total), B (surface treatment, slurry seals or seal coats), C (contrete slab repairs). 0 (overlays)
and E (reconstruction):
NUMTRSUP    No. of  works  contracts  to be  supervised. 
|saj  *@a                  *|                              *                            |  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w u.>
EQHESSUP:   No.  of  supervision  team-months  needed -total.
EQMESDNV:   No.  of  supervision  team-months  provided by DNV staff.
EQMESCON:   No.  of supervision  team-months  which would need  to be contracted.
F  related variable  inspection costs by  type of works as  in B,  C,  D and E.



84
ANNEX 5
Table 4
ARGFNTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Final Desian by Consultants ln U8SI
199         199          TOTAL
Final Designs                    43           27          70
Consultants' Services       2910313       680563     3590876



85                                ANNZX 6
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of a Manual of Environmental Analysis of Road Proiects
PART I
Section 1. Introduction
This section will give a brief introduction to the process of
environmental assessment -- what it is, why it is done, how the DNV will
include the analysis of environmental impacts and proposed mitigative measures
into its procedures (e.g. the use of Environmental Data Sheets), and how the
Manual is organized to help with this process. Length: about 5 pages.
Section 2. Basic Concepts of Environmental Impact Assessment
This section will present some of the basic concepts of environmental
assessment as it relates to road projects. This includes a discussion of
direct effects of new construction and rehabilitation as well as the indirect
or induced impacts created by road works. In order to evaluate impacts it is
necessary to look at the present situation and also to anticipate potential
future impacts caused by the completion of the road project. Length: 5 - 7
pages.
Section 3: Defining the Extent of Impact of a Road Project
This section will consider the question of how one draws the boundary of
analysis, in both space and time, of a proposed project. It is known that
roads, especially new roads, can have far-ranging impacts on the local
economy, and, as a result, directly and indirectly on the impact. This
section also develops a ,CV of types of projects and their potential impacts.
Length: 5 pages.
Section 4: Identification of Potential Impacts for Various Types of Roads
Projects
This is an important section that will present information on the
various types of activities that DNV is engaged in (e.g. repaving,
rehabilitation, new construction, upgrading, others.) and for each will
present the main potential environmental impacts. This Section will serve as
a checklist for road engineers and task managers: a place where they can find
guidance on the types of impacts that are likely and information on where they
should look in the Manual to find more information on these topics. Length:
10 - 15 pages.
(NOTE: During actual preparation of the Manual, it may be desirable to
combine Sections 3 and 4).



86                              ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
PAR T II
This part will examine potential environmental impacts in short,
individual sections that identify the impact, describe how it is measured or
evaluated, discuss alternative or mitigative steps, and illustrate solutions.
The final list of environmental impacts to be included, and at what
level of coverage, will depend on what issues are identified in Part I am
being most important. Given the large size of Argentina and the great variety
of climates and topography, a fairly broad range of environmental issues will
have to be considered. Each section should be fairly short, not more than 5
to 10 pages and some considerably less. The Technical Data Sheets in the
recently prepared World Bank manual of Environmental Evaluation and Road
Infrastructur- (draft, June 1992) are good models: each topic follows a
common format -- basis notions/concepts; impacts, protective steps; and
specifications. This approach can be used for physical impacts (e.g. water
runoff), system impacts (e.g. natural environment) and social impacts (e.g.
culture and society).
In addition to the thematic section, Part II will also include "Tool
Sheets' that present basic information on different analytical techniques and
tools, with the appropriate cautions about which approaches are likely to be
moat useful in Argentina. Again, the World Bank manual just referred to
contains "Tool Sheets" on satellite remote sensing; maps and aerial
photography; computers and the environment; impact identification; and
comparison of alternatives.
Sources: A number of existing documents will be relied upon to serve as the
basis upon which the Vialidad Manual will be created. These background
documents include the World Bank manual Environmental Evaluation and Road
Infrastructure: Volume I -- Practical Guide, and Volume II -- Technical Data
Shoots, as well as the Bank's Environmental Assessment Source Book. In
addition, a Spanish manual, Guia metodolocica vara la elaboracion de estudios
de imvacto ambiental. Carreteras v Ferrocarriles, will also be very useful in
preparing the Vialidad Manual.



87
ANNEX 7
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Funding of the Road Sub-Sector
1.        As part of the major reorganization which is taken place in the road
sub-sector, fundamental changes have occurred in the procedures followed to fund
DNV and DPVs. Before the Menem Administration, road user taxes were earmarked as
follows: (a) for DNV, 10% of fuel taxes, 57% of taxes on tires, 50% of taxes on
lubricants and 100% of taxes on vehicle registration fees and sales; and (b) for
the DPVs these values were 9%, 29%, 27% and 0%, respectively. Table 1 shows the
complete distribution of road user charges among the different recipients as it
was applicable before 1990.
2.        Since 1990, all earmarked funds assigned to DNV have been gradually
eliminated. With the approval of the Emergency Law, taxes on tires and lubricants
were funneled directly to the National Treasury, and in 1990 the Government
suspended the earmarking to DNV of taxes on vehicle registration fees and sales.
In August 1, 1991, Law 23,966 was passed ruling the distribution of fuel and
natural gas taxes.  Table 2 summarizes the content of this law, and it shows
that: (a) the recipients of these taxes are the National Housing Fund (40%),
National Treasury (47%) and Provinces (13%), (b) these percentages change along
the years with a gradual increase in the share of the Provinces, that reaches 29%
in 1996, at the expense of a major reduction in the Treasury's share, and (c) 60%
of the funds assigned to each Province should be allocated to the respective DPV.
In summary, while there is not any more funds earmarked to DNV and consequently
all its funding comes from the National Treasury, the share of the DPVs in the
fuel taxes which before was 9%, dropped slightly to 7.8% until June 30, 1992,
increased to 10.2% until December 1992, and will continue growing until reaching
a value of 17.4% at the beginning of 1996. The tax component in the price of some
fuels is very high, representing 52% of the price of unleaded gasoline and 18%
of diesel oil price.
3.        Table 3 shows the percentual sources of income for DNV in years 1990,
1991 and 1992. Actual values are indicated for 1990, and budgetary allocations
for the other two years. While in 1990, taxes represented 70% of the DNV income
and only 1.9% was provided by the National Treasury, the respective values were
7.7% and 55.2% in 1991, and 0.0% and 96.5% in 1992. It is remarkable the drastic
change that happened during the last two years. From the point of view of general
planning in the country, this change is beneficial, because this way the scarce
resources are not a priori tied with a certain kind of investment, and thus the
intersectorial allocation of resources can now be based on technical-economic
grounds rather than on somehow arbitrary earmarking. However, an exception could
be justified for road maintenance, an expenditure that has to be incurred in any
case to avoid major problems in the future, and that normally is postponed when
there are budget limitations. During appraisal,the possibility of earmarking
funds with the sole purpose of being use for road maintenance, was analyzed and
the Government is considering it. An absolute minimum for this earmarking would
be to provide enough funds for routine maintenance, which is estimated to amount
about US$40.0 million per year. This would represent about 25% of the DNV tax
allocation for DNV in 1990.



AD KAINTEICl AU) E HITAU1 SECTOR PlOJECT
Road tflatenance Before 1990
.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1001
1                       S~~~~       ~       ~~AX 011  TAX ON                  TAXI ON
TAX   T_.S                                                 LBRICANTS                 VEICLES
70.71                     29.31
14 .I1                                                                    29.631
22.381                            ~~~~55.*61                     150.321
22.5-t 55.1t  .   27.102
L&V    ~ ~ ~~AWDECURE
r   +    t                 l          i     ~~~~~~~         ~~~15274  i  505      l
| TSMORY                    sNoD..                                  
LU05_~~~~~~~~~~~~0
10.251    i58.911                                                                                   oo
10.371         19.26j
10. 1U
NATIONAL
5.56?                           29.031
[I S           [ 9TREASYDN35.*11                           .
RA LVAYS            IA                                 D.NV
R3549~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 



ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Distribution of Fuel and Natural Gas Taxes
Distribution Period
09-01-91   07-01-92   01-01-93   07-01-93    after
06-30-92   12-31-92   06-30-93   12-31-95  01-01-96
FOUAVtI                        40.01       41.01      42.0       42.02       42.01
(National Housing Fund)
National Treasury                    47.0S      42.02       38.01      34.02       29.0Z
Fuel and Natural  -
G-as Taxess
Provinces                            13.01      17.0?       20.0      24.02       29.0I
100.0S     100.0?      100.0?     100.0?      100.0?       0
Note: The amount for provinces
is subdivided as follows:
>DPV    (60?)            7.8Z      10.2?       12.02       14.4?      17.4?
>FPIP   (301)            3.92       5.12        6.0?        7.2?       8.71
>FEDEI  (10?)            1.3Z       1.7?        2.0?        2.4S       2.9?
Provinces              13.0?      17.0?       20.0?       24.0?      29.0?
DPV:    Provincial Highway Directorate
FPIP:   Provincial Fund of Electricity and Public Infrastructure
FEDEI:  Special Fund for Electric Development
m >4



90
ANNEX 7
Table 3
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RERABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Sources of DNV Income
(in percentages)
ITE                              1990            1991           1992
2              1               2
A - RECURRENT RESOURCES                              72.0            8.1             0.7
a. Taxes                                         70.2            7.7            0.0
Gasoline                                     10.0            1.2            0.0
Diesel                                        6.0            1.1
Kerosene                                      0.2            0.0
Oil                                           0.0            0.0
Fuel Oil                                      0.2            0.1
Lubricants                                    1.1            0.0
Tire*                                         0.2            0.0
Solvent                                       0.0            0.0
Tirec lv 15274                                1.0            0.0
Freoday Nat.Fund                             49.3            4.5
Laws 5574/58 & 16657                          2.1            0.3
b.   Won Taxes                                     1.8            0.4             0.7
Valuations, tariffs                           0.1            0.0
Items sold                                    0.1            0.0
Income from sarv.                             0.0            0.0
iac                                           0.0            0.0
Recovery of exp.                              1.6            0.4
Miscellaneous                                 0.0            0.0
3. CAPITAL RESOURCZS                                  0.0            0.0             0.7
a.  Sales of Assets                               0.0            0.0             0.0
Real Estate                                   0.0            0.0
Machine & Equipmrnt                                          0.0
C. EXTERNAL FINANCIIU                                27.9            91.9           98.6
a. Credit                                         0.8            3.8             2.0
Financing Instit.                             0.8            1.3            0.7
Suppliers                                     0.0            2.5             1.3
b. Carry over                                     2.2            0.0             0.0
c. Goverment Contrib                             24.9           88.1            96.5
National Treasury                             1.9           55.2            96.5
Lav 23697 Acct 534                           23.0            0.0
Infrastructure Fund                           0.0           32.9
TOTAL (A + I + C)                                    100.0          100.0          100.0



91
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 20
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Programs (TATP)
The TATP would support DNV's new role of providing leadership and assistance
to the DPVs in their joint efforts to improve efficiency of the road subsector.
Its objectives include: (i) optimization of road expenditures in infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation under budgetary restrictions; (ii) increasing
efficiency in the management of all types of road related work; (iii) the
imposition of road planning as the primary tool for budget definition and
strategic management of the entire Argentinean road network; (iv) institutional
realignment of the national and provincial roles in the subsector, including
definition of corresponding DNV organization and staffing; (v) DNV staff
motivation through introduction of appropriate personnel policies; (vi)
strengthening management in support of privatization and decentralization; and
(vii) training related to all the above.
The TATP activities are described below, grouped by the directorate or
office who would be managing the services, and the Implementation Action Plan is
shown in Table 1.
1.   ASSISTANCE TO DNV'S GENERAL ADMINISTRATORS OFFICE
(a) Reformulation of the National Road Network
Reformulation of the National Road Network and of the process for delegation
or transfer of assignments or jurisdiction to the provincial level.
(i)       Backaround
The existing National Road Network, though appropriate at the time of its
initial conception, should be reformulated in line with current national
objectives of land development and international integration. The anticipated
increase in trade and commerce due to international agreements like MERCOSUR and
others, and major policy reforms in the country, support the needs for an in-
depth review of the transport networks. Therefore, a new policy framework is
being developed by the National Government with the understanding that parameters
such as geopolitical, economic, touristic and spatial location should be
considered by DNV in the reformulation of the road network system.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objectives of the study are:   (a) to implement the National
Government's specific guidelines on the subject; (b) to plan the new national
road network; (c) to determine priorities among existing routes and principal
corridors; (d) to determine the need of new national and international road
construction; and (e) to coordinate and agree on road links to be transferred to
or from the Provinces.
(iii)     Scope
The study will consist of: (a) gathering of basic information; (b) analysis
and conclusions related to international commercial agreements like MERCOSUR and



92
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 20
others, as approved by the National Government; (c) determination of current and
forecasted traffic volumes; and (d) definition of the new road network system in
accordance with National Government guidelines and plans of the Provinces.
(iv)      Cost
Consultancy expenses
A. Local firm:
Project Director         15 months x 4.800/month            $  72,000
Senior Professional      60 months x 2.900/month            $ 174,000
Junior Professional       54 months x 2.200/month           $  74,000
Social expenses      $ 179,200
Technical and Administrative Personnel                      S 115.506
Sub-Total personnel            $ 614,200
General expenses, benefit         S 196,540
Total                      $ 810,740
Reimbursable Expenses:
Air tickets                     90 x 400/d                 $  36,000
Transportation        70.000 km x 0.6 $/km                 $  42,000
Per diem                  450 days x 90 $/d                S  40,500
Total (A)                  $ 929,244
B. Foreign Firm:
Senior professionals  12 months x 15.000/month             $ 180,000
Junior professionals  15 months x  9.000/month             $ 135,000
General expenses 20%       S  63,000
Benefit 10%       S  37,800
Sub-Total                     $ 415,800
Expenses:
Trips to Argentina:  10 trips x S 1.800                    $   18,000
Per diem:  27 months x S 3.500                             S   94,500
Total (B)                  $  528,300
Total Costs Summary:
A. Local Firm                                              S  929,244
B. Foreign Firm                                            S  528.300
Total                          $1,457,724
(b)  Monitoring of Toll Road Concessions
(i)       Backaround
Some 9,000 km of the national highway network are being maintained through
toll collecting concessions, where private groups are responsible to manage and
maintain the roads in such a way to assure a certain Index of Pavement Condition.
Consequently, it is essential to have a good monitoring system to support related
decisions.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objective is to make available information, which is currently non-
existant or incomplete, and to compile and process this information so that it
can be used in decision-making circumstances.



93
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 20
(iii)     Scooe
The project will include: (a) gathering, compilation and processing of
available information from DNV's technical reports and from consultants' auditing
reports, in each of the concessioner toll roads during 4 years; and (b)
recommendations to DNV through putting into practice periodically the method
developed under technical assistance project in section l(c) of this Annex.
(iv)      Costs
Professionals             2 x  48 months x $ 5.000    $  480,000
Travel expenses           1 x 2 x 48 x 300              $   28,800
Per diem  3 days x 2 x 48 x 200 $/day                   S   57.600
Total       $  566,400
(c) Evaluation of Toll Roads Concessions
(i)       Backaround
Road maintenance funding by toll collection is a new experience in the
country. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the current situation with
respect to toll rates, kind of service provided to the users, the profitability
of the concession and the social return.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objectives of the study are:   (a) analysis of toll rates as
compared with marginal user benefits related to improved road condition; and (b)
internal rate of return analysis of investments, maintenance costs, toll
collection and operating costs, and a sensitivity analysis related to variables
that can affect profitability.
(iii)     Scove
Taking into consideration the 12-year concession contract terms, and
considering the possibilities of potential modifications during the concession
period, the development of a model is required which could be used at
negotiations between DNV and concessionaires. The calibration of the model would
be done through implementation with one of the existing concessions.
(iv)      Costs
Consultants             1 x   8 months x $ 5.000        $  40,000
Support staff           1 x  12 months x $ 1.500        $  18,000
Computer, printer and software                          S  30,000
Total       $  88,000
(d) Proiect monitoring
(i)       Backaround
Past experience shows monitoring and follow-up is required if effective
control and coordination, needed to assure efficiency, is to be achieved. For
that purpose, a Project Coordinating Unit has been created with a technical staff
to take care of monitoring and follow-up of the bidding process, project
execution, technical assistance, programming and reprogramming, loan accounting,



94
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 20
progress on highway sector reforms, coordination with the Secretary of Public
Works and Communication and with other entities providing support to the Unit.
(ii)      Obiectives
The objective is to establish a unit to centralize information related to
the loan which may be useful for DNV management and to the Bank supervision
missions, in order to control project management, execution and coordination, so
as to achieve agreed targets in the implementation of the project.
(iii)     ScoDe
The Project Coordinating Unit's scope of works is to coordinate project
execution in agreement to policies and rules established in the loan and DNV and
SOPC guidelines.
(iv)      Costs
Project formulation: 3 professionals x 8 months x $ 3.000    $   72,000
Professionals: 10 professionals x 48 months x $3.000/m           $1,440,000
Air tickets: 1 ticket/m x 3 x 48 300/t                           $   43,200
Per diem :   3 x 1 trip/m x 5 days/tx 48/mo x 180                $  129,600
Short term consultants: 48 x 3.000/m                             S  144.000
Total                        $1,856,800
(e) Other Transport Sector Studies
(i)       Background
In a project of this nature, where pilot measures and new institutions are
being tested and proven, experience has shown that frequently additional,
initially unidentified studies are required. Unless a provision is contained in
the project for financing such studies unnecessary delays occur.
(ii)      Obiectives
Provide for including additional transport sector studies which may be
identified by mutual agreement of the Government and the Bank, as being needed
to achieve project objectives.
(iii)     Scone
The scope of these project related studies, which might focus on either
technical or instutional matters, would be decided based on identified needs
during the course of project implementation. Such studies might relate, for
example, to new developments in pavement maintenance technology such, as are
being explored by the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP) in the USA,
bridge maintenance and repair instrumentation needs evolving from the Bridge
Management Systems Study or to the results of other pilot experiences in
provinces which are not specifically proposed for monitoring by the Bank under
the project.
(iv)      Costs
Unallocated                                $ 1,200,000



95
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 20
2.   ASSISTANCE TO THE DIRZCTORATE OF PLANNING, REsEARCH AND CONTROL
(a)  Methodology for Environmental Impact
(i)       Backaround
The Argentine society in becoming aware of the importance of analyzing,
evaluating, preventing or mitigating environmental impacts that could be produced
by natural or artificial causes. This is a major worldwide concern and, in the
road transport sector, includes identification of appropriate measures and
remedies to minimize the possible negative environmental impacts of road
construction, maintenance and operation.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objective is to prepare a Manual on how to identify and evaluate
the most important environmental impacts of road construction, rehabilitation or
maintenance. The recently-created environmental unit in DNV will be in charge
of its implementation and dissemination. Road engineers and other professionals
of DNV and DPVs will be trained in the application of the Manual and the
utilization of related technologies.
(iii)     Scooe
The study should:   (a) identify the environmental impact indicators for
reconstruction or construction of road works; (b) identify evaluation criteria
and methods; (c)  describe corrective and preventive measures; (d) take into
consideration regional characteristics; and (e) demonstrate the application of
the proposed methods through an example of its use in each successive steps of
a road project.   Training will consist of extension courses on methods and
criteria, and DNV will give training through implementation seminars to regions
and DPVs, to achieve professionalism in analyzing environmental impact issues in
road works.
(iv)      Costs
Senior professional    1 x   5 months x $ 5.000         $  25,000
Junior professional    1 x   6 months x S 2.000         $  12,000
Travel and seminar expenses                             $  10,000
Computer, printer and software                          S  10.000
Total       $  57,000
Training
Senior professional   1 x  3 months x $ 5.000           $  15,000
Students              24 x  2 months x $ 1.000          $  48,000
Teachers                                                S  12.000
Total       S 132,000
(b) Updatino of Road User Charge Studies
(i)       Background
The development of the road sector in the country was financed by the
creation of specific taxes on fuels, lubricants and tires to finance construction
and maintenance works. Along the years, these funds have been diverted to other
sectors, and currently the road sector is funded by the Treasury or, more
recently, by toll collection. Consequently, this has profoundly affected the
structure of the road user charges system.



96
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 20
(ii)      Obiectives
The study will focus on determining the present structure of user charges
and on making a comparison with the previous structure.
(iii)     Scone
The study will review and summarize previous studies on this subject,
analyze, in general, the new user charges, identify charges to the different road
users, in the different road networks: national, provincial and municipal (in
each case separating roads operated and/or maintained under concession from those
operated and maintained without any concessions).
(iv)      Costs
Estimated cost of the study is as follows:
(i)  Consultancy expenses
Personnel:
Senior consultant       1 x  12 months x $ 5.000       $  60,000
Senior consultant       1 x   6 months x $ 5.000       $  30,000
Junior consultant       1 x  12 months x $ 3.000       $  36,000
Junior consultant       1 x   6 months x $ 3.000       $  18,000
Other expenses                                         $  31,600
Total consultancy  $ 165,600
(ii) DNV Expenses:                                          S  20.000
Total       $ 185,600
(c)  Highwav Information Svstem
(i)       Background
The new role of DNV and its current, and rather outdated, degree of computer
development set new demands on its information system.   It is, therefore,
necessary to improve and develop adequate highway network information systems
linking DNV departments internally and with the DPVs and other outside users.
Training is also required to facilitate the introduction of modern information
systems.
(ii)      Obiectives
Main objectives are improving computer services and data availability
through rational information development plans and strategies, focusing on
integrated networks, easiness of applications, data reliability and protection,
transfer of capability, flexible expansion and adequate support, as well as
introducing to and training personnel in computer systems applications.
(iii)     Scove
Four working units which correspond with existing four management
departments in DNV, and all the DPVs are expected to be covered by this technical
assistance component and the equipment to be purchased as part of it. A four
phase project is anticipated to cover modular design per working unit (Phase 1),
network integration (Phase 2), DPVs integration to the network (Phase 3) and
training (Phase 4).



97
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 20
(iv)      Costs
Project coordinators              29 months x $ 8.000        $  232,000
Senior professionals             72 months x $ 5.000         $  360,000
Technicians                       62 months x $ 2.500        $  155,000
Support staff                     40 months x $ 1.500        $   73,500
Overhead                                                     $  180,800
DNV expenses                                                 $   38,500
Equipment purchase  99 computer working stations             $  405,900
Software                                                     S   85.000
Total                             $1, 530,700
(d) Highway Condition Survey
(i)       Background
Today, DNV's equipment to determine pavement conditions consists of five
deflectometers, three roughness measurement and two skid resistance measurement
devices. The latter's carrying elements are in good condition but the sensor and
interfaces are of obsolete technology and short of maintenance.
Presently, there is no systematic data registered on successive maintenance
actions carried out on the routes of the National Road Network, and in some
cases, there is a complete lack of information since the initial construction
date.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objectives of the technical assistance are the following:   (a)
to have the necessary elements to carry out effective control of the road
condition in accordance with a planned program; (b) to compile the structural
composition and history of the pavement of all the roads of the national road
network, since their original construction, including the maintenance works
performed afterwards; and (c) to design a methodology to keep such information
updated, as required for future planning of road maintenance works.
(iii)     Scooe
The technical assistance would aim to:  (a)  modify the deflectometers'
technology in such a way to make possible the computerization of output data,
with adequate training to its operating personnel;   (b)   incorporate two
deflectometers, two roughness measurement devices (type APL), one skid resistance
measurement devices (type SCRIM), one set video-logging equipment and eight
electronic odometers, as well as train personnel for its use;  (c)  compile the
existing information at DNV with regard to the structural conditions of pavements
of the National Road Network;   (d) carry out or arrange to make "in situ'
investigations for those pavements without existing information; (e) design and
implement a system to file and classify information that facilitates decision on
road planning and maintenance, compatible to the implemented data base at DNV;
(f) train responsible personnel on the operation and maintenance of the system;
and (g) coordinate with the DPVs on the adoption of similar models, compatible
with the implemented one.



98
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 20
(iv)      Costs
(i)  DNV expenses                                               $   76,000
(ii) Consulting expenses
Personnel
1 Senior consultant    12 months x $ 5.000           $   60,000
2 Technicians            9 months x $ 2.000          $   36,000
1 Support staff         12 months x $ 1.500          $   18,000
Overhead                                                   $   19,000
Subtotal     $  133,000
(iii)Equipment
Repair 5 deflectometers                              $  600,000
Deflectometers            2 x  $  400.000            $  800,000
Roughmeters               2 x  $  140.000            $  280,000
Skid resistance           1 x  $  385.000            $  385,000
Video-logging             1 x  5  150.000            $  150,000
Odometers                 8 x  $       500           $    4,000
Lap-top                   6 x  S    4.000            $   24,000
2 386 computers w/cartridge and printer              $   12,000
Subtotal      S 2.255,000
Grand Total   $ 2,464,000
(-)  Highway Planning System
(i)       Backaround
The ongoing organizational reform program has assigned DNV a major planning
and administration role. At present, the highway planning process presents a
series of deficiencies due as much to technical problems as to budgetary
constraints. Notwithstanding the availability, to a greater or lesser extent,
of data on road inventory, traffic, and pavement conditions, the inclusion of
road-works in annual plans do not always follows a well-founded priority order
because DNV lacks a systematic methodology that takes into consideration
geopolitical, social and development factors besides the technical and economic
aspects. The program of works on the National Road Network should be viewed in
a more general scope of planning for the transport sector.
(ii)      Obiectives
Main objectives are: (a) to build a data base that includes all the road
network needs classified in separate groups: studies, road improvements, road
maintenance, new works, bridges, access to large cities, roads of low traffic
volumes, roads in frontier areas, road requirement due to Government decisions
or international agreements, etc; (b) to define a criteria to support decisions
on project investment priorities; (c) to make pluriannual programs; (d) to define
the method for monitoring and adjusting programs; and (e) to include
recommendations resulting from the environmental studies in the road works
program.



99
ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 20
( iii )   Scope
The scope of consulting services will cover: (a) national road transport
and infrastructure planning; (b) regional planning; (c) methodology for
identifying road needs; (d) methodology to prioritized road investment projects
(new road works, road maintenance, new bridges, bridge maintenance, low volume
roads, road safety works, access roads to urban areas, etc.); (e) methodology for
pluriannual road planning; (f) preparation of a planning manual; and (g) develop
or purchase specific road planning software.
(iv)      Costs
Project coordinator    1 x  18 months x $ 5.000          $  90,000
Professionals           1 x  15 months x $ 3.000         $  45,000
Technician              1 x  12 months x $ 3.000         $  18,000
Support staff           1 x  18 months x $ 1.500         $  27,000
Other expenses                                           $  18,000
DNV expenses                                             S  40.000
Total                                    $ 238,000
(f) Traffic Information System
(i)       Background
The growing demand for traffic statistics, as well as the need of
information about service levels for each road section and/or intersection,
necessitates the development of a system that provides immediate access to such
data with a high degree of reliability. New technology for gathering traffic
data as well as data processing has to be introduced to provide this traffic
information, using a minimum of staff resources.
(ii)      Obiectives
This study would have the following objectives: (a) to determine a traffic
monitoring method that is reliable and rapidly disseminated; and (b) to define
methods to establish the service levels at road intersections, interchanges and
of sections of the national road network.
(iii)     Scooe
Basically, the studies should cover:
a) Traffic monitoring system:
(i) analysis and methodology for data collection, definition and
application of criteria for establishing discrete road sections; (ii)
analysis of the method   of conducting volume and classification
traffic counts, and definition of the sample sizes for different
traffic parameters and accuracy levels;  (iii) definition of monthly,
daily and hourly traffic variation patterns for the National Road
Network;  (iv)   analysis of the method of calculating AADT;   (v)
grouping of the National Road Network links, based on traffic
composition   and   seasonal   variation   patterns   to   facilitate
determination of AADT; (vi) analysis and selection of equipment best
suited for data collection, including the number to be purchased;
(vii) estimation of passenger/km transported considering occupancy
factors, type of vehicle by region and routes;   (viii) procurement
software for each of the processing steps, compatible to the existing
systems; (ix) implementation of the entire system; (x) information



100
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 20
on different methods applied in other countries; and (xi) equipment
to be purchased which will be consistent with recommendations in (vi)
but will initially be sufficient to establish 38 continuous counting
stations.   Modern traffic analyzers,  solid state memory counting
equipment and dynamic traffic road sensors are anticipated.
b)   Evaluation of traffic serviceability levels:
(i) formulate an specific methodology to determine service levels for
sections of the National Road Network; (ii) determine service levels
for sections of the intercity National Road Network, rural and semi-
urban intersections,  accesses to major cities,  etc.; and   (iii)
procurement of software for annual determination of serviceability
levels.
Both in a) and b) above, appropriate manuals will be prepared containing
methodology as well as operative procedures.
(iv)      Costs
Consulting expenses
1 Senior professional        16 months x $ 5.000          $   80,000
1 Junior professional        16 months x $ 3.000          $   46,000
2 Technicians           2 x  10 months x $ 2.500           $   50,000
1 Support staff              16 months x $ 1.500          $   24,000
Other expenses                                             $   23,000
Subtotal    $  225,000
Per diem, transportation, etc.                             $   40,000
Total Studies    $  265,000
Equipment                                                  S  400,000
Total                  $  665,000
(g)  Monitoring and Updatina Maintenance and Rehabilitation Planning
(i)       Background
The HDM III model has been used as a tool to evaluate road pavement
strategies, and has been extensively used for the work program included in the
proposed project. The calibration of the model was done by ISIT.
(ii)      Obiectives
The objectives are to update maintenance policy planning on a continuous
basis and perform "ex-post" evaluations in order to determine the real economic
returns on investments included in the IBRD project. Tasks to be performed are:
(a)   updating the calibration and adjusting maintenance policies;  and  (b)
monitoring the road works included in the IBRD project.
(iii)     ScoDe
The study should include the following tasks:  (a)  monitoring by DNV of
road works on links included in the IBRD project, using HDM III model; (b) in
agreement with DNV, further research on the use of HDM III and related models;
(c) model calibration and adjustment; and (d) training of personnel responsible
to operate the HDM model.



101
ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 20
5.   Costs
(a)  Consultancy expenses
Senior professional    1 x   8 months x $ 5.000        $  40,000
Technician              1 x   8 months x $ 2.500       $  20,000
Support staff           1 x   8 months x $ 1.500       $  12,000
Other expenses                                         $  24,000
Subtotal       $  96,000
(b)  DNV Expenses:              12 months                   S  54,000
Total          $ 150,000
(h) Vehicle Weight Control and Road Safety
(i)       Background
The problem of road safety and vehicle weight control is of increasing
priority due to the high indices of traffic accidents and the deterioration of
road infrastructure. Existing systems of weight control have gradually fallen
into disuse for several reasons: financial constraints, lack of supervision or
control  work,  operative  difficulties  in  executing  the  load  control,
decentralization of control to provinces and institutional problems related to
jurisdictional overlapping. Even though there is a clear government awareness
of the relevance of the matter, there is no reliable data system to support a
diagnosis. This leads to the non existence of any black spot improvement program
and traffic accidents prevention program.
(ii)      Obiectives
The major objectives are: (a) preparation of a comprehensive regulatory
framework to be applied by all Argentine jurisdictions; (b) definition of the
authorities responsible for enforcing the regulations; (c) development of the
methodology for a control system, with geographical definitions and designation
of the number of permanent and temporary control stations; and (d) establishment
of a reliable information system with the purpose of being able to provide
accurate data to support future planning.
(iii)     Scove
The study will include the following tasks: (a) design a vehicle load
control system defining the number of permanent scales and platforms, and
portable scales, to collect statistical data to build a data bank; (b) design the
corresponding data processing system; (c) collect and process information on
tons/kilometers transported through the road network, intensity and frequency of
the type of cargo transported by the vehicles, classification and characteristics
of the actual vehicles fleet, and preparation of an origin-destination matrix for
the most relevant commodities; (d) standardize vehicle load control regulations
and procedures in all road networks; (e) conduct a legislative review on traffic
weight and accident control, and recommend adjustment of legislation; (f) upgrade
accident data bank including all related parameters, and develop a long-range
program for implementation over a five-year period to improve traffic safety; and
(g) select representative samples of road network black spots to put in practice
recommendations from the road safety study, including evaluation of results.



102
ANNEX 8
Page 12 of 20
(iv)      Co
(i) Consultancy expenses
Personnel:
Project coordinator    1 x  14 months x $ 8.000           $ 112,000
Senior consultant       1 x  13 months x $ 5.000          $  65,000
Junior consultants      2 x  13 months x $ 3.000          $  78,000
Technician              2 x   5 months x $ 2.000          $  20,000
Support staff           2 x  13 months x $ 1.500          $  39,000
other expenses                                            S  15,000
Subtotal          $ 329,000
(ii) DNV Expenses:                                             $  58,000
Subtotal        $ 387,000
(iii) 30 Scales                                                S 300.000
Total Study         $ 687,000
3.   ASSISTANCE TO TME DIRECTORATE OF HIGHMAY WORKS AND 3ERVICES
(a) Preparation of 3iddina Documents
(i)       Backoround
The general condition and technical specifications presently used in DNV
date from 1971, and since then, only partial modification have been included,
despite the important changes which have occurred in the road sector and in road
technology. For this reason, it in necessary to review and update them, in order
to incorporate the technical innovations which have been developed, am well as
to permit the introduction of new trends in competitiveness and efficiency.
(ii)      obiectives
The main objective of the study is the preparation of model bid documents,
including: (a) general and special conditions of contract; (b) general technical
specifications for roads and bridges; (c) equipment supply bid document.; and
administrative conditions for consulting service contracts.
(iii)     S
The new text for the different documents, will be updated and bound in
loose-leaf form so as to allow future page replacements, to make future
modifications easy and permanent.   For local and international competitive
bidding of project works the sample World Bank Document for Smaller Works (less
than US$10.0 millions) will be used as a basis.



103
ANNEX 8
Page 13 of 20
(iv)      Co
Consultants             1 x   4 months x $ 5.000       $  20,000
Administrative expenses                                $  20,000
Printing of Documents                                  S  20,000
Total       $  60,000
(b) Eauiosent Policies
(i)       Background
Even though DNV has an existing equipment management system, it would need
to be adjusted in accordance with the new needs determined by the new role of
DNV. This will require disposing of obsolete equipment and purchasing new ones
of a different type. As an example, specialized equipment and work methods for
areas subject to snow falls, floods or landslides, so as to attend to emergency
works. Consequently, it is necessary to train DNV staff to select, operate and
replace equipment mainly for special purposes such as those above.
(ii)      Obi-ctiv-s
The main objectives of the study ares (a) to determine kinds, models and
quantity of DNVs' equipment needs; (b) to define corresponding requirements of
spare parts; (c) to define methods to operate equipment under special
circumstances such as high altitudes, snow, etc.
(iii)     Scope
The study should include:   (a) conducting an inventory of DNVe' major
equipment, establishing the condition and market value of existing units; (b)
definition of the type of equipment required in the light of DNV's new role; (c)
definition of the quantity of equipment needed; (d) reorganization of the
services in charge of equipment; and (e) training of mechanical staff in charge
of equipment maintenance.
(iv)      Costs
Senior Consultants           1 x  20 months x $ 5.000          $ 100,000
Junior professional          1 x   5 months x $ 2.000          $  10,000
Travel and other expenses                                      $  10,000
DNV Personnel                1 x  20 months x S   900          $  18,000
DNV Personnel tickets                      90 x $ 100          $   9,000
DNV Transportation expenses    2 x 10 months x 625/m           S  12 500
Total     $ 159,500
(c) Bridge Kanaaenent System
The maintenance of bridges and other structures is of extreme importance
in keeping the road system operational, and in providing adequate service to the
user. In Argentina, excluding major bridges and those urban super-highways, there
is an aggregate length of around 250 km bridges, a large number of which are more
than 50 years old. Due to functional obsolescence, structural deficiencies or
deterioration a portion of those should be reconstructed within the next 10
years.



104
ANNEX 8
Page 14 of 20
(ii)      ObJ2Ctive
The study aims to develop an effective tool to manage bridge maintenance
in the road network system, including appropriate technology to assess the
condition of the structures and prioritized works to be done for improvement or
replacement.
(iii)     iQPe
To reach these objectives the study should: (a) begin with a review of
existing inventory data and selection of a representative eample (about 100
bridges); (b) perform a quick survey of those hundred bridges, selecting 10 that
are in the worst condition, on which a deeper inspection would be conducted to
determine a set of parameters to classify structural condition and define
necessary repairs; (c) identify parameters and criteria to be included in the
bridge planning and management methods, and prepare manuals for routine and
preventative maintenance; (d) include in the proposed planning and management
methodology traffic, environmental, geometric, structural, maintenance and
economic considerations; (e) prepare a bridge data base including software for
bridge management; (f) calibration of the model with the selected sample of 10
bridges; and (g) appropriate training for the bridge planning and management
personnel.
(iv)      Costs
1. Consultancy expenses
Personnel:
Senior professional    2 x  14 months x $ 5.000         $ 140,000
Senior professional    1 x   7 months x $ 5.000         $  35,000
Technician              2 x  14 months x $ 2.500        $  70,000
Technician              1 x   7 months x $ 2.500        $  17,500
Support staff           2 x  14 months x $ 1.500        $  42,000
Other expenses                                          $  82,000
Subtotal       $ 386,500
1.  Subtotal (carried forward)                               $ 386,500
2.  DNV Expenses:                                            $  47,000
Subtotal       $ 433,500
3.  Inspection Equipment                                     S  25,000
Total          $ 458,500
(d)  Methods and Criteria for Selectina Pavement Alternatives
(i)       Background
The life expectancy and maintenance needs of paved roads vary if pavements
are rigid or flexible, and is also in function of traffic, the materials used,
weather conditions, terrain and maintenance history. It is therefore of utmost
importance, to consider the influence of relevant factors in selecting a pavement
type.



105
ANNEX 8
Page 15 of 20
(ii)      Obiectives
The purpose of this technical assistance is to identify criteria, methods
and procedures in the selection of pavements, for use in areas of different
characteristics, which could complement the ones already in use, such as: (a)
criteria for selection of the appropriate type of pavement; (b) criteria for
roads in low and saline regions; (c) criteria for road projects in cold regions;
(d) criteria for road projects in mountainous regions; and (e) criteria for
selections of technological alternatives for construction, reconstruction and
maintenance of pavements.
(iii)     Scope
(a)  The method for the selection of rigid or flexible pavement should
include: (i) rapid comparative analyses based on technical and
economic criteria, stressing consistency between the criteria; (ii)
design of the method for such comparisons; and (iii) computerized
implementation of the method.
(b)  To establish complementary criteria  for projects  in actually or
potentially saline regions, cold regions and mountainous regions, the
study should: (i) identify saline or potentially saline zones; (ii)
define a network stations for collection of data on temperatures and
depth of freezing in cold regions, as well as implementing data
collection; (iii) compile and select special criteria to be applied
in the geometrical and structural design, as well as in the
construction, maintenance, and repairs of pavements in those regions;
(iv) determine the financial consequences of regional factors; and (v)
define the modifications to the actual road planning and management
system, to reflect the above factors.
(c)  To define the applicability of each technological alternative, the
study should include: (i) compilation of relevant technological
alternatives in the road sector; (ii) definition of technical and
financial criteria to select the most appropriate technology for
specific regions; and (iii) definition of the best method to analyze
alternatives for a particular road.
(iv)      Costs
1. Consultancy expenses
Personnel:
Senior consultant       1 x  15 months x $ 5.000        $  75,000
Junior consultant       1 x   7 months x $ 3.000        $  21,000
Technician              1 x  15 months x $ 2.500        $  37,500
Support Staff           1 x  15 months x $ 1.500        $  22,500
Other expenses                                          $  20,000
Total consultancy  $ 175,000
2.  DNV Expenses:                                            $  38,000
3.  Equipment                   29 units x $ 1000            S  29,000
Total       $ 242,600



106
ANNEX 8
Page 16 of 20
4.   ASSISTANCE TO THE DIRECTORATE FOR ADMINISTRATION
(a)  Budgetarv Administration System
(i)       Backaround
In the framework of the Public Sector Reform Program, the Ministry of
Economy is implementing modifications to the budget administration procedures,
moving to a Management by Programs (MBP-oriented) budgeting system. Therefore
there is an urgent need to train DNV and DPVs staff in MBP techniques.
(ii)      Obiectives
The main objectives are: (a) to train DNV staff in MBP-oriented techniques,
and introduce systems and network concepts; and (b) to train DNV and DPVs, and
implement standard accounting systems and procedures, including interfaces
linking National and Provincial Accounting and Budgeting Systems.
(iii)     Scope
To achieve objective (a), a training program is envisaged which would
include the following subjects: (i) introduction to MBP budgeting systems; (ii)
introduction of standard accounting/financial categories and procedures for their
use; (iii) the technology of production units and their management; (iv) methods
of measuring productivity and establishment of efficiency and effectiveness
indexes for production units.   For objective (b), the training program will
include: information systems and procedures for registration of financial and
accounting data; rationalize and standardize accounting data processing and
filing, and the internal and external information flows and channels; internal
procedures and rules for information registration and flows; and preparation of
accounting and financial statements, and their relationship with budget execution
statements, including statement forecast.
(iv)      Costs
Professionals: 8 professionals/10 months/US$ 4,000             US$ 320,000
Technical assistants: 4 t.a/10 months/US$ 800                  US$  32,000
Air tickets, per diem, miscellaneous                           USS  48,000
Total                   USS 400,000
(b) Staff Motivation and Organization
(i)       Background
For the last 10 years DNV has suffered an institutional and human resource
weakening process. DNV has recently began a reform program related to the new
role assigned within the Public Sector reform program.
(ii)      Obiectives
To design and implement a definitive organizational structure, in line with
DNV's new role, including the transition process, and to obtain commitment to
DNV's staff to their new role within the organization through developing adequate
personnel policies.



107                               ANNEX
Page 17 of 20
(iii)     S e
In phase 1, an individual consultant will: analyze existing staff
organization and design a target staff organization, including arrangements for
the transition process; help in defining functions to be covered by the new
organization; and prepare terms of reference for phase 2. In this second phase,
a consulting firm will design personnel policies and strategies to improve
personnel management, and will focus on actions to improve staff motivation
through career development, performance oriented merit systems, training and
improved working environment.
(iv)      Costs
Phase 1:
Professional: 1 professional/6 months/US$ 5000         US$  30,000
Phase 2:
Professionals: 6 professionals/6 months/US$ 5,000   USS 180,000
Air tickets, per diem, miscellaneous                   USS  10.000
Total                     US$ 220,000
(c) Management Training
(i)       Background
DNV's new planning and administration role, as well as DPVs new
responsibilities, result in the need to improve management capabilities at
headquarters, regions, districts and DPVs levels.
(ii)      Obiectives
To train DNV and DPVs staff in modern management practices.
(iii)     Scope
Training will include: (a) identification of DNV and DPVs management
requirements; (b) management by objectives oriented techniques; (c) information
systems for decision making; (d) prospective planning for future scenarios, and
modelization and simulation technique.; (e) personnel performance oriented
techniques.
(iv)      Costs
Professionals: 4 professionals/10 months/US$ 4,000            US$ 160,000
Technical Assistant: 2 t.a./10 months/US$ 800                 US$  16,000
Air tickets, per diem, miscellaneous                          USS  24.000
Total                                US$ 200,000



108
ANNEX 8
Page 18 of 20
5 *  ASSISTANCE TO THE DIRECTORATE FOR HIGHWAY RECONVERSION
(a)  Technical Assistance to Provinces
(i)       Background
In late 1991, a survey was conducted among all DPVB of the country,
requesting their identification of technical assistance areas which they believed
should be strengthened in their organization, and which, consequently, they were
interested to include in the project. From that information, four subjects have
been identified and should be prioritized.   They are the following:  (a)
MANAGEMENT: administrative organization (5 initial provinces); (b) PLANNING:
technical-economic methodology for pavement evaluation (12 initial provinces),
as well as management training on road planning, and technical-economic-
geopolitical analysis of road projects, including related indices (10 initial
provinces); (c) DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION: manual for field inspection procedures
and bridge maintenance (one initial province), and updating construction
procedures and laboratory testing (7 initial provinces); and (d) MAINTENANCE:
Training for maintenance management (3 initial provinces).
(ii)      Obiectives
The main, common objective of the above mentioned subjects is to work as
a team, so as to be able to simultaneously program and implement the systems
included in sections A to D of this Annex, and at the same time to provide
training of technical and professional staff, committed to conLinue working for
the DPVs upon completion of the technical assistance program. Another overall
objective of the program is to help developing a new attitude of the technical
staff, contractor and politician groups, aimed to achieve an efficient and
effective way of handling road matters in the country.
(iii)     Scove
The systems should include topics such as:  road inventories, technical
evaluation of road pavement conditions, data bank systems, technical and economic
road project evaluation, introduction to new bidding documents, project review
procedures prior to bidding, technical assistance to field inspection of works,
as well as in equipment management and maintenance.   The programming and
implementation of the different systems, will be carried out by individual
consultants or consulting firms, which will have full responsibility, but which
will work together with a permanent technical assistance team of technicians from
the DPVs. This team will be well trained and will also work together with DNVs'
team of professionals for the supervision and follow up of agreed works. Within
the same program, even though independently, universities will provide their
additional support, such as developing seminars on related matters. The role of
DNV, through the Directorate of Highway Reconversion, will be to continue
supporting the DPVs technically after works have been finalized by the consulting
firms.
(iv)      Costs
Consultants                                           US$   780,000
Support staff                                         USS   180,000
Transportation                                        US$    84,600
Per diem expenses                                     US$   211,500
Miscellaneous                                         USS   115.400
Total             US$ 1,371,500



109
ANNEX 8
Page 19 of 20
(a)  Worldwide Exporience on Decentralization of Road Administrations
(i        Background
In accordance with Presidential Decree 616/92, issued on April 10, 1992,
DNV is in charge of implementing the new organizational structure (reconversion)
for planning and management of the road sector, which is based on a major
decentralization of DNV responsibilities to its Regions and to the DPVs. This
organizational scheme is similar to the one used for the Federal Highway
Administration of the United States of America, which has been in operation for
many years.   Also, the General Directorate of Roads in Spain has recently
implemented a similar system of delegation to regional autonomies. In terms of
policies, management and financial aspects, the process is complex and implies
a shift of roles and skills of management staff.
(ii)      Obiectives
The objective is to learn from the experience of foreign operators familiar
with similar systems, both at national level as well as at delegated organisms
(states or autonomies), and to be able to transfer to DNV and its personnel the
concept of the newly assigned functions.
(iii)     Sc22e
Exchange of experiences is expected between the road organizations of other
countries (particularly, USA, Spain, France) and personnel in charge of road
reform process, using existing bilateral agreements and intermediary entities
such as ICI, PHI, UNDP, etc, and through "in-situ" transfers of the system
operation, as well as technical assistance from foreign highway organizations in
Argentina.
(iv)      Coate
Personnel:
Senior professionals    6 x  3 months x $ 5.000         $  90,000
Per diem                 3 x  3 months x $ 3.000        $  27,000
Per diem                 6 x  3 months x $ 3.000        $  54,000
Tickets                 15 tickets x $ 1.500            $  22,500
Other expenses                                          S  20,000
Subtotal        $ 213,500
(c) Trainin@
(i)       Backaround
DNV training requirements have been identified by a survey, and include
training in management, planning, engineering and in highway sector reform. The
technical assistance program under the proposed project covers all of these
areas. A training unit has been created in the new DNV organization to support
training to DNV and DPVs.
(ii)      Obiectives
The objective is to improve DNV and DPVs capabilities through training or
to support training by consultants included in the proposed project.



110
ANNEX 8
Page 20 of 20
( iii )   ScoDe
The DNV training unit will: (a) prepare and coordinate a training program,
including the preparation of related supporting materials; (b) coordinate the
training provided by DNV, DPVs, Universities and road related non-governmental
organizations;  (c)  prepare and manage a traineeship program;  (d) contract
individual consultants for training; and (e) evaluate training performance.
(iv)      Costs
Senior professionals    20 professional-months x US$ 5000   US$ 100,000
Junior professionals    36 professional- months x USS 2500  USS  90,000
Traineeships (internal)  400 traineeships x USS 700            US$ 280,000
Supporting materials                                           US$ 100,000
Traineeships (external)  60 traineeships x  US$ 3000           USS 180,000
Miscellaneous                                                  USS  50.000
Total           USS 800,000
6.   ASSISTANCE TO THE ARGENTINEAN/URUGUAYAN 8I-NATIONAL COMMISSION
(a)  Complete Background Studies of the Rio de la Plata Crossinq
(i)       Backaround
A bi-national Argentinean/Uruguayan Commission has been in existence
several years for the purposes of exploring the possibilities of
constructing a land transport connection between the Buenos Aires area of
Argentina and southwestern Uruguay. Recently, the two Governments decided
to explore possible private sector interest in constructing and operating
such a connection under some sort of concession arrangement. The Bank has
agreed to finance the completion of background studies. An on-going
transport sector Bank loan to Uruguay (3021-UR) is financing the Uruguayan
contribution to these studies. The proposed project would provide similar
financing of the Argentinean contribution.
(ii)      Obiectives
Complete background studies required for soliciting tenders for a proposed
land transport link between Argentina and Uruguay.
(iii)     Scope
Consultants have prepared terms of reference for a consulting firm who
would carry oat the principal studies of technical alternatives and, in a
second phase, complete the package of documents required to invite
potential private interests to bid for financing and constructing the
crossing facility.
(iv)      Costs
(a)  Consultancy expenses                      $ 1,800,000



111
ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
PROGRAM OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING - TATP
ImDlementation Action Plan
No.L                                Servike Descintdon / ActiM|                                        Dtes (le)
1. AAtne to DNV's G_erl Admistrator's Office
(a)    National Network Refornulation Study
Contract consultants                                                                         July 31, 1993
Comnplete study                                                                            October 31, 1994
implemnent approved recommnendations                                                         July 31, 1995
(b)    Monitoring of Toll-Road Concessions
Contract consultants                                                                         July 31, 1993
Complete contract                                                                            June 30, 1997
(c)    Evaluation of Toll-Roads Concessions
Contract consultants                                                                         July 31, 1993
Conplete contract                                                                            July 31, 1994
(d)    Proiect Monitoring
Expected conpletion of ervices                                                               July 31, 1997
(e)    Other Transport Sector Studies
Prepare terms of reference                                                                 To be determined
Contract conaultants                                                                       To be deterrnined
Complete studies                                                                           To be determined
2. Asistace to the DNV's Directorate of Planing, Researc and Control
(a)    Methodology for Environmental Imiact
Complete final manual                                                                       August 31, 1993
(b)    Updating Road User Charre Studies
Prepare terms of reference                                                                  August 31. 1993
Contract consultants                                                                       October 31. 1993
Comnplete study                                                                              July 31, 1994
(c)    Highway Information Systems
Prepare terms of reference                                                                   July 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                       September 30, 1993
CompIcte study                                                                            September 30, 1995



112
ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
.                                  Senice Desucndiem   A cim                                       Data MI
(d)    Highwav Condition Survev
Preparm terms of reference                                                             September 30, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                   November 30, 1993
Purmhase equipment                                                                        May 31, 1994
Complete technical assistance                                                          November 30, 1994
Complete surveying network                                                               March 31, 1997
(e)    Highwav Planning System
Prepare termu of reference                                                                July 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                   September 30, 1993
Complete contract                                                                        March31, 1995
(f)    Traffic Information System
Prepare terms of reference                                                              January 31, 1994
Contract consultants                                                                      Abril 30, 1994
Complete contract                                                                       October31, 1995
(g)    Monitorin2 and Updatinr Maintenance and Rehabilitation olannine
Prepare tenna of reference                                                               March 31, 1994
Contract consultants                                                                      July 31, 1994
Complete contract                                                                         May 31, 1995
(h)    Vehicle Weight Control and Road Safety
Prepare terrns of reference                                                              August 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                   November30, 1993
Complete contract                                                                      December 31, 1994
3.  Assistance to the DNV's Directorate of Highway Works aod Servi
(a)    Preparation of Bidding Documents                                                            Completed
(b)    Eauipment Policies
Complete inventory                                                                        April 30, 1994
Prepare terms of reference                                                                May 31, 1994
Contract con,ultants                                                                      July 31, 1994
Complete cc'ntract                                                                       March 31, 1995
Purchase equipment                                                                     December 31, 1995
(c)    Bridze manasement System
Prepare terms of reference                                                                July 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                    October 31, 1993
Complete contract                                                                      December 31, 1994
(d)    Methods/Criteria for Selectine Pavement Alternatives
Prepare terms of reference                                                                June 30, 1994
Contract consultants                                                                    October 31, 1994
Complete contract                                                                        March 31, 1995



113
ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
No.                                Service Descridtion / Actions                                     Dates (by)
4.   Astance to DNV's Directorate for Administration
(a)    Budgetary Administrntion Svstem
Prepare terms of reference                                                                 July 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                     September 30, 1993
Complete contract                                                                        November 30, 1994
(b)    Staff Motivation and Oreanization
Prepare terms of reference                                                               September 30, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                     December31, 1993
Cornplete contract                                                                         July 31, 1994
(c)    Manacement Traininm
Prepare terms of reference                                                                January 31, 1994
Contract consultants                                                                       April 30, 1994
Complete contract                                                                          March 31, 1995
5.    Assistance to DNV's Directorate for Highway Reconversion
(a)    Technical Assistance to the Provinces
Prepare terms of reference                                                                August 31, 1993
Contract consultants                                                                     November 30, 1993
Complete contract                                                                         March 31, 1995
(b)    Worldwide Exwerience on Decentralization of Hinzhway Administration
Stan visits to foreign countries                                                          January 31, 1994
Start assistance from abroad                                                              March 31, 1994
(c)    Training
Prepare terms of reference                                                                 July 31, 1993
Contract trining proffesionals                                                            October 31, 1993
Complete contract                                                                          June 30, 1995
6.    Assistance to the Argentinean/Uruguayan Bi-national Commission
(a)    Complete Background Studies of Rio Plata Crossintg
Contract consultants                                                                        July 31. 1993
Complete studies                                                                            July 31, 1994



114
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTIN
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Flood Emergency Works Proaram
A. Introduction
1.   The following includes a brief description of each of the flood emergency
works to be included in the proposed program, a related general background,
estimated costs, expected execution time, a general qualitative justification of
each work and the present status of preparation.
B. Flood Emeraencv Works
2.   Table 1 presents a summary of the estimated cost of the total program and
Table 2 a plan of action of the main activities involved. An amount of US$1.5
million has been included in Table 1 as unallocated to cover engineering expenses
and extra works commonly found in this kind of works. Further details of each
program component are indicated below.
3.   NATIONAL ROUTE 14:
(a)  Description: Province: Corrientes; DNV District 10; National Route RN
14; Section: R117-Junction Provincial Route RP 40, (Km. 469.35 to Km.
708.90). This section is part of RN 14 which is included in the
proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, and consequently
both works should be carefully coordinated.
(b)  Backaround: This section is overflown by Uruguay River floods, traffic
is then interrupted and as a result of the recent flood this section
shows damages in pavement, shoulders and bridges.
(c) Proowsed Repairs: Reconstruction of the existing asphalt concrete (AC)
pavement in scattered sections of a total length of 25 km, repairs of
shoulders, flood protection and repairs of culverts and bridges,
construction of new culverts and improvement of traffic safety in
narrow and submersible bridges.
(d) Justification: This section carries about 1,100 vehicles per day,
there is no adequate alternative route in the vicinity and it forms
part of the international corridor leading to Brazil and the eastern
part of Paraguay. The proposed work will prevent or diminish, to some
extent, the repetition of damages due to future floods.
(e) Estimated Cost: US$3,350,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimated Contract Duration: 12 months.
(g) Status of Preparation: Field work is complete and detailed engineering
is under execution.



115
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
4.   NATIONAL ROUTE 12:
(a) Description: Province: Corrientes; DNV District 10; National Route RN
12; Section: Rio Guayquiraro - Junction Provincial Route RP 24 -
Paraje Batel, (Km. 647.28 to Km. 833.72). This section is a part of
RN 12 which is included in the proposed Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program and, consequently, maintenance/rehabilitation
and flood repair work would be closely coordinated.
(b) Background: In a number of locations along this section the recent
floods over-topped the road, severely damaging both the pavement and
some culverts.
(c) Proposed Repairs: Road grade would be raised in the critical sections
(totalling about 8,600 meters); construction and repair of culverts,
drainage improvements and repaving.
(d) Justification: This road, which carries about 900 vehicles per day,
connects the two provincial capitals of Parana and Corrientes and
serves as the only land access to the town of Goya.
(e) Estimated Cost: US$ 1,270,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 12 months.
(g) Status of Preparation: Field work and preliminary engineering has been
completed. Detailed engineering is being finalized.
5.   NATIONAL ROUTE 168:
(a) Description: Province: Santa Fe; DNV District 7; National Route RN
168, Section: Access to highway tunnel running under the Parana River.
(b) Background: The existing road is at risk of being washed out by anoth-
er flood on account of the shift in the location of the river-bank
(due to erosion) during recent floods. Previously constructed
protective works have not proved effective in checking the erosion.
(c)  Proposed Works: Construction of a re-aligned road section, further
removed from the river-bank. This would involve construction of a 400
meter long bridge and 2,400 meters of new access road.
(d)  Justification: The proposed works would assure continued access to the
river tunnel, which not only links the provincial capitals of Parana
and Santa Fe but also provides one of the three road links between the
Mesapotamia region and the rest of Argentina. The alternative
crossings of the Parana River are 500km away.
(e) Estimated Cost: US$ 5,700,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 12 months.
(g) Status of Preparation: Field studies of alternative alignments are
under way. The studies need to be completed and detailed engineering
pre-pared. The probable future behavior of the river channel should
also be checked.



116
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
6.   NATIONAL ROUTE 11:
(a) DescriDtion: Province: Chaco; DNV District 18; National Route RN 11,
Section: Paralelo 28 - Resistencia, Bridge over the Arroyo Saladillo.
(b)  Background: The 1992 floods washed out the center pier, collapsing the
bridge. It has been temporarily substituted by a Bailey bridge.
(c) Proposed Works: Construction of a new 60 meter long bridge and about
1,000 meters of access road (above flood level).
(d) Justification: The road carries about 900 vehicles per day. The pres-
ent temporary detour to the Bailey bridge only 4.3 meters wide causing
both a bottle-neck and hazards to traffic.
(e) Estimated Cost: US$ 1,000,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 8 months.
(g)  Status of Preparation: Detailed engineering for the bridge structure
has been completed and that for the road approaches is being
finalized.
7.   NATIONAL ROUTE 11:
(a) Description: Province: Formosa; DNV District 22; National Route RN 11,
Section: Chaco Province border - Arroyo Pucu, Bridge over the Arroyo
Cortapick.
(b) Backaround: The bridge and its approaches were over-topped by the 1992
floods and the bridge abutments badly scoured, as a result of an
inadequate water-way opening.
(c) Proposed Works: Construction of a new 80 meter long bridge and raising
about 800 meters of approaches above flood level.
(d) Justification: The road carries about 1200 vehicles per day and there
are no alternative roads.
(e)  Estimated Cost: US$ 1,000,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 13 months.
(g) Status of Preparation: Detailed engineering has been completed but iB
being revised to relocate the bridge parallel to the existing
structure so as to avoid having to build a temporary bridge detour
during construction.
8.   NATIONAL ROUTE 11:
(a) Description: Province: Santa Fe; DNV District 7; National Route RN 11,
Section: Reconquista - Chaco Province border. Bridge over the Arroyo
Tapenaga.
(b) Background: The bridge and its approaches were over-topped by the 1992
floods and the bridge, as a result, is now structurally unsound.
(c) Proposed Works: Construction of a new 122 meter long bridge and rais-
ing about 1,130 meters of approaches above flood level.



117
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
(d)  Justification: The road carries about 900 vehicles per day and there
are no alternative roads.
(e)  Estimated Cost: US$ 1,500,000, excluding taxes.
(f)  Estimate Contract Duration: 12 months.
(g)  Status of Preparation: Detailed engineering has been completed and
bids are scheduled to be invited soon.
9.   NATIONAL ROUTE 11:
(a)  Description: Province: Santa Fe; DNV District 7; National Route RN 11,
Section: Reconquista - Chaco Province border (Km. 2517.80 to Km.
2764.00). Bridge over the Arroyo los Amores.
(b) Background: The bridge and its approaches were over-topped by the 1992
floods resulting in scouring of the bridge abutments and severe damage
to culvert aprons. The course of the river-bottom is subject to
changes.
(c) Proposed Works: Construction of new culverts, raising the grade of
approaches, improved channelling for drainage, erosion protection for
existing structures and complementary works on the adjacent railway
line so as to better the hydraulic performance of the road bridges.
(d) Justification: The road carries about 900 vehicles per day and is in
danger of being washed-out. There are no alternative roads.
(e) Estimated Cost: USS 2,600,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 12 months.
(g) Status of Preparation: Detailed engineering has been completed and is
ready for bidding. Coordination will be needed with the railway off-
icials.
10. NATIONAL ROUTE 95:
(a) Description: Provinces:Chaco/Formosa; DNV Districts 18 and 22; Nation-
al Route RN 95, Section: Bridge over the Rio Bermejo, Km. 1250.71.
(b) Background: The bridge and its approaches were over-topped by the 1992
floods and both the north and south abutments have been scoured,
requiring the installation of a temporary metallic bridge over one
span at the southern end.
(c) Proposed Works: Construction of a new 40 meter long concrete span at
the southern end of the bridge and protective works against erosion
along the accesses to the bridge.
(d) Justification: The road carries only about 150 vehicles per day but
provides the main connection between the interior regions of the Chaco
and Formosa provinces. The nearest alternative crossing involves a
300km increase in trip length.
(e) Estimated Cost: USS 1,300,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 8 months.



118
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
(g) Status of Pr-paration: Detailed engineering for the structural work
has been completed, that of the protection of the bridge accesses is
being finalized. The plan for providing temporary passage during
construction remains to be defined.
11. NATIONAL ROUTE 123:
(a)  pDscriltion: Province: Corrientes; DNV District 10; National Route RN
123; Section: Junction RN 12 to Junction RN 14, Bridge over the Arroyo
Corrientes.
(b) Background: The bridge was not over-topped by the 1992 floods but its
road approaches were severely affected by erosion of the side slopes.
(c) Proposed Repairs: Reconstruction of wing-wall of the east abutment of
the bridge and of erosion protection works for the bridge; repairs of
slide. and erosion of the approach road side-slopes.
(d) Justification: Route 123 is the only east-west transverse road in the
province, linking two major highways. The nearest alternative route
would increase trip length by 1,000 km.
(e) Estimated Coot: USS 260,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimate Contract Duration: 6 months.
(g)  Status of Preparation: Field work has been completed. Detailed engi-
neering is being finalized.
12. NATIONAL ROUTE AO 11:
(a) Descrijtiont Province: Formosa: DNV District 22; National Route AO
11;  Section:   Access  to  Pilcomayo  Port,  (Km.  1,286.50 to Km.
1,297.72).
(b) Backaround: This section is an embankment of about 11 Km. length in
an area that is frequently flooded by the Pilcomayo River. It gives
access to the Pilcomayo Port which has an intensive traffic os small
vessels linking Clorinda an Asuncion in Paraguay. As a result of the
recent flood this section shows damages in pavement, culverts and
slopes.
(c)  Proposed Repairs:  Reconstruction of the damaged embankment which
shows signs of lateral displacement, and repairs of bridges, culverts
and pavement.
(d) Justification: The works will preserve the access to the port, the
only river terminal connecting with Paraguay.
(e) Estimated Cost: US$500,000, excluding taxes.
(f) Estimated Contract Duration: 4 months.
(g)  Status  of  Preparation:    Field  work  is  complete  and  detailed
engineering is under execution.  Construction will start once the
current flood-related temporary shelters on the shoulders have been
relocated.



119
ANNEX 9
Tabla 1
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RERABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Estimat2d Cost of Flood Emergency Work.
(in thousands USS)
Route 14                        1,650           1,700           3,350
Route 12                          340             930           1,270
Route 168                       2,300           3,400           5,700
Saladillo Bridge                  500             500           1,000
Cortapick Bridge                  500             SOO           1,000
Tapenaga Bridge                   750             750           1,500
Los Amores Bridge               1,300           1,300           2,600
| Bermojo Bridg50 |                      6S        650           1,300
Corrientes Bridge                 130             130             260
flAccos  to Pilcom yo Port         2S
Sub-total                       8,370          10,110          18,480
Unallocated                       .Q              Di           _ _ __
Sub-total                       9,120          10,860          19,980
Taxes    __15                                   2000            3 0 _
| ToTAL:                     -T10,770            12,860          23,630



120                            ANNEX 9
Table 2
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Plan of Action for Flood Emergencv Work.
EVENTS                             BY THESE DATES
A. Completion of detailed ongineering
and bidding documents for all works,       December 31, 1992
except for IN 168 which would be raady
by February 28, 1993.
B. Bids have been called for all
emergency works.                           March 15, 1993
C. Construction on at least S0S of
emergency components has started.          July 31, 1993



121
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Results of Transport Proiects in Argentina
1.        The transport projects results in Argentina are mixed.  The projects
assisted institutional development, as confirmed by completion and audit reports
for highways and railways projects. The most important contributions were the
improvement of the DNV planning practices and technologies of field surveys of
the network, and the strengthening transport planning capabilities of a young
generation of professionals that at present play major roles in the sector.
Improvements have been less noticeable with regard to broader policy issues.
Major improvements, such as pricing and intermodal planning, especially in
railway projects, recently have been achieved in the sector within the framework
of the ongoing far-reaching reform program mentioned in Section B of Chapter I
of the SAR, which is supported by Bank projects aiming to reform the public
sector and public enterprises, as well as to develop provincial and municipal
governments.  In most cases projects experienced delays, and, in some instances,
cost overruns.   Lack of local counterpart funds has been an issue common to
several of the projects. Also, significant loan amounts have to be canceled,
like the recent closure of the Bahia Blanca project, Loan 2805-AR (85% of the
loan was canceled for reasons given in para. 9) as well as about 10% of Loan
2296-AR, Fifth Highway project (para. 6)
2.        The  First  Highway  Project  (Loan  288-AR,  US$31  million  after
cancellation, June 1961) was completed in 1968 and included financing for:  (a)
40% of the construction cost of various road sections totalling about 2,600 km;
(b) the cost of imported maintenance equipment; and (c) consultant's fees for
assistance in engineering and supervision. The original Closing Date, December
1965, was postponed several times, until the final closing of December 1968.
Progress was slow, and worsened from early 1962 through mid-1965 owing mainly to
a shortage of local funds which resulted in arrears in payments to contractors,
and to various changes in government and the management of DNV which caused
confusion, lack of continuity, and poor relations with consultants. Moreover,
continuous devaluation of the peso combined with late submissions of disbursement
applications seriously delayed loan disbursements. Consequently, US$16.5 million
of the loan was canceled in August 1965.  Afterwards, project implementation
improved, though with substantial delays, and project objectives were reasonably
achieved with the construction of about 2,000 km of roads and the acquisition of
maintenance equipment. A Project Completion Report was not prepared for this
project.
3.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 619-AR, US$25 million, June 1969) was
completed in 1978 and included construction and supervision of 1,602 km (796 km
at appraisal) of highways; technical assistance for pre-investment studies,
highway planning and administration, and transport coordination; and procurement
of equipment. The project as appraised was completed with a delay of one year
and a total cost underrun of 14%. The underrun, which resulted from devaluation
of the Argentine peso and lower than expected contract prices, led the Bank to
propose inclusion of an additional 266 km of highways; however, it took two years
to reach agreement on using the surplus loan funds. This delay in turn resulted
in the additional work being affected by sharp price increases. Completion of
the additional work took two years longer and cost about 100% more than expected.
Overall the expanded project required nine years to complete successfully, with
a 9% cost overrun.   The audit ERR is a weighted average of 19% for the four
sections constructed under the original project, compared with the 12% appraisal
estimate.  Higher traffic volumes more than offset higher construction cost and
longer implementation time. The audit ERR for one of the two additional sections



122
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
was 27%, two percentage points less than at appraisal. The particular issues
that arose in connection with the project were: (a) underdisbursement of the
loan; (b) underestimation of traffic growth; (c) problems of highway management;
(d) delay in implementation of vehicle weight and dimension regulation; and (e)
major effort required for transport coordination. A long-term achievement was
institutional development: DNV has improved its capacity to plan and administer
the changing needs of the network as a result of the experience gained under the
Second Highway Project. All feasibility and engineering studies were completed
and the results form the basis of the Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
4.        The Third Hiohwav Proiect (Loan 734-AR, US$67.5 million, May 1971) was
completed in 1980. It included 18 high-priority road sections totalling about
1,128 km for upgrading or construction, as well as consulting services for
updating the national road reconnaissance survey and for feasibility and
engineering studies, which subsequently identified and prepared the Fourth
Highway Project. After the substantial progress made under the First and Second
Highway Projects, no further direct assistance for institutional development was
included in the Third Highway Project.  Although done through ICB, all civil
works were awarded to Argentine firms because international contractors showed
no interest due to extensive local competition. The total cost of road works was
about US$197 million, an increase of 41% over the appraisal estimate.   Time
overrun was 190%; the project closed 6-1/2 years after the appraisal estimate.
The overall ERR was less than expected at appraisal (17% versus 24%) mainly due
to the extended construction time, with consequent increase of cost due to
inflation and below-expectation traffic growth. The Third Highway Project was
successful despite cost overruns and long delays in completing certain sections
of the road. The project met its principal objective of upgrading key sections
of the national highway network and reducing transport costs.
5.        The Fourth Highway Proiect (Loan 1384-AR, US$105 million, May 1977)
was completed in February 1987 and included improvement, construction, and
supervision of 1,285 km, technical assistance for studies, and equipment for the
Pavement Overlay Study.   The project was amended in 1983 to allocate US$15
million for emergency repair of flood damage. There was a cost overrun of about
15%, and the time overrun was 140%. The overall audit ERR was consistent with
that expected at appraisal (22% as compare with 23% at SAR), but with a wide
variation in individual ERRs. Traffic growth was substantially lower than that
projected at appraisal.   The Fourth Highway ProjecL achieved its objective,
despite long delays in implementation.   All civil works, including emergency
works, were completed, as well as technical assistance for the National Transport
Plan, the Pavement Overlay Study, and the Traffic Safety Program and procurement
of equipment.
6.        The Fifth Hichwav Sector Project   (Loan 2296-AR,  US$100 million,
January 1984) was completed on December 31, 1990 and provided assistance in the
implementation of a series of programs included in the 1983-1986 Road Investment
Plan. About US$10 million of the loan was canceled because some of the provinces
were unable to spend their share, and the procurement of traffic counters was not
carried out.  The components of the Plan supported by the project were:  (a)
civil works for the national highway system, which included a wide variety of
works from road marking and signing to reconstruction or new construction of road
or urban beltways; (b) civil works for the provincial networks, including
betterment and reconstruction projects, as well as selected construction works;
(c) procurement of traffic counters; and (d) technical assistance to DNV and Sub-
Secretariat of Transport Planning (SSTP). After a slow start, when the Sector
Lending concept was not applied, the progress of project implementation improved,
especially for national roads. The implementation of the provincial component
overcame a number of initial difficulties, with mixed results among the
provinces.    Lack  of  local  counterpart  funds  severely  affected  project
implementation, especially in the period 1989-90. Consequently, the provincial



123
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
program was not entirely completed, and the equipment procurement and technical
assistance program to DNV were not carried out.
7.        The  First  Railway  Proiect  (Loan  733-AR,  US$56.5  million  after
cancellation, April 1971) was completed in July 1980 and was based on FA's
Investment Plan for the five-year period 1971-1975 and comprised the first two
years (1971-1972) of the Investment Plan, together with a plan of action to
improve the operations  and  financial  position of FA.   Investment  of the
equivalent of US$368 million were proposed during the project period 1971-1972,
of which the foreign exchange component was estimated at US$172 million
equivalent. The Bank loan of US$84 million was to finance 23% of the project or
49% of the foreign exchange requirements. The implementation of the project ran
into trouble almost from the start. The action taken in implementation of the
agreed program was grossly inadequate, so the Bank decided to stop disbursements
in July 1972. After an agreed project amendment, project implementation resumed.
By February 1974 it was apparent that no progress was achieved, and US$27.5
million was canceled. Main features of the project implementation were: (a) the
project was completed in 1980 instead of 1972; (b) lack of adequate Government
funds; (c) a cost-overrun of 11%; (d) only 31% of the 1971-1975 investment
program, expected to be made by 1975 was actually made; and (e) hardly any action
was taken by FA to implement the plan of action agreed with the Bank at
negotiations.
8.        The Second Railway Project  (Loan 1677-AR,  US$66.4 million  after
cancellation, March 1979) was completed in December 1984.   The project was
intended to strengthen FA through the redimensioning of its system; the
rehabilitation of its track and equipment; and the improvement of its management
and services. Also, though technical assistance and studies, the project aimed
to review various aspects of FA and to develop its planning and project
evaluation capabilities. The objectives were only partially achieved despite a
two-year extension of the loan.   Frequent changes in top management  (five
presidents between 1979 and 1985), uncertain political conditions, deteriorating
economic conditions, and accelerated monetary depreciation were significant
negative factors. Positive accomplishments included reasonable progress on main
line rehabilitation and improvement, freight car turnaround time, and boxcar
modification. The overall ERR was less than expected at appraisal (18% versus
22%), mainly due to the resulting below-expectation traffic growth. However,
only 4 projects (representing about 20% of the total economic cost) had marginal
ERRs of about 10%. In none of the project years did FA meet appraisal financial
targets. The PCR concluded that the project had only limited success and the
problems in FA were serious enough to require urgent attention by the Government.
A deep FA reform program, supported by the Bank, is now underway.
9.        The First Project. Bahia Blanca I (Loan 2805-AR, US$50.0 million, May
1987) was canceled as of April 30, 1992 with disbursements amounting to only US$8
million. The main project components were: (a) rehabilitation and modernization
of grain handling systems at elevator 5; (b) upgrading of silo safety systems;
(c) minor improvements at the Bahia Blanca port; and (d) technical assistance and
engineering studies.  The privatization of the operation of the Bahia Blanca
grain terminal (which represents about 65% of the total project cost), and the
new port law, which provides for the decentralization of the port system, caused
enough changes to make impractical the continuation of the project.



124                         ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Proiect File
The following documents, data and working papers are
available in the Project File:
A. General
a.    "Informaci6n Estadistica sobre el Personal de DNV"
(Statistical Information of DNV personnel), DNV, December
1991.
b.    "Informaci6n General y Estadistica sobre Concesiones
Viales por Peaje" (Statistical and General Data of Road
Concessions Financed by Toll Collection), Vial del Sur,
December 1991.
c.    "Programa de TATP, Solicitud Original de DNV", (Original
request by DNV of TATP), DNV/SOPyC, October 1992.
d.    "Informaci6n General sobre las Actividades Viales en Cada
Provincia, Deficiencias y Necesidades Futuras", (General
Road Information, Deficiencies and Future Needs for Each
DPV), DPVs/DNV, 1991.
e.    "Ley 23,696, Reforma del Estado", (Law 23,696,
Reform of the State), August 17, 1989.
f.    "Decreto-Ley 505/58, Ley Nacional de Vialidad", (Decree-
Law 505/58, National Law of the Highway Directorate),
January 16, 1958.
g.    'Grupo de Convenios Celebrados entre DNV y Ciertas
Provincias", (Set of Recent Accords Signed Between DNV and
Selected DPVs), DNV/DPVs, Second Half 1992.
h.    "Inversion en Infraestructura en Argentina: 1992-2000",
(Infrastructure Investment in Argentina, 1992-2000), FIEL,
May 1992.
i.    "Consideraciones Generales sobre el Sistema de Peaje",
(General Information of Toll Systems), FADEEAC, January
1991.
j.    "Estructura de la DNV", (Organizational Structure of DNV),
DNV, July 1992.
k.    "Actitudes y Demandas de Usuarios de Rutas Mantenidas por
Peaje", (Behaviour and Demand of Road Users in Toll-
financed Routes), Association of Road Concessionaires,
October 1991.
1.    "Politicas de Transporte para el Corto y Mediano Plazo",
(Transport Policies for the Short and Medium Term), SSTP,
June 1987.
m.    "Estructura Organizativa de DNV", (Organizational
Structure of DNV), DNV, February 1993.
n.    "Resoluci6n de DNV Creando la Unidad Coordinadora del
Proyecto", (DNV's Resolution Creating the PCU), DNV,
December 1991.



125                      ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
o.    "Decreto Nacional 616/92 Aprobando la Nueva Organizaci6n
de la DNV", (National Decree 616/92 Establishing the New
Organization of DNV), April 10, 1992.
p.    "Prestamo BIRF: Solicitud de Asistencia Tecnica y
Equipamiento de las Provincias", (IBRD Loan: Provincial
Request for Technical Assistance and Equipment), DPVs,
February/March 1992.
B. Economics
a.    "Resumen de las Evaluaciones Econ6micas para el Proyecto"
(Summary of Project Economic Evaluations), DNV/ISIT, March
1992.
b.    "Verificaci6n Tecnica en el Terreno de las Estrategias
Recomendadas por el Modelo HDM", (In-situ Technical
Verification of HDM Model Results), DNV, January 1991.
c.    "Porcentaje de Coincidencia entre el Modelo HDM y el Grupo
Tecnico de DNV", (Percentual Comparison Between HDM and
DNV Technical Assessment), DNV, March 1991.
d.    "Informe de la Primera Etapa de la Evaluaci6n Econ6mica",
(Results of the First Step of the Economic Evaluation),
ISIT, September 1990.
e.    "Proyecciones de Transito", (Traffic Projections), J.
Kohon, June 1990.
f.    "Evaluacion Econ6mica de Pavimentos de Hormig6n",
(Economic Evaluation of Concrete Pavements), J. Kohon,
October 1990.
g.    "Estudio de Cargas al Usuario Vial", (Study on Road User
Charges), H. Muller, October 1990.
h.    "Formulaci6n de un Plan de Recuperaci6n de la Red Vial
Nacional", (Preparation of a Plan to Recover the National
Highway Network), N. Jeansalle/M. Herz/O. Patoco/ M.
Scarampi/F. Voros, 1992.
i.    "Asignaci6n a los Usuarios de los Costos del Sistema Vial
Interurbano", (Allocation to Road Users of Costs Generated
by an Interurban Highway System), SSTP, September 1986.
j.    "Evaluaci6n Econ6mica de las Mejoras sobre los Caminos de
Hormig6n", (Economic Evaluation of Improvements on
Concrete Roads), DNV, October 1992.
k.    "Evaluaci6n Econ6mica de Caminos no Pavimentados",
(Economic Evaluation of Unpaved Roads), DNV, October 1990.
C. Engineering
a.    'Evaluaci6n de Pavimentos" (Pavement Evaluation), DNV,
1981.
b.    "Plan de Obras Preliminar de DNV durante 1992-1995" (1992-
95 Preliminary Work Program of DNV), DNV, 1991.
c.    "Santa Cruz: Programa de Acciones a Realizar en Rutas
Nacionales", (Santa Cruz: Actions to be Carried Out in
National Routes), Provincial Highway Directorate of Sant
Cruz, October 1992.
d.    "La Pampa: Programa de Acciones a Realizar en Rutas
Nacionales", (La Pampa: Actions to be Carried Out in



126
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
National Routes), Provincial Highway Directorate of La
Pampa, October 1992.
e.    "Convenio entre Santa Cruz y DNV", (Accord between DPV of
Santa Cruz and DNV), DNV/Santa Cruz DPV.
f.    "Plan de Obras para 1993, Proyecto BIRF", (IBRD-financed
Road Work Program for 1993), PCU/DNV, November 1992.
g.    "Criterios, Planificaci6n y Estrategia de la Obra de
Conservaci6n", (Criterias, Planning and Strategy of Road
Maintenance Works), N. Jeansalle, 1988.
D. Financial
a.    "Financiaci6n del Plan de Inversiones de DNV para 1993-
1997", (Financing of DNV Investment plan for 1993-1997),
DNV, October 1992.
b.    "Informaci6n General sobre Financiamiento por Parte del
Gobierno del Sub-Sector Vial", (General Information of the
Government Financing of the Road Sub-Sector), DNV,
December 1991.
c.    "Ley 24156: Administracion Financiera y de los Sistemas de
Control del Sector Publico Nacional", (Law 24156:
Financial Administration and Oversight Systems of the
Public Sector of the Nation), September 1992.
d.    "Presupuesto de DNV para 1993", (DNV Budget for 1993),
DNV, February 1993.
E. General (Presented at Negotiations)
a.    "Estructura Organizativa de DNV", (DNV Organization
Structure), DNV, February 1993.
b.    "Personal de DNV", (DNV's Staff), DNV, February 1993.
C.    "Composici6n del Personal de DNV por Funcion", (DNV's
Staff by Functions), DNV, February 1993.
d.    "Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Detallada del Plan de 1993 del
Prestamo del BIRF", (Detailed Economic Evaluation of 1993
IBRD Project Plan), ISIT, April 1993.
e.    "Politica de Concesiones", (Policy on Road Concessions),
SOPyC, 1993.
f.    "Concesiones Viales", (Road Concessions), DNV, 1991-92.
g.    "Corredores Viales, Informacion General", (General
Information on Road Concessions), DNV, 1993.
h.    "Terminos de Referencia para Supervision Financiera de
Concesiones", (Terms of Reference for Financial
Supervision of Road Concessions), DNV, April 1993.
i.    "Presupuesto Nacional para 1993", (1993 National Budget),
Law 24191, December 1992.
j.    "Presupuestos Hist6ricos de DNV, 1980-92", (Historical DNV
Budgets, 1980-92), DNV, March 1993.
k.    "Plan de Obras BIRF, 1993", (1993 IBRD Works Plan), DNV,
April 1993.



127                        ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
1.    "Plan de Obras BIRF por Provincias, 1993-98", (1993-98
IBRD Works Plans by Provinces), DNV, April 1993.
m.    "Inversi6n 1993, Obras en Ejecucion", (1993 Investments
for Ongoing DNV Works), DNV, April 1993.
n.    "Presupuestos de DNV para 1993-2000", (1993-2000 DNV
Estimated Budgets), MEOSP, April 1993.
o.    "Plan de Obras 1993-97", (1993-97 DNV Works Plan), DNV,
April 1993.
p.    "Estado de la Red Pavimentada 1992", (1992 Condition of
the Paved Road Network), DNV, March 1993.
q.    "Transito Medio Diario Anual, 1989-90", (1989-90 AADT),
DNV.
r.    "Plan de C-nsos Permanentes y do Cobertura", (Permanent
and Complementary Traffic Stations), DNV, 1993.
B.    "Archivo Vial Base", (Road Inventory), DNV.
t.    "Reconversion Vial en las Provincias Pilotos de Santa Cruz
y La Pampa", (Information on Pilot Provinces of Santa Cruz
y La Pampa), DNV, Ap;il 1993.
u.    "Informe de Conservaci6n Vial", (Road Maintenance Report),
DNV.
v.    "Informe sobre Estado de los Equipos de DNV",(Condition of
DNV Equipment Report), DNV, April 1993.
x.    "Indice de Estado para la Red Nacional Pavimentada", (IE
for National Paved Network), DNV, April 1993.
y.    "Plan de Obras de DNV, 1993 - 97", (DNV Work Plans of
1993-97), DNV, 1993.
z.    "TOR para Reformulacion Red Nacional"  (TOR for National
Network Reformulation), April 1993.






MAP SECTION



I



/ARGU                                  PARAG (
UC A~~~~~~ 
~. j             0  OBACATAMARCA  ANTIA
SAN JUANSA
-f  y  s  s    G .>S( of 5a  Mo,I,
2"+ .0. ; 1 1 . ! ;
'-  1 f RM < tX < ~~~U UGU  ,AYLOSL ihtSltF; v;L rds.i
_ USX ' ' . F
,,;,N7,,<yk ~~~~    LUIS= _ ,,    J, I    '  i  g   l     >
e-,+   i> <  ;W; .X> -a.*>7C;, + ,.]>;  a * f S l,~~~~~~AIRE
1s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O






IBRD 2471
76                     ~~~~~~~~~~7'20     To M..oo      68                          oCrooT uo6BOLIVIA
Buenos AireL ,                               BRAZIL
PARAGLIAY.
36-                                                      Alg e     Ag 1sob6l    Santa Rosa                          36)              ARGENTINA
g  Bor  L A  P A M  P A G  Roo                            Areo of mop        (JURUGULY
_  , Ba.o R-nqudWl_       T  Cho-horrorend,   Acho   nile                             j        Buenos A,res*
tb  < M lol    _    -- tuelen  ~El C or       b        \-fti  
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
u6n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
P. N4QE            cz Cotri           C                       m    O   
I J-nin d.    G  
5  0os Aol%Ol{6        R i O  N E G R O                                                        I
;ng oco o,i           
~~~ (J   9aS~~~~~~~~lq..                                          M.d,yn;
H U BlU T Z                REHABILTAEIONDI MENTANCE FOROAST
>   \   OSorm,entO   (                                  ~~~~~~PAVEMENT AND CONCRETE PAVEMENT
'                       !        9y Corn~~~~~~~~~oedoro Rreadao,a                              REPAIRS
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It Oloj                                   -           t         s..55  ASPHALT CONCRETE OVERLAYS
_                    (        |    ~~~~~~los Hero,O Violro***-   TOTAL PAVEMENT RECONSTRUCTION
ciP ) 
tsN- RAILROADS
)                     |  P b.~~~~~Pt Desnadn                    SELECTED TOWNS
PE PROVINCE  CAPITALS
L-  Horquers06i
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-48'                                                     C R U Z  El S.lod3                                                                                      48
-48-                                                                   -      i   Z  .  REGION BOUNDARY
,  /  ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Aad6 deLa,Yam  i                                           C
{' ;"u~~'3                    fd
-52'                                                                            TIERRA                          00052~-
DEL FUEGO
oio Greed.                                    KILOMETERS
This -ep h.. bee prepored by Th. Wiadd B-,ooks   ..tuff lyf.
9 ' E    ;  i,Lr  >'> N'                                                                                 CuluifI fu
,r.   f     I   UIFOI                                   the  nrinee of rteadens-and is for th. inter-I -s *  of The Word
-a,ni Group. Th. d.rororoidns used and thr bdoundries shown on this
'ep do nut iepny. - thy part of The World Bank Group, ny udgm ni
(         S                                      such boundaries.
L0  78)                                    72-                    68                     64                                         56      M
MARCH 1993






IBRD 24717
A RG EN   I  A 6A'60                                                                   PARAGUAY    56'
ARGENTINA                                                               60                     ARAGUA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND                                                                             1--40 
REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT                                                         Ta
REGION 11
28'            100         200        300         400               12 8 --
KILOMETERS                F. S.nfi.g. d. {EseO- |t                    Sj        COR       
T. S..                                                           C I   IR R I E   E N T E 
BRAZIL
-tooRiojoS Cr,ntobal
Ta La R,oja~~~~~~~~~~~Deot 
C6rd<                                            G    ENTRE 
n   i\:)  \   //        Rosos    t f              ~~~~~R I O  S  ;.
Sort. Rod                    Vik Morio          ,  \z.
-32'L    Fe.                                                                                                                                   32'
s2 <            Jario           URUGUAY
C)            S A N                                                                S ug <  NicNi olI6,r
'uJ
Th;, -ap h., been prepared                                                                             BUENOS AIRES
by The World Rnk', staff
Grop -edenmnrosue crr--- ph|                                                                              /.  L o Plato
and h 6udol,bon-~>~I- ._ f 1h   1\d B.r
eon hs,mpdoae  mly    ont the  To5onaen,  .nre~                                                 ff        lo>
fr ad er  In  ... .. f -r   - dhoo                                                                                    I
inenlote of The World Rank                        VroIIeRofoe .<  BR  / 
G    -ap -Te dno,na,no
on -isttp dono  Iml,a   h  T.  o
pant af Th.e WaId Ra-k G-op,  Rfe
any jd9nrent on the Iepoi             oSno>        \Teuc         \       </t 
endorsement at acceptance of                          aoq  \     t     oraj molowvf1
sooh ta,undar 3 ,e,S/X 
36'O i               LA    PAMPA                                             I    S A-1                                                        36!
\BOLIVIA         1       BAI
PARAGUAY_.                                                                                               A  t Ian ti c
Area of mop                   T. Santa Rot                                f                                           c e a n
e4                                         /                                           < Tornquist  <  / Mar del Plato
ARGENTINA  BuauG&UY                                     Bohia Blo     a
w)       Buenos Aires                ToNraqu5n N
U
!                                   RB I                          --4r-  NATIONAL ROADS                       o    SELECTED TOWNS
,![C ,                                PERIODIC MAINTENANCE FOR            O    PROVINCE CAPITALS
ASPHALT PAVEMENT AND
CONCRETE PAVEMENT REPAIRS         -    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
..  ASPHALT CONCRETE OVERLAYS                 REGION BOUNDARY
40'  To Roson                                                                                          40
-J ---   INTERNATIONAL
RAILROADS                                  BOUNDARIES
640                                        60'                                        561
MARCH 19931






'N      68                                                              BOLIVIA           IBR  24718
ARGENTINA                                                                                    L. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
, A R G E N T I N A          '                                                                               PARAGUAYA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND                                                                         TUCUMAN                                        
REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
,REGION   11I/'II]>
2               ,_>                   ~~CATAMARCA                       e 26               :5           |         3 
28-                                                                                                                          \   ARGENTINA   (URUGI,Y/
Buenos Aires*
7                              AIpaisjetcWe  tXTo Cosaosorco                  . L
f   Aimrogas
j     )                   i~~~~~~~~~~~chil.cio            T. S\-Ii     _ .
J                             l A4tNonogrzstro ,ga Rioia         \U0 Sont;oLo          ( 1               A H o Enac
(   g    @   /  0   R I D J A  v   V                Ocen
U    )  Pd. del                                                                                                i Z-nAAND61AcNDS
%.Aguo Negro  .....,_ _ J\>'~_IAVILS
ochal                      Caomsical
/                                                                        To Cdrdoba               64'Tucunu
HZ;      _    ,              ~~~~~~~~~~~~S A N   IJU A N                                                              6  /  c4
0              100             200
{v  > #  #  1  \  \                        KILOMETERS
0                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~San Juan  Bermelo                                              T, .  -b-p..
O               San Juan   4         3     e r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <t                  r~~~~~~~~his nsap has been prepored
To Cordobo      ly Tb. Wforld Bank' o2-
2.                                     I.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecurel o the c_...n,nc
ofradr  odi fur tire  32n
nsernol use_of TheWorldBonh
on             ~~~~~~G-op Th. d-nonrn..;n...d
32-                                                                        Ec                    Quines      osn                  and the boundor-es ho_n
port  of  T h.  W orld     fo nf Group.
Concar6  ~ ~~~~on u~rrnt on the te9ol
U   k   \La                   gEI Alpero       <     V      6                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ endorsement or occeptonce of
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                                                                                n, "t  -
A   SRafaeS   /          ~~~~~~'I T L.                            -d_S 5
u                               '\a  Cuevo                     El Alpero                                                      su,h boondore-
(;\Son Martin                              Scln IsiMro                                   CO/Aioa
36-                                                      reoo Buenos AEroc
El o  reodio      E       N    D         A             S      ANnoGio 
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ I& 1
36'   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Bor~~~~~Pdo Bloo As             !eBea seaz
/   \  f                          ~~~~~~~~--4~-...-  NATIONAL ROADS                         SELECTED TOWNS
1   xi                              -     ~~~~~~~~~~PERIODIC MAINTENANCE FOR ASPHALT  0    PROVINCE CAPITALS
(   ~~~~~~~8\ ~~~~~PAVEMENT AND CONCRETE PAVEMENT                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
|    '<__                        Blz       ~~~~~~~~ASPHALT CONCRETE OVERLAYS         -      REGION BOUNDARY
j           r~~~o zopolo                    ** ******- TOTAL PAVEMENT RECONSTRUCTION                     BOUNDARIES
9  VargasRAILROADS
I   72      S       E                                  68se                                                     64'
MARCH I1993






IBRD 24719
_\  BOLIVIA <         RA BRAZIL                                           A R G E N T I N A
RAGUY>.                     +ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
t   .'f hREHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
/                    /                                                      REGION IV
Area of mop
e .                                              -.s---  2NATIONAL ROADS                             -      RAILROADS
ARGENTINA   (URUGUAY                              PERIODIC MAINTENANCE FOR ASPHALT           0     SELECTED TOWNS
O Q j Buenos Aires v                                        PAVEMENT AND CONCRETE PAVEMENT            0     PROVINCE CAPITALS
Lu  Buenos Ai e~                ~REPAIRS
........ ASPHALT CONCRETE OVERLAYS                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
........    TOTAL PAVEMENT RECONSTRUCTION        -    ,   REGION BOUNDARY
u- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C rJ                                   -\              B O L I V I A
0  l       /t    A tIl ra n t*c iL Cac a                                     \ 
Ocean                                                                                          '    PARAGUAY
Abro Pompo
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aguas Blanca
VQFAJJ'AAKO ISIANI                                      Rio Pescodo
IMAuA1N&1) =  ffiJJ u i u Y                              Tabaco       b                                      K
68e       _i_ Tilcaro                                   >      \und l
/\   /            *gLib Groi;   (                          T  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Forrmoso  
-24                                                                              on Pedro                                      I V( )A
-  o/          S.A. de bs Cobres   EE Cormen
'/-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
,/               +%   v    ~                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ero
(                         ~~~~~~~~~~Cpa. Quijano   Gri. Alvar2 a.Olleros             /
Poyogasci S A                                     T  A    I Tunol
C H I L E      '                                                       Rosorio 
\                      ~~~~~~~~~~Son CarlosV ,
I                                                                                                               T To R-JWJrnC-O
9  Los Moiorrosg     4)9onX                                  jCampo Gallo
j ~~~~~~~~Punto de Bolot              T U                           S  A   Na T I A       C  
C A T A M A Rt A                                    otako \1 E I 
28L                         Trnogo ta                                         PNco Corral                                                   28W
~ Catarnoi T - ttatamarca
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v Xm icha                                                           A g    tu\
S A N                                   To 1. R;ojo            artRecme nngo                                    <
F   JUAN                      LA R I  O J A                                                                                     SA, N i r
200 KILOMETERS
{ Th, ophb n >or Sr f,I,i.nou ................orh  .. hCordobo  (  Q  R D C ) i A
mop do not i, on sh. part of The World bon- Group, ony judgment
an the legal status of any lnrr,tory or any endorsement or aecepsonee of
-sh bo-ndor,-            6B         .
MARCH 1993






IBRD 24720
BO LIVIA                                                    60                               f                              56
ARGENTINA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
REHABILITATION SECTOR PROJECT
j \*                                                                                      REGION V
S   A 1 TA                  \\                                                       NATIONAL ROADS                                  0       SELECTED TOWNS
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE FOR ASPHALT                0       PROVINCE CAPITALS
T. S- R ... n                                      PAVEMENT AND CONCRETE PAVEMENT                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
To Son Romton ,_                 _                                               REPAIRS                                                ROVIN  BOUNDARE
24'                                                      ......... ...    ASPHALT  CONCRETE  OVERLAYS                       REG    ION BOUNDA RY
-24                                            N >  _                     *.     e    T TOTAL PAVEMENT RECONSTRUCTION LA E CIBOUNDARIES                                24O
-s-----,-, RAILROADS
/              ~~~~~~~La& Lomi*6  
/                     ~~~~~~~~~~E. diel C o m    
t\,,~~~~  t~og. oblnc            Corin6lo
To Olleros_/                                      Cmb. Fontana <~XP nto
rnhnes S |                      Formoso                    PARAGUAY                       Pt./ .gU      'N
Brnaro
Po                                                                               l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d rig
s A N                      I del ne             Pros. R. Saenz PoRA
T. So.n.q. del Est.ro                                asit  ci       Crr entes                        ~Dsd
,28'
r. Sanh We1       &oads                              {Z
7     Fernandez              Scono tor*6  S
v4 d .........code                                                B  R  A    Z    I L
i//   Cvatro1 cot_> Paso de los Libres   0              100             200            300
KILOMETERS
Paz       @       S gi                   \                            \BOLIVI               '          L
PARAGUA Y.
ngo  JuE                                                                /          Area of mop  /
-32'                                    Diomande lagna
URUGUAY                                                            II
Co"pi6n del Uruguay                               51.5        suenos Aires*
\   Gnol Galar2       2                                                   Q   91   ARGENTINA
by h.Wol oksaf
\      6/       <                   e r~~~~~~~~~~~~~nlosio.ly far th. uon'eni-noo.
C   s           of renders ~~~and sfrh
internal u.. of Th. World Bank
Group Th. dero,o notions o.o           i          -d
and th. bound-ri.s sho- 
an this nrap do nor in,ply on th.
part of The World Bank Group,
any o.dgnr on  the lega                 ( 
\..sas of any teritory or any       .
2/    '1 '           ~~~~~~ndo'oen mant or aocpranr. af       I
esunhbo nd aris                         i
BUENOS AIRES
6,0'56
6N0  __________________M                                                  R      1993
MARCH 1993



