Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3611 AR
Loan Agreement
(Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 1, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3611 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1993, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated April 23, 1993 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the road sector of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called 
the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by DNV (as such term is hereinafter 
defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance the Borrower 
will make available to DNV (as such term is hereinafter defined) the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DNV" means Direccion Nacional de Vialidad, the Borrower's national road 
directorate, established by Decree-law No. 505/58 of the Borrower, dated January 16, 
1958, as amended;
(b)
"DPV" means Direccion Provincial de Vialidad, the road directorate of any 
of the Provinces of the Borrower; 
(c)
"EU" means the environmental unit within DNV, as referred to in Section 
3.08 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Implementation Schedule" means the schedule of activities to be carried 
out under the Project, including a set of targets for such carrying out, as set forth 
in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(e)
"National Network" means the set of roads in the territory of the 
Borrower which are owned by the Borrower, and which are to be maintained by the 
Borrower in accordance with Decree-law No. 505/58 of the Borrower, dated January 16, 
1958, as amended;
(f)
"PCU" means the coordinating unit within DNV, as referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Province" means any of the Provinces of the Borrower; 
 
(h)
"PTAT" means the Borrower's program containing the technical assistance 
and training activities under the Project, set forth in the Implementation Schedule;
(i)
"Region" means any of the five regions in which the activities of DNV are 
carried out, and in which DNV maintains a regional office, all in accordance with 
Decree No. 616/92 of the Borrower, dated April 10, 1992;
(j)
"RIP" means the Borrower's road investment program for the years 1993 
through 1997, as set forth in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date 
herewith, as such program may be amended from time to time;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(l)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DNV pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred and forty 
million dollars ($340,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
Page  4
and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Administrador General of DNV, or the person or persons 
appointed by said Administrador General, are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DNV with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public utility 
practices and with the Program and the Implementation
Schedule, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause DNV to carry out the Project in accordance with the Program and the 
Implementation Schedule and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Agreement all the obligations of DNV therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provisions of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DNV to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) with DNV, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank, for the purposes of transferring to DNV the proceeds of the Loan.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Subsidiary Agreement or any provisions 
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the 
Bank shall be utilized in the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services 
(as applicable) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause DNV to maintain, at all times, in good 
condition the non-concessioned roads of the National Network and to make, from time to 
time, promptly as needed, all necessary repairs thereof, in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public utility practices.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DNV:
(a)
to maintain a coordinating unit (the PCU), for the purposes of 
coordinating the carrying out of the activities under the Project, with functions, 
structure and staff satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
by not later than November 30, 1993, to hire a consultant, whose 
qualifications and terms of reference shall be approved by the Bank, such consultant 
to work in the PCU on a part-time basis and to be responsible for the preparation of 
reports on the progress attained in the reforms in the road sector of the Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
review with the Bank and DNV, by not later than July 31 in each year, 
Page  5
starting in 1994, any new investments to be included in the RIP for each respective 
twelve-month period;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, by not later than December 31 in each year, starting 
in 1993, a copy of the RIP to be implemented in the respective succeeding twelve-month 
period; and
(c)
promptly inform the Bank of any changes introduced in a RIP furnished to 
the Bank in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause DNV:
(a)
to hire, by not later than December 31, 1993, the consultants to carry 
out a study on the organizational structure of DNV, as set forth in PTAT;
(b)
to present to the Bank, by not later than September 30, 1994, for 
comments, the recommendations of such consultants; and 
(c)
to start the carrying out of such recommendations, by not later than 
December 31, 1994, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by not later than July 31, 1995, and in 
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, start the carrying out of the 
recommendations of the study on the review of the current classification of the 
National Network and of the roads owned by the Provinces, presently being carried out 
in accordance with the description included in the PTAT.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DNV to maintain an environmental unit 
(the EU) for the purposes of identifying any potential environmental problems and to 
propose the respective mitigative measures, with functions, structure and staff 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall allocate in its annual budget all the amounts, satisfactory to the 
Bank, as shall be required for the carrying out of the routine maintenance (as such 
term is defined in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) activities in the 
Borrower's territory in any such year.
Section 3.10. Before commencing to execute, or authorizing the execution of, or 
committing funds for the execution of, any work under Part A of the Project (except 
works for routine maintenance, as such term is defined in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement), in relation to any specific section of the road where any such 
work is to be executed, the Borrower shall cause DNV to furnish to the Bank a report, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing the economic feasibility of the carrying out of such 
work, including that the respective economic rate of return shall be at least 12% 
(twelve percent), such rate of return to be calculated in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause DNV to furnish to the Bank:
(a)
by not later than November 30, 1994, the recommendations of the study on 
the present structure of road user charges, as compared with former structures, as set 
forth in the PTAT, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
by not later than March 31, 1995, a plan of action for the carrying out 
of such recommendations, satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to include a timetable 
for such carrying out.
Section 3.12. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than October 31, 1995, furnish to the Bank the terms of 
reference for the review referred to in paragraph (b) below, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
by not later than December 31, 1995, review, jointly with the Bank and 
DNV, the progress in the carrying out of the Project, the performance of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement, and the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project, such review to be based on the terms of reference referred to in 
paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
if, as a result of the above review, the progress in the execution of the 
Project, or in the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower 
Page  6
shall promptly take or cause to be taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to 
the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DNV to maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause DNV to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
DNV to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the RIP has been amended in a form so as to materially and adversely 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the 
dissolution or disestablishment of DNV or for the suspension of its operations; and
(c)
the Borrower or DNV shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and DNV;
(b)
that a manual containing the environmental standards and guidelines to be 
used in the carrying out of the activities in the road sector of the Borrower has been 
furnished to the Bank; and
(c)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and DNV and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DNV in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
that all action referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date December 30, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios
   Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Daniel Marx
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works (other than                           47%
    for routine main-
    tenance):
    (a)  for recon-           78,000,000
         struction,
         repairs and
         overlays;
    (b)  for periodic        105,000,000
         maintenance;
         and
    (c)  under Part B         11,000,000
         of the Project
 (2) Works for routine         73,000,000        60% until dis-
    maintenance                                 bursements under
                                                this Category
                                                shall have reached
                                                an aggregate
Page  9
                                                amount not to
                                                exceed the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $45,000,000; 40%
                                                until disburse-
                                                ments under this
                                                Category shall
                                                have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                not to exceed the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $63,000,000;
                                                and 20% thereafter
(3) Equipment                  4,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 85%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(4) Consultants'              31,000,000        100%
    services and
    training
(5) Unallocated               38,000,000
         TOTAL               340,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "routine maintenance" means the road maintenance and repair 
activities in non-concessioned roads of the National Network, or in any such roads 
where the concession contracts have been terminated, which are scheduled by DNV to be 
performed at least once a year in any specific road section; and
(d)
the term "periodic maintenance" means the road maintenance activities 
which are scheduled by DNV to be performed at intervals of more than one year in any 
specific road section.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3)  and (4) 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 31, 
1992; and (b) payments made for equipment specified below, under Category (3), unless 
the Bank has received a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of the respective recommendations:
(i)
of the study referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of the PTAT, with 
respect to equipment for pavement conditions assessment;
(ii)
of the study referred to in paragraph 2 (f) of the PTAT, with 
respect to equipment for traffic counting;
(iii)
of the study referred to in paragraph 2 (h) of the PTAT, with 
respect to equipment for vehicle weight control; and
(iv)
of the study referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of the PTAT, with 
respect to equipment for bridge inspection.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the financing of 
part of the RIP for the years 1993 through 1997, and to support the activities related 
to: (i) the improvement of the efficiency of the road subsector of the Borrower, by 
providing part of the resources necessary to maintain and rehabilitate the sections of 
the roads which have not been entrusted to the private sector through concessions; and 
(ii) the repair and replacement of the sections of the roads damaged by the heavy 
floods that occurred in 1992 in the Provinces of Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa and Santa 
Fe of the Borrower, which are included in the RIP.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Works
 
Carrying out of part of the road maintenance and reconstruction works included 
in the RIP for the years 1993 through 1997.
Part B:
Flood Emergency Works
 
Carrying out of repair and replacement works in the roads and bridges damaged by 
the floods of 1992, in the Provinces of Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa and Santa Fe of the 
Borrower, which are included in the RIP.
Part C:
Equipment
 
Acquisition and utilization of office, communication and field equipment for, 
inter alia, traffic counting, weight control and road condition rating.
Part D:
Technical Assistance and Training
 
Carrying out of the PTAT.
Part E:
Highway Reform
 
Carrying out of the highway reform activities described in the Program, 
including pilot reforms in the Provinces of La Pampa and Santa Cruz of the Borrower.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1998
through   June 1, 2008
17,000,000
 
Page  11
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) appli-
cable to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the 
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, 
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two  redisclosed 
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,500,000 and $250,000 or more each, 
respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works for Part B of the Project, and, except as provided in paragraph 2 below, 
works for other Parts of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$3,500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
Page  12
$364,500,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Works for routine maintenance (as such term is defined in paragraph 2 (c) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $31,000,000, or such other aggregate amount as shall be determined 
by the Bank from time to time, may be executed under contracts between DNV and DPVs, 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured in accordance with the 
procedure described in Part A.1 hereof; and (ii) the first three contracts for works 
procured by each Region in accordance with the procedure described in Part C hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts D and E of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  13
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remainingunwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
Page  14
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
