CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 386 JO
Project Agreement
(Hussein Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
DATED MAY 24, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 386 JO
Project Agreement
(Hussein Thermal Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
DATED MAY 24, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and JORDAN
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called JEA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand dollars
($10,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that JEA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and JEA,
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to JEA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS JEA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JEA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and


﻿4
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in the preparation of detailed designs and
tender documents, evaluation of bids and supervision of construction of the Project,
JEA shall at all times employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and shall at all times
employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association for the design and
supervision of construction of the 132 kV transmission system between Zarqa and
Amman.
Section 2.03. JEA shall employ tariff specialists acceptable to the Association
under terms of reference and on conditions satisfactory to the Association to study
and make recommendations to JEA not later than December 31, 1974 for its
wholesale tariff structure, and to the Government for a retail tariff structure to
be implemented throughout Jordan.
Section 2.04. JEA shall employ, not later than April 30, 1974, management
consultants acceptable to the Association under terms of reference and on
conditions satisfactory to the Association to advise JEA on its organizational
changes resulting from the project and to make recommendations covering inter
alia JEA's financial control, accounting, budgeting and management structure and
procedures.
Section 2.05. In carrying out Part A of the Project, JEA shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
Guidelines for Procurement), and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) JEA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by JEA
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, JEA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.08. (a) JEA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   JEA: (i) shall maintain rfcords adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.09. JEA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JEA
Section 3.01. JEA shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound engiieering, administrative, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers. To that end, but without
limiting the generality of the fofegoing, JEA shall promptly after receipt furnish
to the Association the recommendations of its consultants, review with the
Association   such  recommendations     without   delay,  and   implement    such
recommendations as shall have been agreed between the Association and JEA to
be appropriate.
Section 3.02. (a) JEA shall maintain its existence and right to carry on
operations, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its
business.


﻿6
(b)   JEA   shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, facilities,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. JEA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. JEA shall ensure that the position of its General Manager,
Chief Engineer, Chief Accountant and Superintendent in charge of Hussein Power
Station shall at all times be filled by qualified and experienced persons and shall
consult with the Association regarding appointments to the post of General
Manager, and shall inform the Association of the names and qualifications of
individuals filling the remaining posts and prospective appointments thereto.
Section 3.05. JEA shall at all times maintain its salary scales at levels adequate
to ensure the employment of competent staff in sufficient numbers.
Section 3.06. JEA shall submit to the Association for its review the detailed
proposals for its preliminary reorganization, remuneration schedules and the
proposed program for recruitment and training of its staff, including the relevant
cost estimates in local and foreign currencies not later than September 30, 1973.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. JEA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. JEA shall: (i) have its accoints and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such


﻿7
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of JEA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall
take all necessary steps to establish and maintain tariffs at a level sufficient to
yield an annual rate of return of not less than 9% on the value of net fixed assets.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using
as the denominator in respect of each fiscal year the average
of net fixed assets in operation for power at the beginning and
at the end of each such year and as the numerator JEA's
operating income for that same year.
(ii)        The term   "net fixed assets" shall mean the gross value of such
assets in operation less accumulated depreciation, all determined
in accordance with sound valuation and depreciation methods,
acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross revenues from   electric power, plus other recurring
fees and charges associated with electric power; and
(B)   the   operating  and  administrative expenses, including
overhead and adequate provision for maintenance and
repairs, provision for straight line depreciation based on
the useful life of major categories of assets, and for taxes,
but before provision for interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JEA shall not
incur any debt without prior approval of the Association, unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement in any succeeding fiscal
year (including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be incurred) on all debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:


﻿8
(a)   The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of JEA, including debt
incurred by others on behalf of JEA but for the service of which JEA is responsible,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term   "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from     power
operations, adjusted to take account of JEA's rates in effect at all time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during all or a part of
the fiscal year .or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses and provisions for taxes, if any, but before
provision covering depreciation, interest and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and JEA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and JEA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of JEA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and JEA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and JEA of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿9
Section 5.03. JEA shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
the Project and all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of JEA and any
other relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of JEA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify JEA of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For JEA:
Jordan Electricity Authority
P. 0. Box 2310
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:
SAKA
Amman, Jordan
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of JEA may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. JEA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of JEA, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by JEA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Z. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or. more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, JEA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by JEA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and JEA shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, JEA shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, JEA shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants for the Project
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform JEA
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise JEA
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(c) of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿13
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment, JEA shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform JEA and the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise JEA of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(c) of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Jordan of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
imnanufactured in Jordan.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.


﻿14
3.    For goods included in Category 1 of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin of preference may
be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be
granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with
Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered
in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
1.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred         None
Domestic Bids.
I.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign        Preference
Bids;                                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if          None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
Ill.      If lowest evaluated bid under Stage 11 is not          None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


