CREDIT NUMBER 1099 MAI
Development Credit Agreeiment
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         ;M7n                 , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1099 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated J-dF"A4Ar   X0, 1981, between the REPUBLIC
OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MOWS" means the Ministry of Works and Supplies of the
Borrower;
(b) "EPD" means the Economic Planning Division within the
Office of the President and Cabinet of the Borrower;
(c) "District Council" means the district council, a body
corporate established pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, for
any of the Borrower's districts included in Part B (i) (c) of
the Project; and
(d) "First Phase of DRIMP" means the first phase of the
Borrower's district roads improvement and maintenance program
carried out in the Kasungu, Mulanje, Mzimba and Salima Districts
of the Borrower pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
(Second Highway Project), dated December 19, 1974, between the
Borrower and the Association, as last amended by exchange of
letters dated June 9, 1978 and July 11, 1978 between the
Association and the Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million nine handred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1991, and ending
February 1, 2031, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B (i) (c)
of the Project through the District Councils under the supervision
of MOWS, Part E through EPD, and the other Parts through MOWS,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, training and
planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section and without any limitation or restriction
thereon, the Borrower shall in particular: (i) make available, on
a grant basis, to each District Council the funds necessary for
road maintenance under Part B (i) (c) of the Project to the extent
the resources available to such Council from its own revenues
are not sufficient to cover the expenditures required for this
purpose; and (ii) not later than four months before the beginning
of each fiscal year of the Borrower until completion of said Part
of the Project, review with the Association the amounts proposed
to be made available for this purpose to the District Councils
during such fiscal year.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the
evaluation of bids and the supervision of works for Part A of
the Project and in the carrying out of Parts B, C (i) and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alios,
a transport economist to assist in carrying out Part E of the
Project to be appointed not later than December 31, 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and


﻿-5-
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, at its request,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance
with the design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out Part B (i) of
the Project in accordance with annual work programs agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association. For this purpose, the
Borrower shall, not later than four months before the beginning of
each fiscal year of the Borrower until completion of said Part of
the Project, furnish to the Association for its concurrence the
proposed work program for such fiscal year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall complete the study to be
carried out under Part C (i) of the Project by May 31, 1982.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall select candidates whose
qualifications and proposed training programs shall be satis-
factory to the Association for purposes of training under Part E
of the Project; the first such candidate shall be selected by
June 1, 1981 and the remaining candidates by December 31, 1981.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof (the Project
Accounts).
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained until
one year after the Closing Date, as a separate part of the Project
Accounts, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the


﻿basis of certificates of expenditure, and shall enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to inspect such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project Accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by its Auditor General
or other independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as ayailable, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) a
certified statement of the Project Accounts for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by the Auditor General or
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by the Auditor General or said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on.1the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the Project Accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to maintain or
cause to be maintained adequately its rain and secondary road
network, the district roads improved under the First Phase of
DRIMP and under the Project, and its road maintenance equipment,
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be
made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, equipment, workshop facilities, labor and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section and without any limitation or restriction
thereon, the Borrower shall, inter alia:
(i) promptly upon completion of the study under Part C
(i) of the Project, exchange views with the
Association on the findings and recommendations
of such study;
(ii) on the basis of such study and exchange of views,
establish a rolling five-year road maintenance
program, including the amounts to be allocated
annually for its execution, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association; and


﻿-7-
(iii) thereafter, not later than four months before the
beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower
until five years after completion of the Project,
exchange views with the Association on the updating
of such program, including its extension to cover
an additional year, and the measures taken or to be
taken for its execution during such fiscal year.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such measures as may
be necessary to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of
vehicles using its highways and roads are consistent with the
design standards of such highways and roads.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain a suitable traffic
data collection system to assist in the improvement and
development of its highway and road network.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date a&A021      /160/is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obliSations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 (a), 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             FINANCE
Lilongwe                            4407 MI
For the Association:
Irternational Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     13,160,000       80%
under Part A of
the Project
(2) Civil works under                1,370,000       60%
Part B (i) (a) of
the Project
(3) Civil works under
Parts B (i) (b)
and D of the
Project:
(a) under contracts               840,000       70%
(b) force account                 510,000       70%
(4)  Civil works under                 680,000       75% of incre-
Part B (i) (c)                                  mental ex-
of the Project                                  penditures
during the
first mainte-
nance year,
50% of such
expenditures
during the
second main-
tenance year,
and 25% of
such expendi-
tures during
the third
maintenance
year


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Vehicles, equip-                               100% of for-
ment and spare                                eign expendi-
parts:                                        tures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) for Part B                   740,000
(i) of the
Project
(b) for other Parts              170,000
of the Project
(6) Consultants'                                   85%
services:
(a) for Part A                   840,000
of the Project
(b) for Part B                   930,000
of the Project
(c) for Part C                   420,000
of the Project
(d) for Part E                   190,000
of the Project
(7) Training under Part E              50,000      100% of foreign
of the Project                                expenditures
(8) Unallocated                     6,000,000
TOTAL               25,900,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "incremental expenditures" means, in respect
of each district of the Borrower included in Part B (i) (c) of
the Project, district road maintenance expenditures in such
district during any fiscal year of the Borrower over and above
the total amount of such expenditures in such district during
the Borrower's fiscal year 1980/81; and
(d) the term "first maintenance year" means, in respect of
each such district, the Borrower's fiscal year during which road
maintenance under Part B (i) (c) of the Project starts in such
district, and the terms "second maintenance year" and "third
maintenance year" mean, for such district, the following two
fiscal years of the Borrower, respectively.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $350,000 in respect of Category (3) and in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $230,000 in respect of Subcategory
(6) (b), may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1980.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category or Subcategory
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or Subcategory, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category
or Subcategory, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category or Subcategory and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
or Subcategory may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to continue the upgrading of the
Borrower's main North - South road (Chitipa - Nsanje), to improve
the maintenance of the Borrower's road network and the facilities
for training of its road sector personnel, and to strengthen the
Borrower's institutions in charge of transport sector planning.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Main Road Construction and Improvement
(i) Construction of two-lane paved roads between Jenda
and Luwawa Turnoff (about 32 km) and Mbowe and
Ekwendeni (about 37 km).
(ii) Improvement and upgrading of the road between Luwawa
Turnoff and Mbowe (about 100 km) to all-weather gravel
standard.
Part B:   District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
(i) A second phase of the Borrower's district roads improve-
ment and maintenance program (DRIMP), to be extended
to cover ten additional districts of the Borrower,
including:
(a) the improvement of a total of about 2,600 km of
district roads in said districts;
(b) the establishment and equipping of a road
maintenance unit in each of said districts,
including the construction of depots and of housing
for key staff, and staff training; and
(c) initial operation of such units to maintain the
roads improved under Part B (i) (a) of the Project,
and maintenance of the roads improved under the
First Phase of DRIMP.
(ii) Preparation of a third phase of the Borrower's district
roads improvement and maintenance program.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:   General Road Maintenance
(i) A comprehensive study of the maintenance needs of all
road classes, the capacity of MOWS and the Borrower's
district councils to satisfy such needs and the
resources available or to be made available for this
purpose.
(ii) Provision of additional road maintenance equipment to
MOWS to be used, in particular, for minor repairs
of bituminous pavements.
Part D:   Training Facilities
An initial phase of the relocation of the MOWS training
center to Lilongwe, including the construction and equipping of
staff housing and classrooms, and dormitories with a capacity
for about 25 trainees.
Part E:   Transport Sector Planning
Strengthening of the EPD unit responsible for the planning
and coordination of transport sector policies and investments,
including training abroad of about 3 staff members for such
unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, civil works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A nf the
Guidelines.
2.   For civil works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the civil
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any civil
works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Part D of the Project and for the
construction of depots and staff housing under Part B (i) of the
Project may be carried out under contracts procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and spare
parts for Part B (i) of the Project shall be procured on the basis
of negotiated contract extensions from manufacturers supplying


﻿- 16 -
such vehicles and equipment for the First Phase of DRIMP to ensure
standardization, or on the basis of a solicitation of price
quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and spare
parts for Parts of the Project other than Parts A and B shall be
procured on the basis of a solicitation of price quotations from
at least three suppliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail
of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request; in the


﻿- 17 -
case of contracts for Part A of the Project, such report shall be
prepared by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and include the recommendations for award of said
consultants.   The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change orders under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 18 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   Civil works referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of this
Schedule may be carried out by force account by MOWS under
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works under Parts B (i) (a) and (c) of the Project
shall be carried out by force account by MOWS and the District
Councils, respectively, under procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for the Road Works Under Part A of the Project
(Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement)
A. Design Standards for Paved Roads
(Part A(i) of the Project)
1.   Design Speed (km/hr)                      80
2.   Minimum Radius of Curvature (m)          215
3.   Maximum Gradient (%)                       6.0
4.   Pavement Width (m)                         6.7
5.   Roadway Width (m)                          9.7
6.   Pavement Type:
Subbase: Natural Gravel
Base:     Natural Gravel or Crushed Stone
Surface: Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
7.   Pavement Design Method: Accumulated Equivalent Standard
Axle Loadings
8.   Structures: Width: Equal to Roadway Width + 2 x 0.6 m
footpaths
Design Loading: According to British
Standard 153
B. Design Standards for Improved Gravel Road
(Part A (ii) of the Project)
1.   Design Speed (km/hr)                      50
2.   Minimum Radius of Curvature (m)           75
3.   Maximum Gradient for Gravel (%)            7.0
(Steeper Slopes to be Provided with
Single Bituminous Surface Treatment)
4.   Minimum Pavement Width (m)                 5.0
5.   Minimum Roadway Width (m)                  7.0
6.   Gravel Surface Thickness (m)               0.15
7.   Width of Subsurface Structures:           Equal to Roadway
Width


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY


