Document of
The World Bank
IFOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqpt No.P-4067-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 200.0 MILLION
TO
REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL S. A.
FOR A
FEDERAL RAILWAY-EXPORT CORRIDOR- PROJECT
May 9, 1985
T   domet hs a resricted dbibutim ad may be ued by recWits may in the rformce of
"r oefid atie. lbs co.teas qy nut oderwise be discdod withw Wodd Bak a=uhrftin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                                                  April 30,- 1985
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$1,952                              US$1 = Cr$4,850.00
Cr$1 = US$0.000512                           Cr$1 - US$.00021
The exchange rate used for parposes of project cost estimates and financial
forecasts was the March 1985 average rate of US$1 = Cr$4,162.00
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
AGEF            Armazens Gerais Ferroviarios S.A.
Railway's General Warehousing Company
BNDES           Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU            Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
CVRD            Companhia Vale do Rio Dioce
Rio Doce Valley Company
DNER            Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
EBTU           Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EFVM           Estrada de Ferro Vitoria-Minas
Vitoria-Minas Railway Company
FEPASA          Ferrovia Paulista, S.A.
Sao Paulo Railway
C-EIPOT         Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
MIS             Management Information System
MT              Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
OIS             Operations Information System
PORTOBRAS      Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA          Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SEPLAN         Secretaria de Planejamento
Federal Planning Secretariat
SUNAMAM        Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Marine
TORs           Terms of Reference



RR==
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
FEDERAL RAILWX- EmoRT  ORRIDOR - PROJBCr
Loan and Project Sumry
Borrower:       Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (RFFSA)
Guarantor:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:        US$200 million
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Project        The project would provide assistance to RFFSA in the
Description:   implementation of (i) a set of action plans and programs
aimed at its financial rehabilitation and at improving its
commercial performance, and (ii) two rehabilitation and
improvement projects designed to increase transport
efficiency in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais export
corridors. The policy and institutional development
component includes action plans for rationalizing the
railway's operations and network; upgrading tariffs,
marketing and cost control; improving operations and
maintenance efficiency; strengthening planning and
management systems; and improving transport coordination in
the Southeast corridors. The two corridor projects
essentially include the rehabilitation and improvement of
the most critical sections of main lines, of yards, of
workshops and of intermodal facilities.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would be realized by RFFSA in
the form of cost savings on train and yard operations and on
track maintenance, and, because of the competition with the
trucking industry, to a large extent they would have to be
passed over to the users. Substantial benefits would
accrue, in particular, to agriculture and export producers
in the areas of influence of the two corridors. The action
plan component would support the Government and RFFSA's
management efforts to turn the federal railway into a
financially and commercially viable freight carrier.
RRisks:        Project benefits could be affected by lower-than-expected
economic performance, particularly export performance in the
regions served by the two corridors, and by unexpected
-                        delays in the project's implementation.  The project,
however, would stil have an attractive rate of return. An
appropriate project monitoring system would be established
to minimize the risks.
This document ha a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of thei offick.1 duties. Izs contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorizton



(iti)
Estivated Costs:  I/                               -       -U$  Millio n-
Local   Foreign   Total
Railway Policy and Inntitutional
Development Component                           3.4      2.6       6.0
Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor Component            64.8     77.4    142.2
Parana Corridor Component                        81.8     86.0    167.8
Total Base Cost                                    150.0    166.0    316.0
Physical Contingencies                           12.3     12.1      24.4
Price Contingencies                              39.9     41.7      81.6
Total Project Cost                                 202.2    219.8    422.0
Total Financing Required                           202.2    219.8    422.0
Financiug Plau                                     -      US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBID                                             22.1    177.9    200.0
BNDES                                            34.1     20.0      54.1
Supplier Credit                                   -        7.6       7.6
RFFSA                                           105.0     13.0    118.0
Government                                       41.0      1.3      42.3
Total                                           202.2    219.8    422.0
Estimted Disbursements:                           US$ Million
Bank FY                              86    87   88   89   90   91   92
Annual:                              25 2/ 25   50   60   30    8    2
Cumulative:                          25    50  100  160  190  198  200
Rate of Retura: About 21%, based on an evaluation of the two corridor
components which represent 98% of total project cosc.
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$58.2 million.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXEaJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$200.0 MILLION
TO REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL, S.A.
FOR A FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A. CRFFSA) with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$200.0 million to
help finaace a Federal Railway - Export Corridor - Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECNOKY
2.        An economic report entitled 'Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
F-gueiredo completed his six-year term in office. The main economic
priorities of the Figueiredo Administration included the growth of
agriculture, the expansion of manufactured exports and reduced dependence
on imported oil, and at the same time an improvement in the situation and
prospects of the most economically disadvantaged people and regions,
especially in the Northeast. The prime political concern during this
period was the return to a fully democratic system of government. Much of
the Government's attention, after 1980, had to be diverted from longer-term
political and economic change because of the stabilization problems
confronting Brazil. In spite of the economic recession and consequent
social pressures, however, substantial progress has been made towards the
structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Dr. Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office
on schedule presented a crisis for the new Government. With the death of
Dr. Neves in late April, Vice-President Jose Sarney became President and
now faces the tasks of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Neves and
attaining broad popular support. The new Government has indicated that its
primary economic goal will be to restore the country's economic growth in
order to expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the
labor force, improve social services, and bring about a more equitable
distribution of income. The Government also recognizes that for this



growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to control inflation, put the
finances of the public sector on a sound footing, and overcome constraints
on growth luposed by the balance of payments.
Poverty hiavtaton
5.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade bas made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much government attention. Increased government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage cervices. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demograplic concensus, of substantial living
standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute
real income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income
gains, as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
some of these gains may have been seriously eroded in the recent crisis.
Recent Economic Performuce
6.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but i-- greatly changed circumstauces.  Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increa-sed, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 1101.
7.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, rhe



- 3 -
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983 the IHf pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the
Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Assoclated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, the reschedulling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and the
commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
d.        The primary objective of the program has been the reduction of
the current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The
cruzeiro, which is pegged to the US dollar, was devalued by 30Z in February
1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation. Import
restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal and monetary restraints were
imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and exports increased by 8.5% in
spite of adverse trading circumstances, resulting in a trade surplus of
US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the current account deficit from US$14.8
billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 52 of GDP) to US$6.2 billion. In
1984, these trends continued, with the complete elimination of the current
account deficit in the balance of payments. Accordingly, in a period of
two years Brazil achieved an external adjustment equivalent to over 5Z of
GDP.
9.        At the same time, the major source of internal disequilibrium,
the public sector deficit, was also brought under better control. Central
Bank figures show that the consolidated operational public sector deficit
was reduced from 6.6Z of GDP in 1982 to 2.5% in 1983; a small surplus was
planned for 1984 but recent information indicates that a signifi ant
deficit remains. Steps were taken to eliminate product and interest rate
subsidies, adjust relative prices for fuel and other publicly administered
products, redu-e public expenditures and increase revenues. Thus, although
inflation has not abated, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$27 billion and a
trade surplus amounting to over US$13 billion.
10.       The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop
shortages, increases in administered prices, very high real interest rates,
and the effects of devaluation. GDP fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the
greatest reductions concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors.
On that basis, per capita GDP declined by over 12% during 1981-83. For
that period industrial employment fell by over 20Z, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers.
11.       The balance-of-payments performance in 1984 was highly positive.
An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total



exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion.
12.      Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, however, which can be expected to continue until there is some
relaxation in the present austere demand management policies. In
particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized until real
interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
13.      Building upon the favorable 1984 results, Brazil's overall
external economic prospects continue to be positive for 1985 and 1986.
The international reserve situation is the strongest in many years, with
the Central Bank's cash position currently reported to be more than US$8
billion. Such reserve levels would allow for considerable contingencies in
the balance-of-payments for 1985 and beyond. In addition, as compared with
1984, some aspects of the international economic situation appear
encouraging; both international interest rates and oil prices have shown
some declines. It should be noted in this respect that a chanRge of 1% in
average interest rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about
US$750 million. Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual
oil prices bas an impact of about US$300 million on the trade balance.
14.       Exports in the first quarter of 1985, however, were 12% lower
than in the same period of 1984. Reasons for this poorer export
performance appear to include slower growth in the United States, some
appreciation of the cruzeiro against currencies other than the US dollar,
the phasing out of a fiscal subsidy for manufactured exports, the removal
of credit incentives for exports, a severe shortage of export credit, and
the imposition of tighter import restrictions in several partner
countries. The Government is aware of the problem and is taking remedial
measures in those areas in which it can act. These measures include the
earmarking of some credit resources for export production and a
modification in the exchange rate rules, which, should the monthly
inflation rates continue to fall (as in April, when price controls were
tightened), will result in an effective depreciation of the currency.
Moreover, the recent decline of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis
European currencies should also strengthen Brazilian international
competitiveness.
15.       In spite of the improved production performance in 1984, domestic
economic prospects are clouded by inflation, which remains a critical
issue, and reducing it under the current system of indexation and in the
context of very resilient inflationary expectations is proving to be
exceedingly difficult. Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce



5-
inflation, does of course mitigate some of the adverse economic and social
effects commonly associated wlth it. A major challenge for the new
Government will be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen
inflationary expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and
consistent midium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible
short-term economic program will be essential. In the imcediate future
this would have to include, inter alia, a substantial reduction of the
pulblic sector deficit.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery. This will depend
both upon the economic policies pursued by the Government and a number of
external economic factors outside the control of Brazilian policy-1akers.
The levels of international interest rates and of oil prices, resumed
growth in the OECD, the avoidance of additional trade barrieca for Brazil 's
exports, and the availability of modest net amounts of external financing,
are all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will depend upon the
conduct of national economic pulicies by the new Government. The present
situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term scrategy for
structural adjustment and economic recovery. This st.ategy is expected to
focus on further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, an
improved allocation of economic resources, reduced inflation, increased
investment and savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
17.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surplums of 1983
and 1984. Total medium- and long-term debt is projected to grow, in
nominal terms, at an annual rate of 4.3Z from 1985 to 1990, slightly below
the projected rate of international inflation. The projections assume that
gross disbursements would rise from US$14.8 billion in 1985 to about US$20
billion in 1990, in current prices, and amortization from US$11 billion to
about US$15 billion in the same period, with net disbursements averaging
approximately US$4.5 billion annual±j. For private M&LT debt, the
projections are consistent with reductions of total real commercial bank
exposure in Brazil and a reduced share of Brazilian loans in total
commercial bank lending portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new lending
will be required for the foreseeable future.
18.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. With the base case projections,
interest payments would fall from 37% of exports iu 1984 to about 21% in
1990. Also, the total debt service ratio is projected to fall from 72% in
1984 to about 48% in 1990. In the short run, debt service payments would
reach levels threatening the present recovery, without the debt
rescheduling for which negotiations, initiated by the previous Government,
have still to be completed. The projections thus assume that the debt
repayments due during the next five years would be either rescheduled or
compensated by equivalent new loans, included in the gross capital inflows



- 6 -
referred to in paragraph 17. The projections assume, conservatively, that
the terms of the rescheduling and/or of the new loans would be similar to
those obtained for 1984. The total external debt as a multiple of total
goods and non-factor service exports is projected to decline continually,
after having reached a high of 3.4 in 1982.
19.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies (including policies
which, inter alia, result in the growth of manufactured exports of 6%
annually in real terms between 1985 and 1990), and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4% in 1985 to over 7% in 1990. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of near 3.5%
annually is projected. Even so, it would not be. until 1988 that the 1980
level of per capita income would be restored. Sensitivity analysis with
the balance-of-payments projections, including a scenario with interrupted
OECD recovery and continued high international interest rates, indicates
that, even if international trade conditions are less favorable, and net
capital inflow substantially smaller than assumed in the above projections,
Brazil still should be able to achieve equilibrium in its external
accounts, while maintaining positive economic growth rates, albeit lower
than would be required to obtain a sizeable reduction of unemployment
levels.
20.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international conditions. Nevertheless,
some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of Brazilian development
strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon the country's success
in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness of the external
constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period 1984-90 will be more
modest t±l-n during the 1970s. Under such circumstances, slew growth in
employment opportunities emerges as a potentially serious pToblem. Third,
to sustain that more modest rate of growth will require both a continued
net inflow of external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly
improved savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the
clear difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has
the economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work '.s way out
of the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil is
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes
indicated above.
PART 11 - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZJI
21.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 136 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,866.7 million (net of cancellations), of which 64 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of March 31, 1985 was US$3,560.3 million. Annex II ccntains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.



- 7 -
22.       Over the FY77-83 periodt Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and msintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Four loans totalling
US$494.7 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project, and two loans totalling
US$122.7 million for rural development projects in the Northeast of
Brazil. Work is advanced for a technical assistance and pilot rural water
supply and sanitation project, for two power projects and for a land
titling project in the Northeast.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,030.41 million, of which US$676.92 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$353.49 million, US$270.18 million
represent loans and US$83.31 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external finan ing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and



rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth.  One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth. The proposed loan would
contribute to efficient resource use in the transport sector and to
facilitating exports, especially the export of grain and industrial
products from the areas of influence of the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais
corridors.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in m dium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,



-9-
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazll and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial comunulty as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation bas helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
ART III -  HE TRANSPORT SECTO.
Sectoral Context
31.       Brazil's rapid economic growth throughout the 1960. and the
1970s, including the development of widely spread agricultural &ad mineral
resources and the geographically concentrated industrial base, led to
unprecedented increases in transport needs.  The Federal Government s main
objective in the transport sector has been to expand the capacity of the
system in line with demand growth. Mass:Lve public sector investments have
been made in the transport infrastructure, accounting for almoet 20% of
total public investment in the lid-1970s. Until 1973-1974, the largest
share of the federal investments in transport was directed to the
construction and paving of a network of primary highways. The sudden
increase in petroleum prices led the Federal Government to put more
emphasis upon the development of rail and water transport. Large railway
investments were undertaken, in conjunction with ambitious plans for the
expansion of the steel industry, at a time of favorable prospects in the
iron ore and steel markets.   In addition to coal and ore terminalm, grain
terminals were built as outlets to the main export corridors in the South
and the Southeast. Considerable efforts were made to develop a national
merchant marine fleet for both ocean and coastal shipping, and a domestic
ship-building industry. Programs were started to increase the capacity of
the suburban commuter systems in the main cities.



- 10 -
32.       Transport policy in the first half of the 1980B has been shaped
by the Government's austerity program. Public investments in the sector
have been scaled down drastically; in 1984, federal investments in
transport were about half thelr.1976 level in real terms. The completion
of the "Ferrovia do Ago" railway line has been postponed; the only
significant railway investment has been for the integrated Carajas iron ore
project (Loan 2196-BR) of the large mining group Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
(CVRD). highway construction has been limited to the recently completed
Northwest Highway (Loan 2062-BR). Port investments were geared essentially
to the completion of the Sepetiba ore terminal and of two integrated
industrial projects, the Tubarao steel mill and the Albras-Alunorte
aluminium projects. The programs for improving commuter services in the
main cities were continued, but at a slower pace. Although the emphasis
gradually shifted from new construction to maintenance and to the
rehabilitation of essential facilities, in particular those necessary to
the country's exports and to agricultural development, the lack of
resources led to the postponement of needed maintenance and rehabilitation
works sectorwide.
33.       Transport output has been growing at rates higher than GDP during
the past two decades: total freight traffic increased at an average 8.5%
p.a. and inter-city passenger traffic at about 13% p.a., whereas GDP grew
at an average 7.52 p.a. In 1981-1983, however, GDP declined and so did
freight traffic, whereas passenger traffic continued to grow, but at a much
slower pace. In 1984, the incipient economic recovery, according to
preliminary estimates, brought freight traffic back to its highest level of
1980, an increase of more than 10% over its 1983 level. Road transport is
the dominant mode; it is estimated to carry about 60% of total freight and
97% of inter-city passengers. The railways have succeeded in increasing
their share in the freight traffic from about 17% of total ton-km in the
early 1960s to about 23% in the early 1980s, increasingly specializing in
fewer commodities and longer hauls. Coastal shipping, virtually stagnant
for many years until 1973, then developed at an annual rate of about 8%,
specializing in liquid- and dry-bulk cargoes, and Brazilian flag
participation in foreign trade increased markedly. Inland water transport,
although not very significant countrywide, is important in the Amazon basin
and has developed recently in the Rio Grande corridor.
Sector Management
34.       Public sector investments in the 1960s and 1970s were accompanied
by the development of large subsectoral autonomous agencies and public
enterprises under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport (MT). Most
regional railways were regrouped into a federal railway company (RFFSA),
and into the State of Sao Paulo railway (FEPASA), with the exception of the
Vitoria-Minas Gerais railway (EFVM) owned by CVRD.  The National Highway
Department (DNER) expanded rapidly with the construction of the federal
highway network, and state highway agencies (DERs) in the more developed
states also grew quickly. The port administration was reorganized with the
creation of PORTOBRAS, a federally-owned holding company which controls
individual port companies and agencies. The National Merchant Marine
Superintendency (SUNAMAM), responsible for administering the shipping
subsector, was also charged with monitoring large Government-supported
shipbuilding programs. The Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation (EBTU)
was created to manage federal investments for urban transport.



- 11 -
35.       Sinc_ these entities, particularly for their investments, were
funded mostly with tax revenues earmarked for specific purposes, more
attention tended to be paid to the achievement of physical targets than to
sound economic and financial planning.   A transport planning and
coordination agency (GEIPOT) was established under MT to formulate sector
policies and to assist the agencies in preparing subsectoral plans and
pre-investment studies.  GEIPOT grew rapidly as an independent public
enterprise, operating increasingly under specific-purpose contracts with MT
and its agencies, and its role progressively became that of an outside
consultant/research institution. Neither MT nor its modal agencies,
however, developed sufficient in-house planning capabilities to direct
GEIPOT's work toward well defined planning objectives or to integrate
GEIPOT's plans and recommendations into a continuous planning and
coordination process. MT needs to concentrate more upon policy formulation
and the coordination of the agencies' plans and strategies than upon
specific investment and operational decisions. The modal agencies need to
strengthen their in-house planning and management capabilities to develop
and monitor appropriate strategic plans. The Federal Highway Sector
Project (Loan 2446-BR) supports these objectives in the highway subsector;
the proposed project would help to strengthen RFFSA's planning and
management, as well as its management autonomy, and to support a transport
coordination action program focusing upon the Southeast corridors.
36.       Financing policies in the sector have reflected Government
efforts to contain inflation through price control. The centrally
controlled tariffs of the revenue-earning entities have generally been
adjusted in line with inflation; still, revenues from many public transport
services have remained well below costs, and the Government has had to
cover substantial (although reducing) operating deficits. Central control
over investments has L2en gradually restored with t..- dismantling of ta_.
earmarking, but, at the same time, the Government's efforts to reduce
public deficits have led most sector entities to rely essentially upon
borrowing to finance their investments. The service requirements of these
borrowings have reached practically unmanageable levels for many entities,
and the Government has had to assume the debt obligations. New pricing
policies are needed to restore the financial situation of the public
enterprises, including their ability to generate the necessary savings to
finance essential investments in the sector.
37.       Brazil 's energy strategy in the transport sector has emphasized
substitution of domestically produced alcohol for gasoline as well as
programs to relieve urban congestion through traffic management and through
improvement of suburban rail systems. Although attempts to attenuate the
impact of the 1979 oil price increases and of the 1983 major devaluation of
the cruzeiro upon domestic prices of petroleum products resulted in
temporary subsidies to consumers of diesel oil, in particular, the
Government has, since late 1983, been keeping consumer prices of gasohol
and diesel oil, net of local distribution costs and retailers' margins,
well above border prices. This strategy has been successful in reducing
gasoline consumption, but the consumption of diesel oil has continued to
increase. The Government recently put more emphasis upon conservation of
diesel oil, chrough continued increases in diesel prices and through



- 12 -
programs to promote efficiency in the road transport industry; these
efforts are supported by the Bank under the Federal Highway Sector Project
(Loan 2446-BR). The proposed project would also contribute to this
objective, from a fuel-efficiency point of view, through improving the
intermodal allocation of cargoes in the two corridors, and through
strengthening intermodal coordination in the Southeast.
38.       Transport policy in the second half of the 1980s should, in line
with broader efforts to achieve the necessary structural adjustment and
sustain the incipient economic recovery, aim to improve the performance and
finances of the public entities in the sector, as well as to support other
important country objectives related to export expansion, agricultural
growth and energy conservation. In order to achieve more efficient
resource use in the sector, further efforts should be made to rationalize
the operations, and to improve the pricing and marketing policies, of the
public enterprises through greater reliance upon commercially oriented
activities, and to strengthen their planning, management, and operations.
Emphasis should be put upon facilitating exports, particularly by improving
operational efficiency in the export corridors and in the port systems, and
by ensuring adequate transport in the agricultural regions. Public
investment should be focused upon the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
essential facilities, rather than new construction, and upon cost-effective
projects which generate quick returns, espe.ially foreign exchange earnings
and/or savings. The Bank's strategy for the transport sector supports
these objectives; its implementation would be continued with the project as
well as through sector dialogue with the new Government.
The Federal Railway
39.       The federal railway company, RFFSA, was created in 1957 as a
public corporation under the jurisdiction of the Hinistry of Transport,
combining 18 formerly independent railway companies. RFFSA operates
freight and inter-city passenger rail services on a network of about 23,000
km in length, which essentially serves the more developed regions of
Southeastern and Southern Brazil, as well as part of the Northeast. RFFSA
was also responsible, until recently, for operating rail commuter services
in several major cities, but responsibility for these services was
transferred, during 1984, to the newly created Brazilian Urban Train
Company (CBTU) following an early 1984 Government decision to separate the
socially oriented commuter operation from the rest of RFFSA.
40.       RFFSA's traffic has increased substantially over the past two
decades, particularly in the bulk commodities and longer hauls for which
the railway has comparative advantage over road transport. Freight traffic
increased at an average 13.7% p.a. in ton-km between 1972 and 1980, then
decreased by a total 10% in 1981-1983, essentially as a result of the
reduced international demand for iron ore; it rose 14Z in 1984, reaching
about 77 million tons and 34 billion ton-km. Freight traffic is expected
to continue growing in the future, although at a slower pace than in the
past. Prospects are good for RFFSA to improve its participation in the
increasing demand for transport of export and agricultural products.
RFFSA's inter-city passenger traffic has been decreasing since 1958, and it
is the Government and RFFSA's objective to reduce it further by eliminating
the nonremunerative services.



- 13 -
41.       While RFFSA's financial performance has been improving steadily
over the past five years (the working deficits turned into a working
surplus in 1984 and the operating deficits, which include depreciation,
reduced by about 73Z from 1979), the railways still have to depend upon
Government subsidies to cover operating deficits, to service debts and to
undertake capital investments. Although the financial improvements were
somewhat exaggerated by deferring msintenance works and by the insufficient
indexing of asset values, significant progress has been made in reducing
the railways' work force and the nonremunerative inter-city passenger
services, and, to a lesser extent, in rationalizing freight services and
closing nonremunerative lines.  Because of Government control, RFFSA has
not been able to adjust its tariffs beyond inflation for appropriate
cost-recovery or to rationalize its freight services and network as fast as
would have been desirable. As a first step to remedy this situation, a 10%
real tariff increase was authorized in February 1985 by the Government.
The project would include further tariff measures (para. 51). Also,
investment decisions were often made at the Government level, without
RFFSA's priorities and capacity to invest being taken into funi account;
and the heavy reliance upon borrowings, together with the rapid devaluation
of the cruzeiro, drove RFFSA's debt obligations to a practically
unmanageable level.
42.       To alleviate the situation, the Government, through a
Presidential Decree issued on December 4, 1984, assumed as capital
contribution the railway's debts incurred until the end of 1984 and
established a commercial framework for the future operation of RFFSA. Mhe
Decree provides the railway with: (a) tariff freedom from 1988 and a
guarantee that, until then, at least the real values of its current tariffs
would be maintained; (b) a legal framework for normalization payments to
RFVRA whic' ---sist of comnensation fnr losses on not commercially viable
lines and s. rvi:es operated at the Government's request; (c) fu,;
responsibilil: tor formulating corporate investment plans based on the
company's priorities and consistent with its capacity to invest; and (d)
responsibility for closure of the not commercially viable lines and
services which are not subject to normalization payments. Although RFFSA,
to a certain extent, would still be an instrument of the Ministry of
Transport to implement Government policies in the subsector, the Decree
provides the company with a solid basis for wide management autonomy,
together with the other necessary prerequisites for a commercially viable
operation.
Bank Experience in the Sector
43.       Bef*-e the mid-1970s, the Bank's primary concern in the transport
sector was to support Government efforts to expand the capacity of the
system in line with demand growth. From 1968 to 1975, the Bank made five
loans totaling US$376 million for highways, three loans totaling US$296
million for ra41ways, and one loan of US$45 million to help finance the
construction ;- a container terminal at the Santos port.  Through these
projects, the Bank contributed particularly to the development of Brazil's
network of primary highways and to substantial improvements in the
operations of the railways. After 1975, Bank lending emphasized a shift,
in the highway subsector, from highway construction to maintenance and
rehabilitation, and to the improvement and construction of feeder roads to



- 14 -
support agricultural development. Since that shift, the Bank has rade two
loans (Highways VI, US$114 million, 1979, and Federal Highway Sector,
US$210 million, 1984) for highway rehabilitation and maintenance; three
loans totaling US$319 million for feeder roads programs, managed by
Brazil's National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), which
provide financial and technical assistance to the states and municipalities
for constructing and improving feeder roads; and a loan of US$240 million
(Northwest Highway, 1981) to finance the highway and feeder roads
components of a comprehensive program for the development of the Northwest
Region. The Bank is also supporting feeder roads improvement and
maintenance through components of 13 ongoing agricultural or rural
development projects. The Bank has made a loan of US$159 million for the
construction of a suburban rail mass transit system (Second Urban
Transport-Porto Alegre-Project, 1980), and it is helping to finance the
construction of an 890-km long railroad in Northern Brazil as part of the
Carajas Iron Ore Project.
44.       The Bank's association with RFFSA dates back to 1971 when the
first Bank loan (Loan 786-BR, for US$46 million) was made to help finance
the rail component of an iron ore mining project in Minas Gerais. The Bank
approved a second loan to RFFSA in 1975 (Loan 1074-BR for US$175 million)
to finance a portion of its 1975-1979 investment plan. A project
performance audit report for the first project concluded that it was
completed successfully.'/ The second project completion report was issued
on June 22, 1983. The program which the project supported had a large
number of individual projects in many areas of the railway, for a total
estimated cost of US$3.2 billion, and was too large for the railway to
implement; there.ore, many components had to be postponed. Further,
although achievements were significant regarding the institutional
developiont of RFFSA, the project's objectives for broader policy reforms
involving the Government were largely unattained. The design of the
proposed project has been influenced significantly by this experience. In
particular, the investment component has been limited to two projects of
high priority in RFFSA's plan, and the policy and institutional development
component has been designed to support the full implementation of the
policy decisions made through the December 4, 1984 Presidential Decree.
PART IV - THE PROJEcT
45.       The main purpose of the project is tne financial rehabilitation
and the establishment of RFFSA as a commercially oriented freight railway.
The priucipal policy and institutional measures necessary, which had been
under discussion among the Government, RFFSA, and the Bank for almost three
years, have recently been taken, in particular through the Presidential
Decree issued December 4, 1984. The project is designed to provide vital
support to RFFSA and the Government in implementing these measures, as well
as in improving transport efficiency in the two export corridors of Parana
and Goias-Minas Gerais. The project was appraised in November-December
1/ Issued with Secretary's Memorandum M-83-59 of January 14, 1983.



- 15 -
1984 and negotiations were held from April 22-26, 1985; the Brazilian
Delegation was led by Ms. Bette Antunes, of the Ministry of Planning.
Special conditions are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale
46.       The objectives of the project would be: (a) the financial
rehabilitation and improved commercial performance of the federal railway;
and (b) increased transport efficiency in the two export corridors of
Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais. By achieving these objectives, the project
would contribute to more efficient resource use in the transport sector,
particularly through further specializing the railway in the services for
which it has comparative advantage over road transport, and to reducing
public sector deficits. It would also contribute to facilitating exports,
especially the export of grains and grain products from the states of
Parana and Mato Grosso do Sul, and from the 'Cerrados region of Goias and
Minas Gerais, as well as the export of various industrial products.   In
addition to supporting the economic rationale of the project, which is
consistent with the raticale underlying Brazil's stabilization program,
the Bank would, in extending the loan, provide support to RFFSA and the
Government to gradually turn the federal railway, through the
implementation of a set of policies and action plans, into a commercially
viable freight carrier.
Project Description
47.       The project would include a policy and institutional development
(action plan) component, addressing companywide and sectoral issues, and an
investment component consisting of the two export corridor projects.
(1) The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan
48.       The policy and institutional development compnnent would consist
of the implementation of policies and action plans for: (a) cost savings,
rationalization of the railway's operations and networL, and normalization
of the not commercially viable lines and services; (b' tariff restructuring
and adjustments, and upgrading of cost accounting and marketing; (c) opera-
tions and maintenance efficiency improvements; (d) strengthening of RFFSA's
planning and management systems and training of management staff; and
(e) improving transport (and inter-railroad) coordination in the Southeast
corridors.
49.       The cost-savings and normalization action plan, which aims toward
gradually rationalizing the railway's operations and network, would consist
of withdrawals (and frequency reductions) of not commercially viable
passenger services; the withdrawal of all services on, and closure of,
not commercially viable lines; and a program of specialization,
consolidation and closure of railway stations and terminals. A special
program would be implemented in the Northeast region to reduce the regional
superintendency's deficit through further cost-saving measures,
particularly related to the organization and management of operations and
maintenance. RFTSA would: (a) between July 1, 1985 and June 30, 1986,
close not less than 1,500 km of not commercially viable lines and reduce
passenger train services by not less than I million train-km; (b) implement



- 16 -
an operations rationalization program in the Northeast region as per terms
of reference (TORs) and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank, and each
year reduce the superintendency's total operating cost (excluding
depreciation) by at least 2.5%, so that, in 1989, it should be at least 13%
less than in 1984; and (c) implement a station consolidation and closure
program in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais corridors and prepare to
extend the program to its entire network, as per TORs and time schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 5, para. l(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
50.       The system of normalization payments would be upgraded to promote
efficiency, in particular cost savings, in the operation of the not
commercially viable lines and services which the Government requires RFFSA
to maintain temporarily, and to allow the Government and RFFSA to annually
review the need to maintain such lines and services, and to implement and
monitor service and line closures: (a) RFFSA would annually review the
operational and financial results of its individual lines and services,
establish their commercial viability, and prepare cost-tariff revenue
forecasts for the not commercially viable lines and services; (b) the
Government would, on that basis and prior to July 31 of each year, define
the lines and services it would require RFFSA to maintain during the
following year, agree with RFFSA on the corresponding nor.alization
payments, and arrange for the necessary budget appropriations and payments;
and (c) RFFSA would, within one month, inform the Bank of the decisions
taken, forward the supporting documentation for review and comment, and
undertake to close its not commercially viable lines and services other
than those under (b) prior to year end (Schedule 5, para. l(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Government normalization payments to RFFSA, expressed as
a percentage of RFFSA's total operating revenues, would be contained each
year until 1989 below designated percentages (12% in 1989), and kept
decreasing thereafter, through appropriate closures of not commercially
viable lines and services (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
51.       The costing, tariff and marketing action plan would consist of
upgrading RFFSA's cost-accounting and tariff systems with a view toward
providing a sufficient basis to develop and implement appropriate marketing
strategies and effective management control. RFFSA's tariff structure
would be reformulated; in the short term, no freight would be carried at
less than its avoidable cost, and for traffic with long-term prospects
RFFSA would at least recover average costs. The new tariff structure would
also provide the necessary incentives to achieve RFFSA's corporate
objectives, in particular those related to operational rationalization,
traffic consolidation, operation of more unit-through-trains, and phasing
oct of nonremunerative services. RFFSA would: (a) by the end of 1985,
recover at least the total working costs of transporting wheat, soya, corn,
fertilizers and cement; (b) complete a costing and marketing study covering
its 13 most important products, and, based upon the results, develop,
forward to the Bank for comment prior to July 15, 1985, and thereafter
implement a plan to recover, by the end of 1986, the relevant working and
administrative costs plus depreciation and interest on rolling stock; (c)
upgrade its cost-accounting system and put it into operation prior to the
end of 1986; and (d) develop a new tariff structure, and put it into effect
not later than January 1, 1988, as per TORs satisfactory to the Bank
(Schedule 5, para. 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
52.       The operations and maintenance action plan would aim toward
upgrading management systems for operations, locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance, and track maintenance. The operations program would include
the appropriate development of RFFSA's (computerized) operations
information system (OIS), integrating it with the other management
information and control systems (MIS) into a teleprocessing network, and a
reorganization of operations to strengthen interregional coordination. The
action program for locomotive and rolling stock maintenance would consist
of consolidating workshops and servicing facilities in the two corridors
and of designing a plan to consolidate workshops companywide and to
implement a component-exchange program for locomotive repairs. Also, a
(computerized) MIS would be developed to help planning, programing,
budgeting and monitoring track maintenance. RFFSA would: (a) prepare an
operations management development master plan as per TORs satisfactory to
the Bank, present it to the Bank for comments not later than the end of
1985, and implement it thereafter; and (b) implement a locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance action program and a track maintenance action
program as per TORs and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 5,
para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The planning and management development action plan would aim
toward (a) introducing strategic planning and preparing RFFSA's corporate
plan; {b) upgrading management information and control systems; and (c)
training management, in particular middle-management staff, in related
planning and management techniques and in the efficient utilization of the
systems. The strategic planning action program would focus upon a more
explicit definition of the railway's objectives and policies, in line with
the recent Presidential Decree; upon disseminating appropriate planning
techniques, particularly for investment and action program design and
evaluation; and upon preparing (and updating) RFFSA'S corporate plan. The
MNb developakIe>sr action program wouLu focus upon upgrading information,
monitoring and evaluation systems, including budgetary and cost-control
systems, and upon disseminating project and task management techniques.
Also, a project monitoring system would be established specifically for the
project. The management training program would include advanced in-service
training for about 200 middle-level and senior-level managers of the head
office and regional superintendencies in the areas of corporate planning,
project monitoring and evaluation, operations and maintenance management,
marketing and cost-control, information and human resources management, and
the training of about 20 instructors. The program would be implemented
through specialized training centers in Brazil and in other countries, and
through seminars conducted by management training specialists. RFFSA
would: (a) implement the planning and management development action plan
as per TORs and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; (b) regularly
update its pluriannual investment plan into a rolling plan through
systematic investment evaluations and review of priorities made in
accordance with technical, economic and financial methods and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) refrain from undertaking any investment
unless it is justified according to the above-mentioned methods and
criteria; and (d) exchange views with the Bank each calendar year on its
investment and financing plans (Schedule 5, para. 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 18 -
54.       The transport coordination - Southeast corridors - program would
aim toward strengtlening coordination among the three rr,-ilway companies
(RFFSA, FEPASA and EFVM) and the port companies in the Southeast region, as
well as shipping lines, and would focus upon developing and implementing
coordinated strategies for operations, marketing and development, with a
view to promote competitive multimodal railway-based transport ser ices and
to make the best possible use of existing facilities (Section 3.01(a) of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
(Ii) TLe Export Corridor Projects
55.       The investment component (the Goias-Minas Gerais and the Parana
corridor projects) would include: (a) rehabilitation of track infra-
structure and/or superstructure on the most critical sections of the two
corridors; construction, rehabilitation and extension of sidings; and
purchase of track maintenance machinery and plant equipment; (b) improve-
ment of traffic control and telecommunications systems on high traffic
density line sections; (c) rehabilitation and improvement of yards, of
locomotive and rolling stock maintenance workshops, and of servicing
facilities; and (d) improvement of intermodal facilities.
56.       Infrastructure works would include the stabilization of cuts and
embankments, and improvements to drainage systems, on a total of about 650
line-km in the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and 600 line-km in the Parana
corridor; the rehabilitation of bridge structures in both corridors, and of
tunnels in Parana; the lengthening of existing sidings, and construction of
new sidings for improved crossing of trains. Superstructure works would
co.%sist of replacing rails, sleepers, fastenings and/or ballast on a total
of about 650 line-km in the Goias-Minas corridor and 950 line-km in the
Parana czrridor. Microwave telecommunications, and signaling systems
ranging from spring switches and radio-controlled block to relay-
interlocking with supervisory traffic control, would be installed on the
higher traffic density line sections (about 192 km in Minas Gerais and 254
km in Parana). A marshaling yard would be built in each corridor, and
existing ones would be rehabilitated or improved. Some workshop buildings
would be expanded and/or equipped with additional machinery, and new
locomotive fueling and servicing facilities would be built. Eight inter-
modal facilities, consisting of grain silos of static capacities ranging
from 10,000 to 40,000 tons, would be built upcountry on the two corridors
(four on each one) to improve transshipment of grains and grain products
(Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). The necessary detailed
engineering designs are satisfactory.
Project Implementation
57.       Project implementation would be the responsibility of RFFSA, with
thLe exception of the transport coordination action program, which would be
managed by MT. The various action plans would be carried out by RFFSA's
respective head office directorates, with appropriate technical assistance,
and with the support of the regional superintendencies. Development and
installation of the related computerized information and control systems
would be placed in a new organizational unit, regrouping the existing
services for data processing, OIS and telecommunications. A new strategic
planning unit would be established to carry out, with appropriate technical



- 19 -
assistance, the planning and management action plan and to coordinate the
implementation of the other action plans. The two corridor projects would
be implemented by RFFSA's head office Engineering (for permanent way works
and signaling), Operations (for yards and workshops), and Marketing (for
intermodal facilities) Directorates, with the support of the respective
departments of the regional Superintendencies (SR-2 and SR-5); operation of
the silos would be contracted to RFFSA's subsidiary company AGEF. A
Project Management Unit, which would be established in RFFSA's head-
quarters, with teams in SR-2 and SR-5, would have primary responsibility
for the implementation of the two corridor projects and would coordinate
the various organizational units involved. RFFSA would establish and
thereafter maintain organizational arrangements and a project monitoring
system satisfactory to the Bank, and staff with adequate qualifications for
the implementation of the project (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       The implementation of the project would be monitored against a
targeted time-schedule starting July 1, 1985 and ending December 31, 1989,
and against operational and financial performance targets. RFFSA would
take the necessary actions to meet the operational targets shown in the
table below (Section 4.01(c) and Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement);
to maintain its working ratio not higher than the targets shown in line 10
of the table (Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement); to limit its
annual borrowings to the targets shown in line 12 of the table
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement); and to recover, by the end of
1992, all the operating costs, including depreciation and interest, from
operating revenues (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Perfornmm  Targets                              1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
A. qOeratfmal 1rgets
1. Nbier of Staff (in 'CLNs, at year end)       69.5  68.3  6L0  685  69.1
2. Freight Loo.mtive Aailability ()               a    82   83   84   85
3. Freightlcannmie Utili2ation (Z)                61   62   63   64   65
4. FeigInt Loccutive Mileage ('000 kmp.a.)      54.8  5&4  60.2  62.1  65.7
5. Freight Loc. Producti-ity (lUlin net ton-km p.a.) 32.0  34.0  36.1  384  40.9
6. Frei&htMpn Ayailability (Z)                    91   91   92   92   92
7. FreightWagn Mileage ('000 km pa.)            33.2  33.9  34.7  35.4  36.5
&  hg,n Irrmraid Tine (eiL MBR traffic, in days)   &1   8.0  7.9  7.8  7.7
9. Track Rehabdlitation, km                      111  287  477  477  239
B. Finncial 
10. Wozidng Batio (,) 11                          84   79   78   77   76
11. Mkdmm NbouaiwatIrn (as 2 of Opeatixg Reveru)  16   15   14   13   12
12. M?ixm Borroaixm (Z2/                          65   50   30   30   30
13. CoUectim of Reivabes (days)                       45   45   45   45
14. Paynts of Trade Acomts (dys)                        45   45   45   45
1/ Ratio of total wodlng egxnses to total peatixrag revenies (includng nonlization
paymets).
2/  czkdirg Brk Ian, as a peroernta  of intercmly genexated furds.



- 20 -
?!oject Cost and Financing
59.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$422.0
million equivalent, including US$7.7 million for the policy and institu-
tional development component, US$188.8 million for the Goias-Mina= Carais
corridor and US$225.5 million for the Parana corridor project. The foreign
exchange cost component is about US$219.8 million, or 52Z, and the tax
component about US$58.2 million, or 14%. Total project cost includes
physical contingencies for US$24.4 million, or 7.7Z of base cost, and price
contingencies for US$81.6 million (or 24% of base cost plus physical
contingencies). Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of the
relevant standard disbursement profile (para. 62) and of the following
forecast of price escalatlon for both local and foreign expenditures
expressed in US dollars: 5.0% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8.0% in 1987-1990,
and 5.0Z thereafter.
60.       The project would be financed from:  (a) the proposed Bank loan
of US$200 million (or 47% of the project cost); (b) two loans from BNDES
totaling US$54.1 million equivalent (or 13Z of the project cost): one of
the loans (about US$32.2 million) is already effective for the Parana
corridor, and a loan of about US$21.9 million is currently being negotiated
for the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor; (c) a supplier credit of US$7.6
million (or 2X of the project cost), already effective, for the acquisition
of specific components of the signaling systems; (d) RFFSA's own resources,
of about US$118.0 million equivalent (or 28% of the project cost), of which
US$55 million is secured by a recent sale of assets to Companhia Vale do
Rio Doce (CVRD); and (e) Federal Goverrnnent contributions, in the form of
equity, of about US$42.3 million equivalent (or 10% of the project cost).
The Government would guarantee that all of the necessary counterpart funds
would be available to RFFSA for carrying out the project.
Procurement
61.       Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Procurewent Srranrents
(Estilated Cost in US MllIion)
Procurement Method        TOTAL
Expenditure Category         ICB            LCB        OTHER     COST
A.  Civil Works              104.8          33.1                  197.9
(29.1) 1/     (25.9)
B.  Materials                72.3           29.9                  102.2
(60.5)
C.  Equipment                86.6           15.4        7.6 3/   109.6
(67.0)        (11.0)
D.  Software                                            1.2         1.2
(1.0)
E.  Technical Assistance                                9.6 2/      9.6
(4.8)
F.  Training of Personnel    -               -          1.5 2/      1.5
(0.7)
TOTAL           263.7         138.4       19.9       422.0
(156.6)        (36.9)    -(6.5)    (200.0)
1I/ Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
'/ According to Bank Guidelines.
3/ Supplier credit.



- 21 -
Goods financed by the Bank loan would be procured by RFFSA through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines on procurement, except that, for contracts of US$250,000
equivalent or less, which would be too small to attract foreign firms not
already represented in Brazil, the award would follow local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures, which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory
to the Bank; the related documentation is in the project file. The
Bank-financed portion of purchases contracted under these procedures would
not aggregate more than US$11.0 million, including contingencies. Local
manufacturers are likely to compete for most items to be procured under
ICB, and, since they are often competitive in the world market, it is
possible that as much as 50% of the orders to be financed under the Bank
loan might be awarded locally. Local bidders would be granted a margin of
preference by adding 15% (or the applicable custom duties, whichever is
lower) to the CIF value of the foreign bids. Civil works contracts of
US$5.0 million or more would be procured under ICB; LCB procedures, which
were found at appraisal to be acceptable to the Bank, would be followed for
contracts less than US$5.0 million. Since the Brazilian construction
industry is well developed, experienced and highly competitive, these
contracts are expected to be awarded locally, although foreign bidders
would have the opportunity to participate. All contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more, and all contracts
for works estimated to cost tie equivalent of US$3.0 million or more, would
be subject to the Bank's pr'or review of procurement documentation.
Consultants for supervision of civil works, technical assistance under the
various action plans, and training would be selected and engaged following
the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. Aggregate consultant
costs are expected to be about US$10.0 million.
Disbuirsemnts
62.       The loan would be disbursed for:  (a) civil works (stabilization
of cuts and embankments, improvement of drainage systems, siding infra-
structure works, rehabilitation of superstructure, and installation of
signaling and telecommunication systems) at the rate of 35% of the total
costs, which is the estimated average foreign exchange cost component;
(b) purchases of rails, switches and fastenings at the rate of 100% of CIF
costs or, for the bids won by local manufacturers, at 100% of ex-factory
costs excluding taxes (with the exception of about 7,000 tons of rails and
1,000 tons of fastenings which would be supplied by CVRD as part payment
for assets purchased from RFFSA and used by RFFSA as counterpart funds for
the project); (c) purchases of track plant equipment, track machinery,
signaling and telecommunication equipment (excluding items to be financed
under supplier credit), workshop equipment, and grain silo equipment at the
rate of 100% of CIF costs or 100% of ex-factory costs, excluding taxes;
(d) purehases of computer software at the same rates as under (c); and
(e) technical assistance and training of staff at the rate of 50% of total
cost. In order to reduce the time period during which RFFSA would pre-
finance ;he Bank's share of project costs, a Special Account, with an
initial deposit of US$15.0 million, would be established in the Central
Bank. Withdrawals would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure,
showing the payments made by RFFSA; the supporting documentation would be
retained by RFFSA and would be available for inspection during project
supervision. The period allowed for disbursement of the loan would be
six-and-a-half years, consistent with the Bank's standard disbursement
profile for railway projects in Brazil.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audits
63.       RFFSA would establish and maintain a Revolving Fund Account, with
an initial deposit of US$2.0 million equivalent for the specific purpose of
carrying out its obligations related to the project. RFFSA would have full
responsibility for documenting all project-related expenditures appropri-
arely, and the Project Management Unit would keep the project accounts.
RFFSA would continue to retain independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank to audit its accounts, including the project accounts, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles; and would forward the annual audit
reports to the Bank not later than five months after the end of the fiscal
year (Section 5.01 of draft Loan Agreement); the Special Account would be
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       RFFSA has, over the past 25 years, gradually specialized in the
transport of a few, essentially bulk, products over long hauls. With the
development of the paved highway network, RFFSA lost significant shares of
the break-bulk, short-haul and passenger markets to the competitive road
transport industry. Mfeanwhile, mining and industrial development in the
Southeast and agricultural growth in areas served by its network, as well
as the more recent expansion of exports, have given RFFSA a key role in the
Brazilian economy. By supporting RFFSA's financial rehabilitation and the
improvement of its commercial performance, particularly of its efficiency
in the transport services fox which the railway has comparative advantage
over the competing modes, the project would contribute to more efficient
resource use in the transport sector. This, in turn, would contribute to
reduced public sector deficits and to the competitiveness of the country's
exports.
65.       The Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and the Parana cozridor projects
were found to be of the highest priority after an extensive screening of
RFiSA's investment requirements. The proposed rehabilitation and improve-
ment of-railway and intermodal facilities would enable RFFSA to rationalize
its train and terminal operations, in particular to operate more unit-
through-trains; to increase the productivity of its rolling stock and the
efficiency of multimodal -railway based- transport services; and to meet
the increasing demand for transport of agricultural and industrial products
in the two corridors. Quantifiable project benefits, essentially transport
cost savings, clearly justify the proposed investments; the estimated
economic rates of return are 18X for the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and
24% for the Parana corridor project component, and 21X for the project
overall, under base cost and traffic assumptions. Also, the reliability of
the transport services and the safety of transport operations in the two
corridors would be improved. Project benefits would be realized by RFFSA,
and, because of the competition with the trucking industry, to a large
extent they would have to be passed over to the users; substantial benefits
would accrue, in particular, to agriculture and export producers in the
areas of influence of the two corridors.
66.       Project benefits could be affected by lower-than-expected
economic performance, particularly export performance in the regions served
by the two corridors, and by unexpected delays in the project's implementa-



-23 -
tlon. In the most conservatlve transport demand and project coat assump-
tions, however, the project components would still have attractive rates of
return: 13Z for the GoLas-Minas GeraLs corridor and 17Z for the Parana
corridor. As part of the organization plan for project implementation,
RFFSA would establish and malntain an approprlate project monitoring system
to minimize the risks (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL   SJ          A) AUT.ORI
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in
ArtLcle III, Section 4(iii) of the Article of Agreement are being distrib-
uted to the Executive Dlrectors separately. Conditions for loan effective-
ness would be: (a) that RFFSA has put the organizatlon and staffing plans
for the implementation of the project into effect (para. 57); and (b) that
RFFSA has established a project revolving fund account with in initial
deposit of US$2.0 million equivalent (para. 63). Special conditlons of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI -TIONS
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
69.       I recommeud that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 9, 1985
Washington, D.C.



AMX I
-24-                                         Page 1 of 6
DRAZIL                - 0OCLAfi INDIlAC4S UIA 33Iva
'UaIL                                  zct s           lm   Avnss 
i h 1970k    mmmnL       MiDDLE  o  r.          miew   twarn
196aLb                            IAQ Us d UT. tMCA *A CUt    * IORM
AURM (Ilhif sq. US)Roa
TOTAL                           551Z.0       331.0      5512.0.
AQICULTURIAL                    136.4       Z1931      2352.7
CUP FP  CWrA (W3)                   330.0       600.0      2240.0          2100.6                   2345.3
SoC aumornau a cair
(KIlOORANS OP OIL IQUIVALENT)    264.0       412.0      740.0            9955                    1122.5
PnnUnATION - VIvAL STIusnl
POPULATION IqD-YEAR (TWNOISDS)  72594.0    ?5847.0   126106.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)     44.9        55.3       611.             66.5                     46.5
POPULATION PROJECCIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                         131.1
STATIONARY POPULATItON (KILL)                          303.6
POPULATION ICENTIM                                       1.5               *
POPULATIoN DENSITY
PER SQ. M.                       5.5        11.3        14.6            35.7                     82.9
PER SQ. CI. ACt1. LAND          44.4        48.4        52.7            92.4                    151.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUR (Z)
0-14 Us                        53.6         42.7       40.9             39.1                    31.6
15-64 YlS                       53.8        54.3        55.6            56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                     2.6         3.1         3.5             4.1                      7.1
POPULATION aUITH RATE (2)
TOTAL                            3.1         2.8         2.3              2.4                     1.6
URBAN                            5.7         5.0         4.1             3.6                      3.7
CUDmE BIRTN RATE (PER TIOUS)      42_7        35.0        31.2            31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DRATH RAkTE (PER THOS)      12.9        L0.3        8.1              5.1                     5.3
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0         2.4         1.9             2.0                      1.6
rAtLY PUANNING
ACCEPTORS. AOIAL (THOUS)          ..        111.0      203.6 Ic
USERS (Z OF HURIED W1 )           ..          ..          ..            40.3
FOOD AND mmino.
DE3X OF CUD RMOD. PER CAPrTA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0       102.0       133.0           114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAIOURES CE OF REQUIRaEENTS)   106.0       106.0       107.0            110.6                   125.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAN)        "4.0        6:_0       60.0             67.3                    89.7
OF WHICH ANIIIAL AND PULSE    35.0         34.0       36.0 Id          34.1                    34L5
CHILD (AGaS 1-4) DEATH RATE       19.4        Z.S        8.0              5.7                      5.2
ISALT
LIFE EXPECT. AT BiRTH (YEARS)     54.7        58.1       63.8             64.7                     67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER YloUS)    116.2        98.6       73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE hATER (ZrOP)
TOTAL                             .-        55.0        77.1 /e         65.4
URBAN                              .        780        88.57            75.1
RURAL                             ..        28.0        X.57;           46.2
ACCESS TO EXICRErA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        58.0        64.8 /I         52.9
URBAN                             --        85.0       53.7 7T          67.0
RaRAL                             ..        24.0        31.7 7T         24.5
POPULATION PER mSICIAN          2210.0      2130.0         ..           1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PER 0URSINIC rERso         2810.0      1120.0         ..            515.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          310.0       270.0       250.0 le         367.2                   326.3
URBAN                          250.0       320.0         ..411.5                                201.5
RURAL                             -....                                2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HrPITAL BED          *-        18.4         ..             27.3                     20.0
ac
AVERACE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1          4.5        4.9 le
URBAN                             '          4.6        4.7 7Te
RURAL                                        5.2         5.3 7Te
AVERAME go. OP PERSYOS/I
TOTAL                             ..1.1
URBA^N                            --         1.0
RURAL                             L. 1.2
ACCESS TO ELECr. (Z OF DIELUS)
TOTAL                           35.7        47.6        67.4
URBAN                             ..        75.6        88.5
RURAL                                        B.4        20.6



-25-                                              ANN=  I
Page 2 of .6
5 U   AuLk ElA! m       A RN  SIZ3101. I      A4  1 I30
aso                  OM sso | SDU
196A      10oh                      IATL^, AMU       A0           UP
swum
ADUIED  1DLZU   NITI
PRDMI      MM                     95.0    U      .0                         105.4                    101.1
VAL1                   97.0         84.0        SI.0 ELi         106.3                     105.3
AI                     330 ".o                 0 p.0             104.5                     96.7
IOOAT1 TOTAL                       11.0        26.0        33.0 /h          43.2                      59.1
KAYS                   11.0         26.a        230               *2.J3                    ".I
7U1AZ                  100so        27.0        35.0 fa           "S5                      50.6
VOCATIOUNAL Cs0O  ZOUU              1.69         16.7        53.2.a            33.6                     21.6
111L-TZACUE EATZO
PR7NAUW                           S.0|33.0        0        2.0  f           30.1                      25.1
UCOlIDIII                         13.0         13.0        14.0              16.5                     20.5
410S.?       1AIt CZS               61.0         66.2        76.0 g            79.5                     75.6
1A3NUK& CAII/TIOUSAND 101            7.6         16.6        48.9             46.0                      54.7
mmO   XZV UIT1O1AND l0              65.4        105.4       165.1             25.6                     164.9
Tr ISCZ1VER/OJUA D POP              16.5         44.3       119.7             107.2                    123.6
3313*A3  ("DIlL   IIEWgJ
INTIIRT) C3DCU10&I0
P   CWSAJ 7OSLTIO                 52.9         35.6        44.0       h       3.5           S.3
CDIUBIANAUAL ATr_NDANWCA1ITA         4.4          2.0         1.8       Z        .8                      2.9
Lam-
TOTL LABOR. VOUC  (t1OU1)        23326.0      3041L.0    40363.0
1I3m1    (SnCzNT)                 17.2         20.1        23.2              23.2                     34.5
ACEZCULT   (cncES)                51.9         45.6        29.9              31.5                     40.7
m0wSTE? CnCEzlT)                  14.8         18.3        24.4             23.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION LATE CitZRCN!)
TOTAL                             3L1          31. 7       31.8              32.2                     42.9
HALE                              52.7         50.3        46.9              49.3                     34.7
NALE                             U11.2         12.8        14.8              15.2                     31.0
ECONOIIC DEUZNDEEC! R111             1.4          1.4         1.4              1.4                       0.9
PUICENT OF FEXVA7 INCQIZ
11318? ST  Of EOr U  D             ..           ..          ...
HIGHEST 20S ZFOrRssLo3            60.0         63.5        62.0.
LOUIS? 20 Or RCNCLDS               3.8          3.2         2.6. .
1 5 40%1 oSr                      10.8          9.0         9.4                .
fojt  7S~ C10OS
STIMATED AUSOLUT POV8   INCO
LZEEL CUSS PE CAPITA)
URBAN                               ,            ..          ..             2e'8.2                      .
RMAAL                                            .        150.0 /d          1840
ZSIllD IIZATLZ POm=   ICI
LEV COUSS PU CAPITA)
033*5                               ..           ..       465.0 td         522.8
lUI"                                .                     33.  d;           372.4
ESTIOATD POP. B1ELO ABSOLUE
PO17W! 1INCRZ LEE (Z)
ID.A                 ..                                                        .....
lWS AVALMZLE
NMT APPLICABLE
N1 O T E S
la   The gro averaes for each IndicAtor am popuLation-mlhted arithmetic means. Covuraa of coutriee among the
endlcatore dependa on availability of data and Is not uiform
/b   Unlese otbhrwie noted. Datea for 1960 reffr to ay yer  betmen 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwn  1969 and
1971; and  data for 'Most Recent Utimuts" betun 1980 and 1982.
e   1975; Id 1977; /a 1976; lf 1979; IL Beginng 1973 primay and *secndary education covetr age  toup 7-14 and 15-17
inetwt Of 7-10 and U-17in earlier yeara; therefore. most recent aeti-tes are not coerabla with earlier data;
.tk 1978.
J.IZ, 1984



-26-                                                                    ANNEX I
______________                                        ~Page   3   of    6
Mtatga  At2alob teb. d..  -4sd-a  E- asea  eaah.tl  Wd.- -et asbeltaaia  -4 ealig.b. tt .b-t  .5.. b. .5.4d LAW lb" my -1t in ls..atIlLV
map .bi   ga itte   I  .e     teadiddfaas  -o _as.a   -4 by diftfsaa  ss"t' Is i -c.tmn sin de.. lb. fts. -a* set.saife  a
toI.acip  .1  sagetiads  alsam. ms. ai O1agmasats  er.ilA. ale dlttta             insea  =egt
To. i.aasas     4 ra... It) am -    d-,ty gNe5 faf .ablataneg  net7 (2 aZ sas  sine elgbm  L         s  bit., i-nns lan  lb-a si   .MeAF ClaP W
.abj.c  flary (*i..-  tat .Me11a laa O51 R.e..geaa  Bine ea..   . ISSe    lssS MM    ns a1 MHIS     A. tasi  b.se Sata  it ".tn.i .saaftAelL
.h5gSaAam. ta tin  tta-i sine dci Sin esasa  -e  pelatlas waist  aittbatlt   -  tat .ia  huge., isd tee   -iF to slept, aD ibi ma-tte. I.
time inia. f.. abs beltsl. lAss a   -.e. a5 eerIeW  -    tin iidltase    hugS4. - tb. .sslbSTha  at d.c. -1  -an   agl. ma- an  at
tscia   . palette  -gam, M -  Lsdt=1te  V. W-n.lb. --cag -  sly  natal Es Lneangl. tb. -1-v .4 -  teditie-                 t us na   Amier
yeA (gbava ae..l-l WatattaW 1gay--ibeagyt.. - Pienleal -1a                                                            - diadg  by  gpL at..aati.g
- cag eangci-. Wge. iwastits          -.asas nte.s  to                           "Wi~ XIl7..    spiaa.ssegveytat
-.  ide eat..                                                           Piftspa. ci awn  - . -ap Latas   ma    taat.  geddb.vn   tpaae~
gat M EeA." i.e..a Gass as -W.aa ...... I,-t._ Peat... sn                            esttesaaa I  ktapiad.  ~          .  
5?iaI-s d         Lat-.   9- kital-aajatteav -a.t h1Ld - l.aieL..e  a-                                                    aet-b    ileletatt
t*M. V019.  W I"z d...                                     bp ld, L-tt - pk~~~~~~~tfLdad bylshtaumata"    v.a6. :aft Saaeii, aids.
- Wpa cpIa vttig. t eipat'sagpit..                attbt  te   ht  a  ann..w asr.-"      is agc      Allea  aalath see
CUUMM"Uraesapita -aga-a  I    rW -k         date. (Figs-e     -als9sntlgadl-, -eaae    aps9.tef aea  .tabtaeate- Ca.                       t   vist
I.S. _. =I_%    -     gm  -1 %-  dp  -  Iavie. ti   Iepgetc  toe.?  laglad. biib                                 d
Swat BAsset eat psi tsIre     SL- giitaeg eggigtl   P- -ptift low.Ic".  ganac. -   lanr   ageN rtts b     bacl.(a  y     aa
a aea ,gt rasa raittl  .sssga   ieIaiatew   sttsae                            ipa*taget              adlast-tastlg.".
iOtw.-go                                - ini  i.egsa,II,      I !   ea  te.e .te  as          nitai    ntacn    e  ei
tin  ii.Iats  .ar.e atraii   isanteba gatil iaptslt -                  SIMnl  nMa  at-- a  eeSsadt.7.                           m.Ieasaat.
cat.. eteae  at atbi ian    , ita   U ty  Wtltratv dat                    a  tie.agd.=nets,    bie..m -ab da m-atP~-            instid.
asgeaaeassa1- si  -       eas e.t.-                                            a .n-dtieattvit..t.....
is1eeZi-- lW                                                                     caLfsa.tratagae -.fla  tpi ab..    a.ca aagg agy-
W    a- -  taiga gaggtatlia g..jaeat -    ial-I. 11                -q pita. pa   asi cii 4ara,"applassd .as
eat...1ta5siiaa       -tapmtst gay patit gitaltat P-'-.                        ft5  pica..
nita. tao tapal  a  i-ta  it.1 aqat-a   aeaeea9lt.se  at- 'It,gte. FAssaastat .tatag  ~vs tsQ-i newt. at ie.a.
seandint. S is-gateaitidset a  as   as-I a     .pfl iIts,lap19    A                                                              r      1
plnss  iteni   t.Sa n.  p  5i P ftginiC aatei  -  at                              ft to at..9`.~141t.1vl
geseas  a   ..aasi  i     igpltay   g.      a . pejtl  p aa               MinS t,s5aa  bi_g..                     &-    r-0B
easeal   . e   -e  lbb. as   -lass eata. ala 9   ag-gaatttL.W-stb.                 a.ePla  ati.te.a  i itt-, sag a    -ie-s    -ialtt
tiegdiil  tig53   a  aS  mm -1-.1filItaA,  ti bAit ea.I  amt                        ee  a  d-ge alli.itlqt                  patina. - idttls te
Amgeg rt p  dice -t -t-,-pea     -" . laainata a5i gnat-it, ed. ti                   e-it,es esliarail         Ifacea .issma  t.e    eaep
gA.abet.   sea. -   b   iasaygiaai ass t m    eseiad-            t                 *t-tar g  nes. -is.,ea.tn~ttstab    n
int.Sti  pcgJ.eted 2 giti. ttt  .tagpe. A.gf a -tin  pAm                     _ic1dit at5b   -- pst  i.4 ga 1pne-  -igrtadaaaaseegi
ecg.pvvss  asa - l tinicagAtyPt  .vp-iA.ss   e   -   mL. spw.d.giaata-Asso. 'a sate  ti-ig... -seea                                     e
5a 'anis    a. a 1-9..aeagaa  pat. ba aem  aps.. lb.                        acatatt                                   --p.S-
5 agslata.ta in  ie    . anep  ci  i'ae v  a                  a"tga et..  .att.taadts-Paccl  Imiata
ase.tags atgaap   aaatep  inaasag     IWO.t. 4data                                tgelaac tega t.vas      iitac. as'iye
*cgpsid. IS  Jes AWN.v5.c..ceeae tips.- paapaadatatia   Ps                                                                            -a.&-taae
icseslaa giasit.                                              ipsac~~~~~~~~~~i . s . m-id.sap.li  e    eb.  v  -aer.. 
-alnai  iIrae    (ia"Lald -u Ctsegtan       -IS aa.tgt- eitseg--eIpsi-         P,aqg1-teg
- ,iapt.7a    ct   s   a -1-      apse) at t.ea.tqw. 1at  .  -ca                 nimo. c.  .  5att..as..    a.aa.et Pact. et-
Psp.lgtsatet ag. y..ta.at - atas   mac  tcatb ets .                                                              la-st-15let  samtg
teat igeilgalas ta          i   sata.gdtta mc  geesadentigl-alie.atrate   a  ag
Liee.sfnera tso.e   C.".i. a                    se'sal.vaitasa  eIctsai t.nsl b- is- I.                                     fe  -s aasiLtse  ead
l-i padd tva- (iesoW)-aei  t.sai  .L                            c-                   ttian  5 ane  das gepss,          at  - an  -  .a,.asea atn  n
game ygp.bttt  tens, teat. si teti date                             ntIs ibtitt    5t"saitea."-`..  S
Camisigasatts ini -  arempa -..,aft dsbaci . agin  .11bn S                    aa.       Wi nya   t   asaal    I  an an trests. .,
Fa  .eAna -dt" ie-   i   4ytfatdi - e     toa    tasaaa-i I-itlC It gi eat.. at% lea  f _n P   lan,
it s5a~al dsatta .    a~ats  it   -.I."n -tiy psnai                         t    a.t tta_ a .-          f a-t it. e   ..-   -1ai as a   -ica
-W age.                                                                       55a1"Liced Waate ft"vlpa.9   asdt        aant  esit  5. a
Paiv5  Plant b- 5in impic   igietad .gP- t-- t       ts at aytdkt --asse.   Pp                               (.      g"11
pblteP-b.ea        ngnsl    s.5   sc.dtbatPpm                                        lie(i.tts ) - Wtan4IAm,.            l. capes) 1ip-... tgeile  crad
wd~~~~ Cl. . I g,mt,gl-  .""usattts a .5  s..  atatbyese-l-'set.  ii a
inPmd   aa"..   Atl  aaM Ub --mal.n-L-.as-eeCTa  tn. at   s  CIdae
ail  tleiP- all eAd-       tpa.e.&vsagataat                                                    - eP-Ladn  tat.5  a.aa  eg . Santa  a-.-
raid asIs as nage p-a bata . C-ied.  aasc- bpelVWi eatmigg                    teas- ag Wcipaa at te-sLake. tua  sg. es       he
ins aggt.    ne   re'et  galitRal tb-b. tetf, a6 eas"                              as Ita data.                                     -. =            L
tis.    1piatteigalAtis gagatW                                                                   (isa iette - slt  a Mi.etn.-taepata
Pt  .at sI dt at'L pist (asga eF- egvi.mson  -L I- Mt attnayP-                          rats an sW pa  a. ftas    ala,        asts tain  lie  .It
inat.  n antacid hy ItO hod - pbystelacsetl fl is anal          t-l          t-       a- tc,a iil-asn .-  r-I a aP ag          ig
"Mtsy  sbt   tgg-tdite  Qatnaa        ima-a. ba  stta.tfiataii B!l  (i.,igd  k-u
as  s   s   aatss   Ppeita,a  Ima  aiat  i
atnn d    -..!   ec-n. eeM at teMM"b.*as                                                                                         1911
Pattoe  asy  ci galas 1-apain W a day)- t- nasal ne'  atb  g.   es                  .ns.tcat.l               it  eahi   tt)-iclab  si
ansaplya-  -r  is -fds.A an aptt  id.  se dft  -             E   npao   Itt   is   tmii   ya.a    se       inda
amt&W e ttt  ito it.  tatr.! aftais as -tat,   m        a
ail- asaa        sat  aeaaei Diadfatl-               ,  Sta
ala.     -                                                                    aSVs=
0. glangloct-  d ftapgtgg ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      Isat Ste "asts ft Wb..sea.8  tst  teiba stat
FU vft.[-  -1ti   anatagt te.ac  ace    anls  tipit   



27
in.7 ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     7
L -e~~~~~~~~ 
Q Air tbiou 0114  - -
_gmt
OAXt dON
Indicator                  J98                            Actual                                                   Projectea
-                             ~~~~~1975    1r  1983    lMt         3<    1t             1W       1S       17       1-        1U       10
al m    Decad e 1i p        9.W           S.6     7.2    4.6       0.9      4L2       4.5          4.3      5        6.2      67       7.1       7.3
Apinum                    23.766        L7       6.2     6.4    -LS         2.2     3.9          3.0        0       4.0      4.0      4.       4.5
T..In                      1.1ff        5.3      7.9    -S2       0.3      -L.      5.           5.7      7.0       80      9.0      9.0      9.1
gwwim                    M1173          10.3    7.3    -.1   L 7           -5       3.7          3.5      4        5.2       5.5      6.1      6.4
Q     pmwtLen              INBO,          84      3.5     0.2       3.3               Lb Lo        7.1      3.3      53       7.1      7.6       7.7
-     _lu.Ijb               3.974       *-7.0    1L1    -59        -4.2    -47.J      45           4.3     1.1       11.5     6.7       7.1      7.3
IN    0Oa            23o          12.      2L7     D.9      -4        136       .0         -45       46       4.        3.3      5.3       .9
limm d of an594                          -9.6      18   -134       -52      -17.2    1.3          1L4      12.6      9.4      L2       9.0       .2
ounol bzS                   2D.003        6.4    1L6   -1V6       -3.6       4.4    2Z6           4.7      215       12       8L4       7.5      7.3
Mani
c  -aC   (1910.mi)           D5                  2.955   53.8     144W     2B241   9103
7-4. '  a C-wmnw8 S                       8.1    SZ.7     91      179.5     577.0   84.9
9uto d    at =t Pdri                                 I      A1   cmm  _2)
(At G_cdm )                                     (At 0 t 191t Mm)
W51       IMW     19w       IJWC                      1973-M   IUW45-1n1
Game Nanett MmCOw                 1.0      ID       3.0.0    0                            6.5      0.8      6.
:n,lmd-                           9.2     IL0       8.3      7.5                        9.5      L2        4.2
Uztiatz                          3L1      3L8      3L9      3U1                         4.6    -0.3       8t5
SVoE                             46       ".       43.9     4.9                         7.8      L3   - 5.6
r -umam                           76.6      81.3     74.7     73.5                        7.7     -L        6.4
GM  Jain;j                        27.3      2.1      8L0      2L0                         2.8     4.2      9L4
4am  ws                            7.5      s8        3.      12.7                        6.4     145       5.2
7apw  cS                          11.4      IL2       6.2      7.2                       -13      -18       9.4
GOOD SOL.Ad  MIW                 231        16.  16.4         3L9                        -1.6              IL1
(At 0M      ni= 9dam)
1*1S Pin=  (comat COPMMt)                           191      WS1    mg1  19WF  HW        30f
Omug  h1t                                           16.6    19.8    1.8    D.1   1L9    2L2
Gmt Emam                                            14.4    15.5   17.6   l9l8    3.2    3.4
sq.h  (+) ar (-ft C-)                                2.2     4.0    12    0.3   -1.4    4.2
apitla awit2 L6                                              3.B    3.7    4.1    3.5    3.4
pi   gwit)                                           0.4    -0.2    Q5      3.9    4.9    7.6
Cth .MCZ)                    7.0     0.5    6.9
o     0Qii. (ki* plan coK       3.0    -1.9    4.5
Ruu' Cmq.rim  (        ok mm CS)   6.5  -       -
3=M                             3.3    D.7    3.1
Iozu1 _I.w Now                  0.0     0.5    0.3
TPt iRwo                       -2         4     L4
Is hA    I  pdm;  w         - an      at fAtcmp  WA wiII mt mm d m ID mia dw of mm            mm   d admMu.
Ab 195-U cUn     - fw  r  lum.ax   C mui n  fwt           t j     -f l se t fln  Sum d_umm. 13 amc wud,In        In   eptUm.
1C1        Yo.ml   at commm    .
Al PkmIm<ey.
If 198Wa -U lAtiaMn-  f-1 a,p=40 Mat                          ---a ma dnt.    .-   u.mb,mmn - tcf    ba  fad.in amo1am.
Jon 30. 19W



- 2B -
_  5 of 6
MnfL. - M        2e Jd
Awt
IES tIIIai at                                       A.1 _mw& Uat. C    De catin c 190t)
Indiato                                                                                                                      d
Indicator                   (193)                             Actual                                                  Projected
175    9110    191        1982       1913    l9Bc    1915        1916      W        198S     Igo      1990
Mer -a powta                 21,96          21.9    21.2      9.9      -L0       27.5     2.1       .4.5       4.6      4.6       5.3       5.3      6.0
Ptm,t                        8,960         3.7   02.4    45B    -10.1            14.3     9.0      -1.3       4.2      4.2       4.4      4.5      4.7
_/hemM                       AMB73          0.0    22.5    lC6         7.4      43.5    3D.6       -7.0       5.0      5.0       6.0       6.0      7.0
thdoae lqon.                  15.629       -15.0      L4     -9.4    -2L3        -IL9     29.1      IL.4      12.6      9.4   8 .2         5.0      9.2
FaPd & Cr C                 1670           8.2  13.2    -54          -1.2      -1    112.0         7.6       3.1      5.3       7.3       7.8     80
Petm_                       8.607         -3.8    -9.1    -&.0       -2L6      -1L.6    -3.0      -4.9       LI        L3      -L6        5.9     6.1
Mtddnq andep                1.f5          9..      6.4    .69      -32.2      -13.0     L4        23.9      2L7      13.o      ILI       IL5     8L.
Odum                         3.257       -3.6    -L2         3.6    -iL3       -20.3    309        ZL5       9.8       9.0     L.1       10.2  IIL3
:oct Ftilm 1.3                               176      29D      252       225      19        197      2D4       ZI       2111      25B    2           33
7,wt     iz li                               242     431       474       522      493       363      329       331      39D       36       393     4An
Tke ErTdIe Imin                               72      67        53        43       39        57       62        66       6B        20       71       71
Camaptdm cE MgnidadiesMde~f   Ml                         I       ml Tioem, CZ)
(at aurmc Pr!..)                                   cot    l    9)prm)
1975      1950     115       159D                        1975-50   130-S   19S-10
Epo4M 10                                       0.0    110.0     I.OLO                         5.8      ILO       5.1
mA/                               67.7      44.6     46.2      46.5                         L        e6        4.4
?huiadm eamb                       37.3     55.2      538      55.5                         162 /a   23.2       5.8
1hcrm                               110.0 1aa  .O      1.LO     IOLO -0L4                              -L7       9.4
Fa  and Cmr Coodb                  9.8      ILI       1L7      13.3                         17.5    - 4.5       6.4
petw1                             25.4      44.4      8.5       6.1                          4.3     -7.3       2.2
Irddm  ad ip1I                    2.5       15.4      268      33.0                          7.5     -3.4      IL9
Odaem!                            3B.3      2.1      47.0      47.6                         -1.9     -L3        9.6
tem of TDie Velh              9m  oE tmb kUdh           9m  cf  Utde with cd
I1demi1al Qatz  CX)          Nmeqapzm C.omUls CZ)        Saphu dii rsarfm  CZ)
trutea of Mrad                   1975    19      11 193      197       10    135B        N75    19E0   19E3
E                              G60.2    57.3   62.3         23.5    2.5    2L8          0.8      LI      2.2
lip.r                          67.3    46.6   36.5          67      16.0   17.4        13.2    14.1    19.3
/a Far du puPed   1-9   Prmy I'adw    -   s-proinad gpodg pla  Iza gm.
A  Far dh  ed I  175-1950.  _mfb    1z.  oder  dmb.
Ic p1lcimzy.
Te e aIt a  Import prjecatm ampclnlatd - follo:
Evat  hiieto
Sip-am projetatam Wm Oak farf mde ja  Ifficolb     comodev- adlee. ar. saqb  puAWt. ad caom-sm wIl - fw1   wer am d
Lmfacmd. ,1sivn-co         aL  od I   wdm. PsJ. fa  mi1bal   ad.m  wadat W19 pauecd . lie Mm  lDm 1m            in emul              is I 
aemcrd to be wlati _findin1. wid    f affe.   ,r acd co= guadg at in. &m 3I paryuw for   P cE dth peel sd acwo au gmwug at I6b8m
Nmmsfachwd        wer am ecarto d J2m In 1  ad 1nme I     5-11 per 7mw baim  134. a m                    ldw mt  em fit et o.
lat w91s ad ear1y 198b. Sui,im.dN gaol.. %id&  -ult cf azimfal-tomed ad Irma pro4aI     awpcd in folsti da  Imd cE i mfcm
prOb-    dr d=  M1- J  MGt[M1  Emla Eaw na-pdmz  cmim  m  madld t                      '  St am    _di oa pIn  Ida OM).
TPt   hoeto
Ar 1935 all hVt           Y pup  9t peui   we adoamuiy detwof     ha& of fMoo   d otler   arWm  In iII                  pdg    I in
priate cqdmp       utla ad wtol padact. t GOP poh; fercUlzem.  > mad-lu-ml sectr  poed   dthe in4Slaft wmb, ton ndk.Ual  ctinc
panh;ambwl  womb  fId  1 t. lam pued  in dintic all    aptim  in a                  ci     P 01adh. ttdc oil pmd    ia a*d to
4-ze  ftm 53X000 Ipd In 1935 t 600,000 tp id 19in . xdatt  at got  £1 maltfl 10    i      am obdli m   a ulm-L
Me twom pdm  Id.. for fooL oIe Ine4ataWm ol. ad aqItmL gSof mue  uit dem IP.w.abmt &641Z pwr ywr. h1pdat. mmitd
EED'sD  bla ad doma.pdin ader -ulKid& 12nmme abut th e    - II!I ad fertilIze pdtow. uda da pu  prima 1h b     1                    h  due
4rSt 30, 19E6
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~           3 1,-



~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                           I9
MUfS      P4336.uin.m       00111  O l 336
3p,2o303Im      123.? .1111o (1u-h1)
33ltImio   3381.33  (3335)        l
eW Pw Copitso INA."D   913s                                                                                              I
1975     lo         ImS       I12         I13        I94 1|   17S         1          32  1U37 Ing          33         IWO
met Imi.xt  of %od. a" O   ourn      -6,702   -13.3      -II,132    -14,747    4,230         4d2    -2.351       -12.34    -1,531       -177       -m         -?SG
Impoto of oad.                      3,030     U. 132    23,23      20,175     21.n0      27,00S    2 ,730      30.101     34176     31,171     44,4       St.1
IOutm af Goods                     12.210    21,53      22.033     13.393    13.429      13.937     ,12m       17,6       30,304    214        2,41       32,3117
N.o loom Rosa.                     -1.713    4.321      4,5331   -11.33    -40.31,   -10,872   -12.021    -30.217   -11.1n    -136 S          - _11333    -52.11n
(Mt .4.3 1hIotV t 307Y.M.0       (2,0421   t(332)   (7.Mi)   (3.326)   (T6473)   (3.312)  (10.3004)   (t.12)                 .3372   (10.003)   (10.031)   (10),7
3.t p4moeter ksoul                 -1,423    -.1230     ..,3       -3, 3      -2,407    -1,714      -2,303     -3,321    -6,040 o    4,01    -5,713    4.326
Nmt Tr.amt.r                             13       132        1n         -10        1a3        172          0          0         0          0          0          0
Ge.ot  A.,oat klan.                  4,033    -1243    -1,t004    -14.757    4.142            6a4    -3,061    -1.,         -1,393      -17t      -.41        -736
Uloot liotyt    tosott                  3        3.121      1.a2  Ns     31         44      1.047        122         02       "0        1.076     1.230      1.442
3AL. B     (,.:                       * t)  4.630  4,432    5,730      7.433     12223      3,043      3,712      2,746      4,217     4,13t7     5,39       S ,33
at,                                mahmom  (6.3823   c1 3133)   (1.04)5  (34A.33   IO.90     (1313s3)  (314.660)  (110.30)  133,337)   (16.30?)  (20,303)   (2034322
dootleol.                          (2,15 .I23   (MGM     (73332     (7.414I   (2,S73)OL (10. 240)   (1.111)  (14,136)   (14,700)   (14.3SO)  (564)  (13"033)
3tll_   ooma Abroad Mt)                -It 4       -21      -323       -34         122         o1          0    -1.400      -2,60     -1,30      -3,000     -3,040
otr  CoP(ttl (clUc lgt Sf41
me odamla)                            -71      1,432      2.333     2. 05    -I,m        -4,33        -220        202       -7U3    -1,101    -1,474    -1.333
O..go 1i 343.1v43 (- 1Idleft.
onen_.)                             2,223      3.23       -3        4,133         21    -7,027        -500      -761       -1I        -33I    -1.344      -1, S9
Inot.otlrnl _ nsea 1                 *.719      0,912     7 305      3,230      2,7S7    10.4710    30,37      11.73?      12u.3s    1U,30      13,026    153*20
(of w.Idel sold)                      3S       1,343 I      03         65        207       -          -
36.wmo _s Ihtbo of 'orti  (1s)            3.3        3O         3.3       1.6        2.        0.6        G.         6.0        5.6        B.I       4.*        4.3
*ooto Cital D N .:bt
rss D101armmos..                      4,312     1131123    13.045    14,983 12.902         1B.M3      14,41      le,.30     15,933     16.947    20.303     21.432
off lolal Gr.oo                      -          -          -          -         --                               -          -         -                     -
Ca.mu_*mlal l_n                       102         19         19       3C           4 *        6         74         70         4U        la         10          7
OaC                                  67         53         17        110         3          D0        00         2?        3I         10          4          3
ONE                                -          -         -          -             I         IS          3          S          1         o0         0 
IDA                                -          -         -          -          -          _          -          _         _          _          _          _
utbor                                15          2          2      -          -             1          3          a          9         a          5          4
vo _-Cmcawmlinl Looms               *,310    1132394     10,025     14U03      1.ID3     13,07      16,767     167tO    15s,30       19.929    20.793     20,423
Of ft.la1 11_ t Cet.d        7       11        412        uS        "a        1,0"      3,307      1,3        1.326      1.196      1, 20    I,0        1.0D
low                                 250        25        3J9        423     13254       3,234      1,432      1.336      2.40      3,303      53,         337
OIbo Y3l.1t.snl                     11H        In         130       "1         217        29        237         274        273       265        23         270
kloto                             O,130     10351      34,362    13,007      *.378    13,937      11320      U3. 72     15.970    13.051     17,973    17,016
21Dnwl llbt
3.Ur 0.1atafilog .04 r_   rat d    21.41      50.4"     64.625     73.034     79.250    s,61        32. 303     2.030     33.327   102.526   I50.663    114.002
7?.blcI?.bcly                    'X"Uantood  13,34  33,34  44.333  "9.11    s3.03n O    9,3J7     76,4*0    32.63       30,146    97,42     104,347    311.33
P- -  . ....Gottood               9.592     1b.39O O    9,732    22.123     21,512   12.223       11,92      12.472     9.179      3,039      33516      2,*46
U,eub.r.ad Mott                     3,761     l1023    125,432   14.;22        '.917    133727      32S320     10,793      9 017     3.4U3      9.426     3.47
12 £210603  (22
ISO dob.-. tiatal S-
dlobahoir to               2.3        3.1        2.L        4.2.      11.1       *.3        9.1         .3        7.0        7.9       7.4        7.3
13s0 OCOtotl DOD                        4.7        3.7       3.6         .71       4.3        5.2       6.0        6.J        7.2        7.1        7.6        7.0
350 d.t ....1. .ottal d4bt hSo-          .        2 25  LI   2.1        LS         4.2        3.3        4.1        4.5       5.6                              7.4
Total 2t04    Iayout. 1            3.70      53,143     33,332    13.625     11.200    20.978    22.976       24,31      23,233     25,435    26,41      26,430
l-t r_                            1.i49 I    .322      7,933      9.301      7.072     10.7)9     11.617     3,2175     10.331    12.733    20,794      113403
oyvuot 2. *  t  w.ro (CM3)             36         56.5      63.6       71.7       4.0        72.3       30.0       75.3      03.3       60.50 J     5.4       0.3
A   *vgaItaot Net. " N
0o..r- oe    boo. (2) L.                 6.7       ILY        5i3        12.7      11.4       11.3       12.0        9.S        9.3       9.7        9.5        %.5
Of tIdl                                 3O         9.1       10.3      10.S       50.3          .          . *.e_ n...                  to.        i.e. *..
lyot. 3trm                              LI        13..       10.3      12.2       ILO        e_.         _.        i.          ..       i..        me.         .o
Marna .Ihotrity or M
oormatm.d la__m  (ro.) tc                9.0        3.7       9.7       10.9        9.3        9.0       10.1       11.        131.3    I.1        11.3       11.5
Of 11.l                                13.4       12.7       12.6       22.7      32 J        a..       e.            .      a..        s..        0.0.        .0.
private Il_o.                           6.3        L.3       3           .0  10.2  6.4                               - i..  e.  _.      o_          ..        e.
3.5trit   S  eo oca of F69,116 Ilt fetmotoig
Nlamtla d.. _1*d  3 7yer                                     59,
IbIrItLo  d. 4.10tet  10 7.ro                                9'.
I7trott Structo. et llnbt Ostoul"
Roteot do -I t0. 00. flnt t r                               .-.
to  Dow not 1oct04 PM    d ollar ...tlo  adjo._t.
lb lot oot and a_aoa   _  _ 3'1 .U         1a-   toam  t-     pt vit.t ot   .ar_ttet. 4.b.2
Ic   l2l1c 30t only for 1973.
La ?rollamyw.
I        I. l 3  00.  -.od   4          d3  ro.r b.dig la .o _a_0.- _a _ d_r 74 14D- -o.t_t  1. lot 0. PrIel pl 00.2t .*told ho d. .tbo               hdalog.
i.e. - Not mIsbl..               -                                                                                                            2, 1335



- 30 -
AMNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GRDUP OPERAIIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Akotmt less  Ubdis-
Loan#   Year            Borrower                  Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy two loans fully disbursed                                  3,107.7
1195     1976 Brazil                          Rural Development       12.0        1.3
1317    1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.0       25.9
1362     1977 State of Ninar Gerais           Rural Development       42.0        1.4
1452     1977  Brazil                         Education               32.0       7.1
1488     1977 Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0       2.3
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sewerage               110.0      57.5
1537    1978 Brazil                           Ruralg Development      24.0       13.2
1538     1978 ELTIK)BRAS                      Power                  130.0       15.8
1557    1978 Brazil                           Roads                  114.0       17.3
156C    1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension       100.0       16.4
1589     1978 Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       15.0
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sites and Services     93.0         .6
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0         13.2
1714    197^~ Brazil                          Rural Development       26.0       16.3
1720     1979 Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0      26.6
1721     1979  COPEL                          Power                  109.0      26.7
1728     1979 Brazil                          Rural Development       40.0      22.5
1729     1979  Brazil                         Irrigation              28.0       4.7
1730-5   1979 Brazil                          Roads                  110.0      25.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                    Pollution Control       34.0      30.4
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           130.0       4.3
1824     1980  CEEE                           Power                  114.0      73.2
1839     1980 Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0      37.9
1850    1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply             139.0      32.9
1867     1980 Brazil                          Education               32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais          Rural Development       63.0      51.5
1895     1980 ELETROSUL                       Power                  125.0      87.9
1924    1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       23.9
1939     1981 ELETROBRAS                      Power                   54.0       43.4
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0       57.0
1970     1981 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            180.0      108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                         Alcohol Development  250.0         87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                         Agriculture             29.0       16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                         Agriculture             60.0       17.9
2060     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture             67.0       31.4



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Pa& 2 o-f 3
A. SIM4ARY STDIENST OF ULANS (Contimied)
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #  Year            Bonrrwer                   Pbrpose      Canellations  bursed
(USS Millions)
2061     1982 Brazil                           Health                 13.0        6.0
2062     1982  Erazil                           igthway.             240.0        63.7
2116     1982 Brazil                           AgrIculture            26.4        15.1
2138     1982 EIETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      146.4
2163     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        18.6
2170     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development      123.9      105.0
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Developmmet      42.7       31.7
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Develcpment       8.9         4.8
2196     1982 CMRD                             Iron Ore              304.5       117.2
2224     1982 Brazil                           Feeder Roads          154.0       129.0
2225     1982 BNDES                            Development Barking   220.0        9.5
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            302.3       210.0
2268     1983 Brazil                           Agro-Industries       400.0       374.0
2269     1983 Brazil                           Baral Develqpment      67.8       60.0
2343     1983 Brazil                           Urban Development      52.7       48.1
2347     1983 Brazil                           Ehqport Development    352.0        1.4
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0        6.0
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8        22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 250.6      227.5
2365     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8       190.5
2366     1983 Brazil                           Education              20.0       17.4
2412     1984 Brazil                           Education              40.0       36.9
2446     1984 Brazil                           Federal Bi*gmwys      210.0       189.7
2447/1   1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       55.5
24487r   1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies          2.0         2.0
2488/r  1985 Brazil                            Development Banking   300.0       300.0
24897r  1985  Brazil                           Education              72.0       72.0
Total                                               9,866.7 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                1,734.8
Total now outstanding                               8,131.9
Anount sold                             45.8
Of which bas been repaid              45.8            0,0
Total now held by Rqk                               8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                              3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
72 No IDA credits have been ade to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all BP mk/IDA financed projects in excecitlon, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Execalx e Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
AsM U
hu 3sf 3
B. SUWMM (W ]PC uslRNM (. d 3KdI 31, 1!6)
PrC                                                                                                                     cm in ItS S111m
TOW                                    Obltgor                                          dhii                       Ui                  Tcml
1957               S91_ do BMInI (3m de I3.efdode                                mseadl *dpn*                         2.OD      -       2.La
196 IIlikzuft. S. A. ihk.s e  peal                                              PSnp  rA pw                           L20       -        L20
393B                D. LR.PlLndoad I LA.                                        hjtmtdta Pmh                          L45        O      0.45
1953                v  Jw4 1al do kmdi. L A. - Xodanda e a                        bo MA  tI                           L45       -       L45
1959               Cnhhud  Htoad  d. O4-  1brti. SL A.                          c                                     1.2       -        3.0
1959                Omplan O1mz1m.w S. A.                                       RSIp                                  4.00      -       kw00
196619W6192An Ahm   lim  S.  A.                                                 s                                     LOD       L93     9.93                       £
1966/1969           Fqw p a Odul   = Catwd _m. S. A.                            pip ad pAr                            3.7B      3.41    7.19
1967/1972           UltmferlJ L A. -             Gnercla e Ci,do de 1ertdIkiw   Fet1ram                               6I.3     3J13    I1.25
1969               btuv*dUm= tio.  L                                               EA.  PetdoLcmJ                     5.3D      LBE     L38
1910                Phaolif;_. S. A. eMaldae C cdo                                    Pe                              S.D a113          L.3
1971               aEdt a. S. A. Ta&U   e CaGmdo                                SEtrsdtaidau                          4.6D      L44     6.04
1971                Rlo Gtade - Ce-ia de riulme do SdI                            Ip                                  4.9D      -       4.90
1972/1975/19B1        Ina  de CQint 1Pa 1 de 1Mm                                                                    19t W.14   6L0   175.84
19731777y/81/83/M4   Cadd  S wgta de  wmm    - 56                               S_mmI                                76.97     1527    924
1973                 qdLtd Vaet   1lm ont Pad - IWAP                            Cqitid rbdut Ie   l'n c               50       -       5.00
973/1978/193        lipi de Wvwasolvto de 11 1am lUM   -  MUN. S. A.   Nldel Edaw ad hfeHz                           8.0      87a    93.74
1974                1mmtrim VUllas S. A.                                        Meatm aid X "tz      a _ Bdpmt        6.0D      -       6.
1974                Fabra de TaD Tmmp_, S. A.                  T_mtiI                                                3LCD       -      31.0
197519              n.  c._tm  Iltdm   Ld.                                      Cabn Hadc                             6.18      L19     7.3
1975                0d         1iit. S. A.                                      Petgudadci                           1L00       -       1L0D
1976                S!2dsm Tuit1a-Tmwl do Not*mI  S.A.                             dl                                 6.45      LW      7.45
1976/1983           m r S. A. - TwI  im1e  do Normr                             T1                                   16.3)D     -      162D
i977                FMi S. A. fr- I-  l_amiuzlm                                 Tron ad Ahani Cmtlp                 32.0D       -       a.m
1977                M         Rilo do Nwc S. A.                                 lUnig                                 5.D       -       ISM
1978 MB    SideC                  ws S. A.                                      Tram ad Sd                            e366     3M0    I.3B
1979               VSlvo do 1aml Sitau  e a  imuo., S. A.                              dl                            W         5.27    6.27
19B                 HDzg do Nomdamle S A. -  M                                      ade G m                           2.JI      -       2.00
198D                Dad, do     S/A - Dmp_ - Prdccwma.  -t-ia
e Gdo de O1ouxm                                          hiinll                                3.53      LCD     45D
1910                VUlaa  TA dm doe Ewe S. A. -                                Irmn ad Stud                          5WD       -       5in0
198D                PEI - C Gipaida I11n W de PciiMqlo                           Onus  ad Petrdaml- s                1.OD    2LOD   17.00
198D                Daetta C5wit S. A.                                          Oudi1s ad Petrcddu                    -        0.25     0.25
19B                 Sot e Aiwds Qd- e !umd S/A                                  FetlfIzem                            38.00      6.00    4LOD
198                 P       P _d Be 1                                            OnLcada ad PatrdlraiU               43.0D     5.00    am
1961                kiipW                                                       kead 1itah et                         -        LSD      L5D
1981                qUa Itbuela   de JIu-peoraI - GAH                           Fond ad Food Etcm.I                   5.sD     3.00      WO
196I                mftdo                                                        bmdds ad Perodmml                   46.6W     4.00    1.0M
1992                Chowito OnIE                                                comint and Cm.uedatm n 1Isa1         60.I      5.D0   45.0
1997                A1imixg S. A.                                               3bey Cti 1I                          3D.0      0.45    3.45
1963                Cis _eqpaus de Patdpm  (CIP)                                lu  Cqipii d  K-                                .03      .03
1963                Aiim PdpdLIfe                                               Fool ad Food  FmO 13.0D                        -        l.O
1963                Capwdank do An" (E)                                         PI Oil                                6.10     -        6.30
193                  EA -  I  d Ce dlir    S.L                                  SIp &  qwer hIboct                   W00m      5.17    ti.17
1963                Soma. Fod                                                     oa  Food Phon   ng                  3.0      2.3      5.3
163                 cw                                                              ind Qnstiane  Ha1.               35 CO     -       35.00
196                 Qqnnida Aimohlmlam iacl                                      Oadml ad etr.dmmtcu                3.0       4.D 00    24.00
1985                Qiul  do BId.                                               COnacls ad Pe_a A                     2.75      LD    4.55
TacmL O        _m  _                                                                   931.97    96.44 103L41
:sm CmUat ldo, Tozlmim. ftwYmot ad Shlm                                                66L79       5.13 R 6.92
TatoL  Ctonktw 4  Ekld by EC                                                           210.16     SL31   3SL49
T*tmL tad.sbt                                                                           71.3      12.56 67.95
Jodi 15. 1965



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
RR=IL
FEDEuRL UAILUXY- -0=   CORRR - PROECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:  12 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:  RFFSA and Ministry of
Transport with Bank
Assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank   : October 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission departure       : November 1984
(e)  Negotiations                      : April 1985
Cf) Estimated Loan effectiveness       : September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  RFFSA to implement:  Ci) a program of closure of not co_mer-
cially viable lines and services between mid-1985 and mid-
1986; (ii) a program for rationalizing operations in the
Northeast and each year reduce the region's aperating cost
by at least 2.5Z; and (iii) a station closure program
initially in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais corridors, to
be extended subsequently to the entire network (para. 49).
(b)  Ci) RFFSA and the Government to establish and maintain
administrative mechanisms for the closure of not commer-
cially viable lines and services and for incentive-based
normalization payments; and (ii) annual normalization pay-
ments not to exceed stipulated levels (para. 50).
(c) RFFSA to: Wi) recover working costs for wheat, soya, corn,
fertilizers and cement by the end of 1985; (ii) recover
working and administrative costs plus depreciation and
interest on rolling stock for its 13 most important products
by the end of 1986; (iii) upgrade its cost accounting by the
end of 1986; and Civ) introduce a new tariff structure by
the beginning of 1988 (para. 51).
(d) RFFSA to: (i) prepare an operations management master plan,
present it to the Bank for comments by the end of 1985, and
implement it thereafter; and (ii) implement a locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance action program and a track
maintenance action program (para. 52).



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) RFFSA to:  (i) implement a planning and munagement
development action plan, including a management training
program; (ii) regularly update its rolling investment plan
through evaluation methods and criteria satisfactory to the
Bank; (iii) refrain from undertaking any investment unless
it is justified according to the agreed methods and
criteria; and (iv-) exchange views with the Bank on its
investment and financing plans (para. 53).
(f) The Government, through MT, to undertake a transport
coordination program for the Southeast corridors (para. 54).
(g) RFFSA to achieve operational and financial performance
targets and aim to recover, by the end of 1992, all the
costs, including depreciation and interest, from operating
revenues (para. 58).



-s 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
; ~~ ~ ~ ~ -    -.                               o
:- |~ ~ -
SC UTH
b   |  AM  RiCA                                BRAZIL
RAILROADS.
Regional Supermt.nlencies
HA pretc                       iJ-  5R-1 R%cft
or@a                                    SR-2 BvI o                                                               U kIauis
® -  @- S>R-S Sao IhUb
____ ____ ____ ____ __             -      SR-   Curllb
® - i)    SR-6 FboP Ab gi.
__. _ 0-    5R-7 Saiedar o,                                Sa.d...
TraFfic S5qagwkded
-~~ P~ FEPASA                                     e  '           /
______    I EFVM                                    --        ______
*_^_t..Wr.- ,                                       Intg.matonal Boundarie
A.~ ~~                                       @       -    . -  ;
;1                                       _B        FRAOScO  {JA
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
o    \                                   gi,,-,d           \ /                         /.,- ,as          _  -.-O.
Yb                                                                  )                             --:!  -           :-O50
20- X,-__1_ S, E\ \¢ > .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
PARAGUA Y °
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- r y
URUGUAY'(
-1             .do-g   @                 M                                [.






