Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15110
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2563-BR)
MARCH 1, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Loan 2563-BR)
Currency Equivalents
US$1  =Cr$ 5.738 average of 1985 (Cruzeiro)
= Cz$ 13.84 average of 1986 (Cruzado)
= Cz$ 39.18 average of 1987 (Cruzado)
= Cz$262.84 average of 1988 (Cruzado)
= Cr$ 2.84 average of 1989 (New Cruzado
= Cr$68.95 average of 1990 (New Cruzado)
= Cr$408.78 average of 1991 (New Cruzado)
= Cr$4,498.62 average of 1992 (New Cruzado)
= CR$88.45 average of 1993 (Cruzero Real)
= CR$0.93 average of 1994 (Cruzero Real)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measurements
Metric: British/US equivalent
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (ml)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 lbs. (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 2,205 pounds
I liter (L) = 0.26US gallon (gal)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BNDES              Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
National Economnic and Social Development Bank
CBTU               Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
ClIP               Conselho Interministerial dos Pre,os
Interministerial Committee for Price Control
CTC                Centralized Traffic Control
CVRD               Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Rio Doce Valley Company
EBTU               Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EFVM               Estrada de Ferro Vit6ria-Minas
Vitoria-Minas Railway Company
EMBRATEL           Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunica,coes
FEPASA             Ferrovia Paulista S.A.
Sao Paulo Railway
GEIPOT             Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
TNPC               Indice Nacional de Pre,os ao Consumidor
National Consumer Price Index
MBR                Minera,ces Brasileiras Reunidas
United Brazilian Mining Company
MIS                Management Information System
MT                 Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
P.N.D.             Plano Nacional de Desestatiza,ao
PORTOBRAS          Empresa de Portos do Brasil S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA              Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SAP                Bank Special Action Program
SEPLAN             Secretaria de Planejamento
Federal Planning Secretariat
SIGO               Development and Implementation of Operational Management Systems
SR-2               Superintendencia Regional de Belo Horizonte
SR-5               Superintendencia Regional de Curitiba
SUNAMAM            Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Marine
TELEMIG            Telecomunicacoes de Minas Gerais S/A
TKM                Ton-Kilometers
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wibhout World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2563-BR)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................. . .     .. .                 .      .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
Introduction .ii
Project Objectives .ii
Implementation Experience and Results.... iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ...... iv
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .I
A. Project Objectives                           ..I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                        ...2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................ ..6
D. Project Sustainability ...............6
E. Bank Performance .............................,. .. . . . .,.6
F. Borrower's Performance                          .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                           ..9
H. Future Operation                             ..9
I. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .12
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3. Project Timetable .15
Table 4. Loan Credit Disbursements .16
Tables 5 & 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation and Implementation .17
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8A. Project Cost .21
Table 8B. Project Financing ....................... 22
Table 9A. Economic Costs and Benefits .23
Table 9B. RFFSA Financial Results .24
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11. Bank Resources .27
Table 12. Bank Resources-Missions .........................      ,           28



APPENDICES  .................................................................................................................. 30
A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR.30
B.  M ap  IBRD   No.  18760   .........................                                                                                              36



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Loan 2563-BR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Federal Railway
Export Corridor Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2563-BR in the amount of US$200
million equivalent was approved on May 30, 1985. The Loan was closed on December
31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on March 5, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$5,576,937.01 was cancelled.
2.    The ICR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Urban Development Division,
Country Department I, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region and was reviewed
by Mr. Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser, LAIDR. Mr. Asif Faiz, Chief LAIIU,
authorized release of the ICR.
3.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision/completion
mission from January 23 to 27, 1995. It is based on project reports and material in the
project files. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing facts,
figures and views reflected in the report and by commenting on the draft ICR. The
Borrower's contribution is included as Appendix A to this ICR.






i.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Loan 2563-BR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The project was the fifth in a series of related loans supported by the Bank in
Brazil. The cost of the Federal Railway Export Corridor Project was estimated to be
US$422.0 million, with a Bank Loan of US$200 million equivalent. Final project costs
were US$373.4 million, with US$194.4 million disbursed from the Bank Loan.
Project Objectives
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Loan Agreement (LA),
project objectives were:
* the financial rehabilitation and improved commercial performance of the
Federal Railway System; and
* increased transport efficiency in the two export corridors of Parand and Goias-
Minas Gerais.
Through the achievement of these objectives, the project was to contribute to a
more efficient resource use in the transport sector, and to a reduction of public sector
deficits. In addition, it was to facilitate exports, particularly the export of grains and grain
products and certain industrial products from Parana, Mato Grosso do Sul (Corridor 1),
and from Goias and Minas Gerais (Corridor 2).
To support the project's objectives, loan proceeds were to finance: (i) a policy
development and institutional component which, through the use of action plans, would
address company-wide and sectoral issues; and (ii) an investment component which,
through strategically located investments, would improve transport operations in the two
export corridors.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
The project had wide coverage, reaching through its institutional component the
entire gamut of the Federal Railway (RFFSA) operations, and through the investment
component two of the most important corridors of the railway network. The internal rate
of return on the investments (IERR) was 25.7% for the Parand Corridor and 16.6% for
the Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor (para. 25) compared with the appraisal estimates of 24%
and 18% respectively for the two corridors.
Project implementation was delayed by five years due to:  (i) a marked
deterioration in the macro-economic situation during the project period; and (ii) political
factors leading to frequent changes in the administration and management of RFFSA.
These two elements combined to slow down investments, restrain traffic increases and
restrict freedom in increasing tariffs. The result was that the financial improvement
forecast did not materialize, although several cost reductions and operating improvements
came about as a result of the implementation of the action plans and the investments.
Final project costs were US$373.4 million, compared with US$422 million planned at
appraisal. The project took nine years to implement instead of four years, mainly due to a
shortage of Government counterpart funds and RFFSA's management weaknesses (para.
10). The reduced size of the project resulted from agreement at mid-term to modify the
project scope by: (i) reducing the level and pace of investments; and (ii) increasing the
Bank's share of financing for civil works and technical assistance.
The deterioration of the Brazilian economy and the political and management
changes significantly affected the achievement of the objectives of the project. Moreover,
financial improvements were quite limited. On the other hand the continuity of Bank staff
in supervision helped in the effective implementation of the project. Important cost
reductions were also made. The staff strength of RFFSA was reduced from 67,500 in
1985 to 44,600 in 1994, significantly improving staff productivity. Nearly 1,500 kms. of
unprofitable lines and 218 stations were closed. Intercity passenger services were almost
entirely eliminated, and the Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU) was created
within the urban train system. RFFSA gained authorization to set tariffs (although its
implementation was hindered by the macroeconomic stabilization programs). Traffic in
the two corridors increased, despite the downturn in the economy (para. 11). As a result,
the investments in the export corridors brought about substantial improvements in the
system (paras. 11 and 12), whereas the institutional component brought about only limited
improvements (para. 13) but nonetheless led the Government and RFFSA to initiate a
serious effort to restructure and privatize rail transport. This effort aims to restructure
RFFSA operations into six regional systems, and foresees the transfer of major rail
operations and maintenance to private concessionaires.
Bank performance on the whole was satisfactory, especially during project
preparation and supervision (paras. 16-19). Borrower performance started well with good
project preparation in close collaboration with the Bank, but was unsatisfactory during



iv
project implementation largely due to the adverse macro-economic situation and the
frequent changes in the management of the railways (paras. 22-23).
.Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Project implementation was delayed by five years because of political interference,
counterpart funding problems, and suspension of disbursements. Clearly the political risks
were underestimated at appraisal, as was also the deterioration of the macro-economic
situation. However, despite the delays and difficulties leading to the less than satisfactory
implementation of the project, the project outcome as a whole can be rated as partially
satisfactory based on an evaluation of the achievements of the objectives. Of the two
principal objectives of the project, the achievement in one, the improvement of the export
corridors, was significantly attained.  For the other, the financial rehabilitation and
improvement of the commercial performance of the railway as a whole, this objective was
achieved only to a limited extent. This was not only because of the macro-economic and
political situation, but also because the institutional component of the project did so little
to fundamentally restructure the railway entity.  In the light of these factors it was
somewhat ambitious to expect that a project that aimed to make investments only in two
export corridors of a large and extensive railway system would result in improvements in
finances and operations systemwide to the extent foreseen at appraisal. Clearly there was
a mismatch between the investments and the financial improvements expected, which was
aggravated by the economic and political developments. In retrospect, and with the
benefit of hindsight, it would appear that a parallel-track approach may have been
preferable, in which a well-designed technical assistance project might have addressed the
institutional and financial aspects, with the export corridor project directed at
modernization of railway operations in the two export corridors within the framework of
regional intermodal transport. In fact, this is what came to pass. One of the results of the
project under review was that it led to a serious effort at the reorganization, restructuring
and privatization of RFFSA which was initiated in 1993 and is currently in progress.
Continued strengthening and restructuring of the railway system through the pursuit of the
objectives of the project under review, and through a proposed follow up railway
restructuring and privatization project, would improve the sustainability of this project.
Overall, therefore, the project experience has been worthwhile, since it provided useful
lessons to help guide the design and implementation of railway reform in Brazil.
Any Bank support for future operations of this kind should be based on a realistic
assessment of the macro-economic and political risks.  The main lessons for future
projects are that:
(i)   although there were shortfalls in the implementation of the project, the
experience was altogether positive, and steered the railway and the
Government towards the current restructuring effort and the proposed
concessioning of railway operations;



v
(ii)   the project was ambitious in its expectations and anticipated systemwide
improvements through investments in two export corridors of an extensive
railway system. In retrospect, it appears that a parallel-track approach
would have been preferable, with the Export Corridor project
concentrating on the export corridors and a parallel technical assistance
operation addressing the institutional and financial aspects.
(iii)   a major restructuring of the railway, including substantial participation of
the private sector, is essential to bring about the creation of a commercially
viable entity and to end the public sector deficit;
(iv)   the unreserved support and continued commitment of the Government is a
prerequisite for the success of the restructuring effort;
(v)    railway restructuring is a time-consuming and contentions process in
which: (a) critical decisions in regard to the policy and its implementation
are productive only if they emanate from a consensus within the country;
and (b) real benefits are obtained by the utilization of the services of
authoritative and impartial bodies (including consultants) and by entrusting
the planning and definition of policy choices to such entities.
(vi)   continuance of railway operations entirely within the public sector is a
recipe for the demise of this essential mode of inter-urban freight
transportation; and
(vii)  future Bank railway lending, if any, should be confined to the support of
deregulation, restructuring and privatization of the railway system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Loan 2563-BR)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were:
.  to assist RFFSA in its transformation into a commercially-oriented freight-
based railway operation, including its financial rehabilitation and improved
commercial performance; and
-  to increase transport efficiency in the export corridors of Parana and Goias -
Minas Gerais.
2.    The SAR reflected an expectation that by achieving these objectives, the project
would contribute to a more efficient resource use of the transport sector through the
continued and enhanced specialization of the railway in services for which it had a
comparative advantage over road transport, and through a reduction in the public sector
deficit. It would also facilitate exports, particularly of grains and grain products, from the
states of Parana and Mato Grosso do Sul, and from isolated areas in the Goias and Minas
Gerais region. In addition to supporting the rationale of the project, which was consistent
with the rationale underlying Brazil's stabilization program, the Bank would, by extending
the Loan, provide vital support to RFFSA and the Government to turn the federal railway
into a commercially viable freight carrier through the implementation of appropriate
policies and action plans.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project design was basically simple. It had a
policy development and institutional component, which through its action plans addressed
the company-wide sectorial issues, and an investment component, covering improvements
in two export corridors.
4.    The  policy  and  institutional  development  component  comprised  the
implementation of policies and action plans for: (a) cost savings, rationalization of railway
operations and network, and the improvement of the system for normalization payments
for the lines and services which proved not viable; (b) the restructuring and adjustment of
tariffs, and improvement of cost-accounting and marketing functions; (c) improvements in
the efficiency of operations and maintenance activities; (d) strengthening of RFFSA's
planning, management and training systems; and (e) improving transport and inter-railroad



2
coordination in the southeast corridors. The investment component was designed to
improve the functioning of the two export corridors by investments in carefully chosen
works of rehabilitation, improvements in technology and systems, and procurement of
spare parts and machinery to upgrade maintenance.
5.     A re-evaluation of the objectives after the implementation of the project leads to
two principal observations: First, the investment objectives aimed to carry out specific
investments to rehabilitate the railway facilities, and as such were quite enthusiastically
"owned" and pursued by RFFSA (to the extent funds permitted). However, the policy and
institutional improvements together with the action plans, were, at least in hindsight,
overambitious, were reluctantly accepted, and inadequately implemented. This was partly
due to adverse macro-economic and political developments.  Secondly, although the
policy and institutional objectives, in targeting cost savings, tariff adjustments and
strengthening of RFFSA's cost-accounting management and marketing functions.
followed the regular pattern of Bank-financed railway investment to date, no drastic
restructuring or privatization of essential railway functions was considered in this project'.
As such, nothing spectacular happened in this area during this project, although the
dialogue generated during the implementation of this project has contributed to the
preparation of a Restructuring and Privatization Project (paras. 6, 13, and 26).
B.    Achievement of Objectives
6.     The investments were localized in the two export corridors, and produced
significant improvements in the traffic and operations of the two export corridors. On the
other hand, the policy and institutional component of the project had a wider coverage and
affected the entire federal railway system, although on a scale substantially more modest
than forecast at appraisal. Financial improvements were limited, largely because of the
economic downturn which restrained traffic volumes, slowed investments and prevented
tariff adjustments to the extent planned at appraisal. However, significant cost reductions
were made and the staff strength of RFFSA was reduced from 67,500 in 1985 to 44,600 in
19942. As a result, staff productivity improved significantly. A total of 1500 kms of
unprofitable lines and 218 stations were closed, and several uneconomic services were
This project was prepared during the period 1980-1984. At this time the Bank had some accumulated
experience of railway projects, and a serious discussion had already taken place on the "Railway
Problem". As a result of these discussions there was no doubt about the basic objective of
commercially oriented operation of railways, but in a sense the approach to the solution of the railway
problem was cumulative rather than drastic, and the Bank's lexicon for reordering of railways did not
vet include "restructuring" and "privatization" as the treatment for the railway malady. The ten-year
period following 1985 has, on the other hand, witnessed considerable activity in the privatization of
railways, both in Europe and in Latin America, and restructuring in one form or the other has now
come to be expected as the norm. However, this was not the case when this project was appraised.
This is relevant because in a sense, the Bank's attitude to railways has also undergone a gradual
evolution, from the conventional investment/rehabilitation projects of the Seventies to the somewhat
more strident target oriented projects of the Eighties, and finally to the Restructuring and
Privatization Projects of the Nineties.
2 This is particularly significant because it followed an important reduction in staff from 109,295 in 1975
to 67,500 in 1985.



3
discontinued. Inter-city passenger services were almost entireiy eliminated. Separation of
the urban trains activities into the CBTU was achieved as a condition to proceed with this
project. RFFSA achieved tariff freedom (although macroeconomic stabilization programs
limited its implementation). Overall, there was a substantial increase of the railway's share
of transport demand in the two corridors. More than anything else, the implementation of
this project marked the turning point in the commitment of RFFSA and the Government to
a process of restructuring and privatization of railway activities. As a result, RFFSA has
taken the first firm steps towards privatization, which are being pursued under a separate
initiative with the participation of the Bank (paras 13, 25 and 26).
7.    Physical Components: The investment component for the Goias-Minas Gerais
and the Parana corridors included the: (a) rehabilitation of track and infrastructure; (b)
improvement of traffic control and telecommunications systems on the sections with high
traffic density; (c) rehabilitation and improvement of yards, workshops and service
facilities; and (d) improvement of intermodal facilities. All these actions were supported
by the procurement of carefully selected equipment, machinery, civil works and services
financed from the Bank loan.
8.    The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated to be US$422 million including
the civil works, materials, equipment and technical assistance, of which US$200 million
was to be financed from the Bank loan (47%), two loans from BNDES totaling US$54
million (13%), a suppliers' credit of US$7.6 million (2%), and US$118 million (28%)
from RFFSA's own resources.
9.    During the implementation of the project, changes were made in project scope
which were associated with the worsening economic conditions in the country. These
changes, while maintaining the development objectives of the project, effectively reduced
the level and pace of the investments by redefining the project, and increased the Bank's
participation in the project from 47% to 52% by increasing the participation in the civil
works and technical assistance.
10.   The project, which was to be implemented from 1985 to 1989, was actually started
in 1986 for completion in 1991. The Closing Date was postponed three times, for
completion in 1992, 1993 and finally 1994, almost entirely due to delays occasioned by the
economic deterioration of the country and at times ineffective project management caused
by frequent changes in personnel. When the project was finally closed in December 1994,
it cost US$373.4 million compared with the Appraisal forecast of US$422 million.
Notwithstanding the delays, the investments were efficiently supervised, and effectively
implemented at costs lower than appraisal estimates.
11.   The implementation of the project covering the two export corridors of Parand and
Goias-Minas Gerais brought about the following improvements:
(a)   Rehabilitation of the track and improvement of infrastructure.



4
(b)   Construction of new rail yards in Mathias Leme and Rio Negro, and the
expansion and rehabilitation of existing yards.
(c)   Introduction of a modern telecommunications system with fiber optics,
including a creative partnership with the private sector by leasing its right
of way, and an advanced signaling system with centralized control (CTC).
(d)   Introduction of a modern management information system.
(e)   Procurement of spare parts and machinery for maintenance of track and
rolling stock.
As a result of the above factors, traffic in the two corridors increased from 24.3 million
tons in 1985 to 27.5 million tons in 1994, despite the downturn in the economy. In
particular, the grain and grain products traffic increased from 5.48 million tons to 7.36
million tons during the same period.
12.   On the operational side, utilization of locomotives improved from 61% in 1985 to
63.4% in 1994, the kilometers run by freight locomotives increased from 54,800 per year
to 69,800. The availability of locomotives, measured as the percentage of locomotives in
good order, deteriorated from 73% in 1985 to 66.6% in 1994 as the average age of
locomotives in the system increased and as spare parts were procured only intermittently,
due to the budgetary restrictions imposed by the deteriorating economic situation.
13.   Institutional Component. Here the project aimed at the improvement of the
financial situation of the railway and finally, as a long-term objective, at the management
of the railway system to ensure better performance. This was to be done by reducing the
rail deficit and by specializing the railway in the services in which it has a comparative
advantage over road transport. The implementation of these objectives was channeled
into two main streams of effort:
(a)   Commercial Orientation of RFFSA: Under this category the following
notable changes occurred:
(i)    Separation of CBTU as a pre-condition to proceed with the project
(ii)    Closure of 2250 kms of intercity passenger services
(iii)    Closure of 1483 km of uneconomic lines and 218 stations
(iv)    Development and implementation of operational management
systems (SIGO)
(v)    Freedom to set tariffs, although its implementation was limited due
to the macroeconomic stabilization programs
(b)   Improvement of Finances: A review of the Federal Railway performance
(see para. 14) during the project period reveals that financial performance
remained consistently poor due to:
(i)    The deterioration of the macro-economic situation, which
restrained traffic growth and inhibited tariff adjustments



5
(ii)    Political instability and government intervention in the affairs of the
public sector railway; and
(iii)    Frequent changes in RFFSA management.
As a result, RFFSA continued to generate substantial annual operating losses, which were
exacerbated by the unstable macro-economic situation. The Government in 1992 decided
to initiate the privatization and restructuring of RFFSA operations in order to improve the
efficiency of rail transport. Although privatization of RFFSA was not part of the original
project design, the Bank dialogue with RFFSA and the Government encouraged the
restructuring and privatization options, due in part to the fact that financial improvements
were not taking hold. The project's success at physical improvements also supported the
privatization process by helping RFFSA to become more attractive as a private entity,
because essential physical works that the private owners would have had to undertake
were carried out under the project. This was perhaps the most far-reaching indirect result
of the project. BNDES prepared, and the Inter-ministerial Council responsible for the
privatization program recently approved, RFFSA's restructuring and privatization plan.
This plan restructures RFFSA operations into six regional systems, and, more importantly,
foresees the transfer of operations and maintenance to private concessionaires who would
lease necessary assets from RFFSA. The project (currently estimated to cost US$360
million) is expected to be supported by a proposed Bank Loan that would assist RFFSA,
the Government and BNDES in effective implementation of the plan.
14.   Financial Performance: The financial performance targets set during appraisal
and modified during project implementation were not met by RFFSA (see Table 9b). In
spite of the implementation of the costing and marketing systems and liberalization of tariff
setting, increases in tariffs dictated by the costing system were not permitted by the
Government, which saw tariff increases as inflationary.  In addition, normalization
payments3 and closure of uneconomic services were delayed because of budgetary and
political reasons respectively. However, the biggest loss to RFFSA was the general
downturn in the economy, which reduced traffic volumes substantially below the appraisal
estimates. Delays in the implementation of the investment program also contributed to the
general deterioration of the system which reduced the availability of motive power and
rolling stock. RFFSA responded to these challenges by cutting down its costs, mainly
personnel, and postponing maintenance and refurbishing of equipment. The railway also
formed creative partnerships with the private sector to gain additional telecommunication
capacity by leasing its right-of-way. The financial targets set at the time of the appraisal
were optimistic and did not foresee either the economic downturn or problems related to
the availability of counterpart resources and the frequent changes in the management of
RFFSA. The Bank accepted changes in the general business environment and revised the
financial targets, but by then a market deterioration had already set in. It is significant
however that without the project, financial performance would have been even worse as
3 Normalization payments refer to a special funds allocation from the Government as compensation for the
losses on commercially non-viable services that RFFSA performed at the Government's request in
respect of long-distance passenger transportation and freight.



6
the traffic increases realized in the export corridors supported by the project would not
have materialized. It is also this failure to turn the railway around within the scope of
public management that impelled the Government to consider transferring the railway
increasingly to the private sector.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The two major factors that affected the execution of the project were: i) a marked
deterioration of the macro-economic situation during the project period; and ii) political
factors leading to frequent changes in the administration and management of RFFSA.
These two factors are inter-related. The worsening of the economic situation directly
affected the traffic volumes and prevented the attainment of the traffic targets forecast at
appraisal. In addition, the financial stringency imposed by the economic deterioration
slowed the rhythm of the investments as counterpart funds were not available, and
prevented the increase in tariffs planned at appraisal. Politically-motivated changes in the
management and adrninistration of the Railways occurred eleven times during the ten-year
period of execution of the project. This seriously affected decision-making processes at
the highest levels in railway administration. The combined effect of slower investments
restraining capacity development, lower traffic, inadequate increases in tariffs, frequent
changes in management leading to indecision and delays, resulted in deterioration in the
financial situation of the railway, despite the improvements in the two export corridors
supported by the Bank-financed investments.
D.    Project Sustainability
16.   Continued substantial strengthening of the railway administration through the
pursuit of objectives initiated during this project and concessioning of operations to the
private sector, as well as the government's current commitment to the restructuring of the
railway sub-sector, augur well for the sustainability of this project. The sustainability is
further enhanced by the increasing awareness of the need for allocation of adequate
financing for railway investments to ensure proper maintenance of the infrastructure.
While the sustainability will be clearly enhanced by the privatization actions following the
closing of the project, the overall sustainability is uncertain.
E.    Bank Performance
17.   Project Identification  and Preparation:   Satisfactory.   This project was
identified in 1978, appraised in 1984, approved by the Board in May 1985 and became
effective in October 1985 (Table 3). From identification to appraisal, the project and
project issues were progressively defined through a set of twelve project briefs in the six
year period from the first identification in April 1978 to appraisal in November/December
1984. Several postponements of the Appraisal date initially set for early 1979 took place
because the Bank insisted on clear definition of policy and action plans to resolve the main



7
issues including tariffs, normalization payments4 and debt in addition to the full data and
studies to justify the investments. A Presidential Decree in December 1984 (during
appraisal) finally provided the railways with (a) full authority to set tariffs as of 1989; (b) a
legal framework for normalization payments; and (c) full responsibility for closure of
unremunerative services not subject to normalization payments.  In addition, the
separation of CBTU from RFFSA was agreed during negotiations (in April 1985) for
completion by the end of 1985.
18.   Project Appraisal: Marginally satisfactory. Despite the large amount of time
spent in project preparation (276 staff weeks) and appraisal (65 staff weeks), project
implementation fell far short of expectations because the political risks and the macro-
economic deterioration were under-estimated (although to what extent these could have
been anticipated at appraisal is debatable). The project design was simple despite the high
expectations from the project.  In retrospect, it would seem that the system-wide
improvements expected in finances and operations were overoptimistic in the light of the
fact that investments were to be made only in the two export corridors. Clearly there was
a mismatch between the investments and the financial and operational improvements
anticipated, which was aggravated by the adverse economic and political developments.
In retrospect, and with the benefit of hindsight, it would appear that a parallel-track
approach may have been preferable, in which a well-designed technical assistance project
might have addressed the institutional and financial aspects, with the Export Corridor
Project directed at modernization of railway operations in the two export corridors within
the framework of intermodal transport.
19.   Supervision:  Satisfactory. The continuity of essential Bank staff involved in
project preparation, appraisal and supervision made for constructive dialogue and support
between RFFSA, the Government and the Bank on one side and provides compensation
for light supervision on the other. The attitude of the Bank was also flexible, and when
the need arose, the Bank responded by increasing the percentage of participation within
the Loan amount originally approved. In May 1991, a Bank mission took stock of the
delays in project execution and carried out a detailed review to seek agreement on a
corrective action program. At this stage, the project was running well behind the appraisal
schedule, and important investments such as the signaling component were badly delayed.
Considering that the original completion date for the project was December 31, 1989, it
was agreed to reformulate the project and to reduce its scope in accordance with the
available counterpart funds. The intermodal grain terminals were withdrawn from the
project (to be financed by the private sector), the track, signaling and telecommunications
investments were trimmed by deleting the lower priority items, and project estimates were
reduced from the appraisal estimate of US$422 million to about US$365 million. The
project was eventually completed at $373.4 million.
4Payments by the Government to compensate for uneconomic services.



8
20.   The Bank also reacted strongly when it perceived important loan covenants were
not being implemented. In August 1991, the Bank mission to Brazil noted insufficient
progress in the project, and in view of non-compliance with covenants in the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements related mainly to delays in rationalizing the Borrower's public
service obligations and in providing counterpart funds and normalization payments, the
Bank suspended, effective August 16, 1991, disbursements from the Loan. Disbursements
remained suspended until December 13, 1991 when, on the basis of assurances from the
Borrower and a well-defined action plan to implement further cost saving measures, the
Bank restored the Borrower's right to withdraw from the Loan. On December 26, 1991,
the Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1991 was extended to December 31, 1992. Later
the Closing Date was extended by another two years to December 31, 1994.
F. Borrower Performance
21.   Preparation and Appraisal:  Satisfactory.  Stimulated by the Bank over a
preparation period of over six years (and 12 Project Briefs), the Borrower produced a
credible analysis of and justification for the investments in the two export corridors.
Likewise, the Action Plans to bring about the implementation of the project, together with
the improvements in the entity forecast at appraisal, were prepared in considerable detail
and in close consultation with the Bank. It is pertinent to note that this was the first
project in which the Railway itself did the evaluation of the investments, as earlier this
work had been done by the National Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT).
22.   Implementation:  Unsatisfactory. Marred by the economic downturn in the
country and severely restricted by the Government's economic stabilization program,
project implementation was grossly impaired. In addition, frequent political changes in the
management and administration of RFFSA (eleven times during the project period)
seriously affected decision-making.  The slow  speed of investments delayed the
rehabilitation of the infrastructure, motive power and rolling stock, making recovery
slower than forecast at appraisal. The lack of counterpart funds, the inadequacy of the
normalization payments, and the inability of the Borrower to raise tariffs were the direct
results of the Government's economic stabilization program, and together prevented the
financial recovery of RFFSA. The plans of action had been accepted by the Borrower but
could not be fully implemented.
23.   Compliance with Loan Covenants: Deficient. The status of implementation of
the major legal covenants is given in Table 10. Non-compliance or partial compliance was
a problem throughout most of the implementation period, reaching a peak in 1991 when a
large number of contractual obligations were in non-compliance and loan disbursements
were suspended. Although compliance improved when loan disbursements were resumed,
the overall performance was still below expectation at appraisal.



9
G.    Assessment of Outcome
24.   Overall rating:  Satisfactory.  Although implementation was unsatisfactory for
much of the project's duration, the overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The
satisfactory project rating is based on the evaluation of achievement of project objectives.
There were two basic objectives. The first pertained to the investments and improvements
to the two export corridors. This was clearly achieved, for despite the delays, the
investments were completed and capacity improvements did take place as demonstrated by
the spurt in traffic in the two corridors. The increase in traffic was limited by the
economic situation, but was nonetheless significant. As for the second major objective
(institutional improvements), the Action Plans resulted in significant reductions in staff,
closures of uneconomic lines, closure of passenger services and rationalization of
workshops and rail yards. Above everything else the project led to the realization that a
major restructuring of the railway was needed to bring about improvement in the railway's
finances, and the Bank is assessing possible assistance for this restructuring effort through
the proposed Federal Railway Restructuring and Privatization Project.
25.   The internal rate of return on the investments (IERR) is estimated to be 25.7% for
the Parana corridor economic and 16.6% for the Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor (Table 9A),
compared with the appraisal estimates of 24% for the Parana Corridor and 18% for the
Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor. This reinforces the decision to classify the project outcome
as satisfactory.
H.    Future Operation
26.   The key to the future sustainability of this project is in the hands of the
Government of Brazil and the Federal Railway. To the extent the railway organization can
be effectively re-structured to improve its operations and finances, which are objectives of
the proposed Federal Railway Restructuring and Privatization Project, the sustainability of
this project would be enhanced. The railway has come a long way since RFFSA was
created in 1957 by consolidating under Federal jurisdiction 18 formerly privately-owned
and operated railways. But RFFSA's performance has been consistently poor. During
most of its history RFFSA has generated substantial operating losses, which have been
exacerbated in recent years by the unstable macro-economic environment. For this reason
the Government's decision to restructure and privatize RFFSA's operations is timely. The
proposed project would have as its objectives:
(a)   The  restructuring  and  transfer of RFFSA  operations to  private
concessionaires;
(b)   The establishment of a regulatory framework and commission to foster
competition and limit regulatory intervention and public service
regulations;
(c)    The improvement of labor productivity through a staff adjustment program
based on incentives for voluntary retirement, redeployment and training;



10
(d)   The financial and organizational restructuring of RFFSA to settle debts and
labor liabilities, sell non-operational assets, and manage operational assets;
(e)    Adequate financing for railway investments and public service obligations.
27.   Preliminary experience around the world with the concessioning of railway
services shows that many of the problems can be effectively addressed through rigorous
cost-cutting and through concession of operation and maintenance functions to the private
sector within an appropriate regulatory framework, which are the essentials of the future
railway operation proposed for Brazil.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
28.   The lessons learned, discussed below, underscore the linkages between project
success and project design, ownership, the railways' and the Government's role, local
funding, capability constraints and the macro-economic climate.
29.   Project Design. The project design was basically simple, with an institutional
component and an investment component, together with Action Plans. However although
the investment part of the project design was clear-cut and specific, the institutional and
policy side lacked a significant restructuring component for the railway. Bank experience
with railway projects is beginning to show that mere exhortations to cut costs, raise tariffs
and improve efficiency do not bring about the required improvements unless deep-seated
transformations are brought about in the organizational structure involving basic changes
in the attitudes of managers.  Also, it has been evident that whereas changing the
institution is a sine qua non of progress in the railways, it has also been increasingly
apparent that this cannot be brought about without increasing significantly the role of the
private sector in their management. This project had the investments and the Action plans
to operate the railways on a commercial basis including normalization payments for public
service obligations, but the lesson learned was that government intervention could not be
contained due to public ownership. The design of this project had an important investment
component, to which the institutional and policy component became only an appendage.
There was in effect no real attempt to reorganize or redesign the institution, and therefore
nothing significant happened in this area. All this reinforced the need for the privatization
approach. Substantial cost reductions (para. 6) and a continuous dialogue with the Bank
contributed to the preparation of the proposed Restructuring and Privatization Project.
30.   Project Ownership.   The importance of project ownership by both the
implementing agency (RFFSA) and the Government cannot be over-emphasized. For
important projects involving significant cost-cutting operations, efficiency improvements
and important revenue increases, the success of the project is highly dependent upon the
presence and support of a champion.  During project preparation, ownership was
strengthened by having RFFSA and the government jointly prepare the project (rather than
GEIPOT as in the case of the previous projects). During appraisal and negotiations the
Government and RFFSA signed on all the Action Plans, but subsequent changes in the
Government, followed by repeated reshuffles in the RFFSA management, prevented the



11
Government, followed by repeated reshuffles in the RFFSA management, prevented the
managers from effectively "owning" and pursuing the changes planned with regard to the
institutional and policy improvements. The investments, on the other hand, although
delayed due to shortage of counterpart funds, were effectively and unequivocally
implemented, thus resulting in significant improvements in rail operations.
31.   The main lessons to be learned from this project are that:
(i)    although there were shortfalls in the implementation of the project under
review, the cost and efficiency improvements that took place together with
the attendant dialogue with the Bank, steered the project towards the
preparation of a restructuring and privatization project with a deeper
thrust;
(ii)   the Export Corridor Project was overambitious in its expectations and
anticipated systemwide improvements through investments in two export
corridors of an extensive railway system. In retrospect it appears that a
parallel track approach would have been preferable, with a parallel project
concentrating on the institutional and financial aspects, leaving the Export
Corridor Project to take care of the export corridors' performance.
(iii)   a major restructuring and redesign of the railway, with the participation of
the private sector, is a must to bring about the creation of a commercially
viable entity and to end the public sector deficits that have plagued railway
systems around the world;
(iv)   the unreserved support and continued commitment of the governments is a
prerequisite for the success of the restructuring effort;
(v)   the critical decisions in regard to the policy and its implementation can be
productive only if they emanate from a consensus within the country;
(vi)  railway restructuring, particularly when it involves a large system like the
RFFSA, is a time-consuming and contentions process.  An important
element in many of the restructuring program for railways has been the use
of the services of authoritative and impartial bodies (including consultants),
and experience around the world clearly indicates that real benefits have
been gained by entrusting the planning and definition of policy choices to
such entities.
(vii)  continuance of railway operations entirely within the public sector is a
recipe for the demise of this essential mode of inter-urban freight
transportation; and
(viii)  future Bank railway lending, if any, should be confined to the support of
deregulation, restructuring and privatization of the railway system.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(Loan 2563-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial   Partial    Negligible  applicable
Macro policies                                   x
Sector policies                                  x
Financial objectives                             x
Institutional development                                    x
Physical objectives                   x
Poverty reduction                                                        x
Gender issues                                                            x
Other social objectives                                                  x
Environmental objectives                                                 x
Public sector management                                                 x
Private sector development                                               x
B. Project Sustainability              Likely    Unlikely    Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                   x
Preparation assistance                           x
Appraisal                                                    x
Supervision                                      x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                                               x
Covenant Compliance                                          x
E. Assessment of Outcome                            x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of       Amount                      Cancellation
Loan                    Title                Approval (in US$ million)  Status a/ (in US$ million)
L 0065-BR   Railway Rehabilitation                  1952            12.5            D
L 0786-BR   Railway                                 1971           46-0             D
L 1074-BR   Second Railway                          1975           175.0            D            0.99
IL 1171-BR   Third Railway                           1975           75.0            D             0.07
L 2563-BR   Fed. Railway & Exp. Corridor            1985           200.0            D             5.6
1 2857-BR   Fepasa Railway Rehab                    1987           100.0            U
---------------------------------------------------------------------_
1-            TOTAL                                                608.5
.,.I D: Disbursed, U: Under disbursement
Source: World Bank Statement of Loans



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date ActualV
Steps in Project Cycle    Date Planned    Date Revised     Latest Estimate
Identification                                                         10-Nov-77
Preparation                   29-May-78                                 14-Jan-85
Appraisal                      1-Sep-78        1-Nov-78                19-Nov-84
I-Jul-79
I-Oct-80
1 -Sep-84
Negotiations                                                           22-Apr-85
Board Approval                                                        30-May-85
Loan Signature                                                          22-Jul-85
Loan Amendment                                                         27-Oct-94
Loan Effectiveness             1-Sep-85                                22-Oct-85
Loan Closing                  31-Dec-91       31-Dec-92                31 -Dec-94
31-Dec-93
Expected Project              31 -Dec-89                               31-Dec-94
Completion
Source: Project Files



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in millions of US$)
IBRD Fiscal Year      :1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   l991    1992   1993   1994   1995
Appraisal Estimates a/       25.0    50.0   100.0   160.0  190.0   198.0  200.0
Actual Disbursements b/      15.2   30.3    52.0   97.8  112.8   115.0  122.2   150.4  178.5   194.4
Actual as % of Estimated     60.6    60.6    52.0   61.1    59.4   58.1    61.1    75.2    89.2    97.2
Date of Final Disbursement          5/4/95
a/ The original closing date of December 31, 1991 was postponed three times in order to complete 95% of the
investments included in the project.
b/ The amount of $5.6 million was cancelled.
Source: World Bank MIS and Project Files



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators           -          -
in SAR/Pregident's Report       :1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994
1. Infrastructure and Superstructure
Works                                           l       l        l      l
2. Purchase of Track Machinery
and_Equipment                                   l       l       l        l
3. Telecommunications and
Signalling Systems
4. Yards and Workshops
5. Intermodal Facilities                    |f
Component not implemented*
== =(= [
6. Technical Assistance
Estimated; - Actual
* The construction of intermodal facilities was withdrawn from the project when the project scope was updated, pursuant to the
Bank mission aide memnoires of January and April 1991. The intermodal facilities were implemented by the private sector.
Source: Project Files; RFFSA



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in  1985        1986        1987       1988        1989       1990        1991       1992        1993      :1994
SAR/President's Report    E    A    E    A    E    A    E    A    E    A    E    A    E_   A.   E    A    E    A    E... A.
l.NumberofStaff(in'OOOs       69.5  67.5  68.3  63.8  68.0  62.8  68.5  57.3  69.1  59.5  52.9  52.9  48.7  49.3  48.3  47.7  48.3  46.5  46.5  44.6
at year end)
2. Freight Locomotive Availability  81.0  73.0  82.0  72.0  83.0  68.0  84.0  66.4  85.0  66.4  85.0  62.6  62.6  62.9  62.9  62.7  62.7  67.1  67.1  66.6
(%)
3. Freight Locomotive Utilization   61.0  62.0  63.8  63.0  62.0  64.0  60.1  65.0  51.7  65.0  53.4  53.4  55.2  55.2  59.4  59.4  62.1  62.1  63.4
(%)
4. Freight Locomotive Mileage  54.8      58.4  64.5  60.2  67.0  62.1  62.1  65.7  65.8  65.7  64.0  64.0  67.9  67.9  71.8  71.8  72.4  72.4  69.8
('000 km p.a.)
5. Freight Locomotive Productivity  32.0  34.0  36.1  36.1  34.3  38.4  34.2  40.9  32.6  40.9  30.2  30.2  34.2  34.2  36.9  36.9  40.7  40.7  39.8
(million net ton-km p.a.)
6. Freight Wagon Availability  91.0  91.0  91.0  90.0  92.0  90.0  92.0  89.5  92.0  89.4  92.0  89.4  89.4  94.8  94.8  96.0  96.0  94.4  94.4  93.9 X
(%)
7. Freight Wagon Mileage      33.2       33.9  35.4  34.7  35.4  35.4  34.4  36.5  33.6  33.5  33.2  33.2  34.3  34.3  36.7  36.7  28.5  28.5  28.3
('000 km p.a.)
8. Wagon Turnaround Time       8.1        8.0  8.0  7.9  8.0  7.8  9.0  7.7  10.3  7.7  11.3  11.3  10.8  10.8  11.4  11.4  9.4  9.4  9.6
excl. MBR Traffic, in days)
9. Track Rehabilitation, km  111.0      287.0  76.0 477.0 152.0 477.0 513.0 239.0 179.0     239.5       237.5       233.4 144.0 134.0  59.0  72.6
E = Estimated; A = Actual
Source: Project Files; RFFSA
MBR is a privately held mining company with its own export facilities in Sepetiba, Rio de Janeiro



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                    at appraisal/redefine(d                Status                          Impact of Study
1. Management            To enhance the skills of management     Program completed.      1,200 managers trained throughouit RFFSA.
Development            staff in the areas of business manage-
Action Programn        ment, human resources, and manager
training.
2. Cost-Savings Action   To provide RFFSA with a cost system     Program completed.      RFSSA's cost systems have been improving steadilv
Program               that is suited to the company as a                              and the new system now in preparation. w ill use
provider of conmiercially-oriented                             operations data taken from the Management Infor-
railway services.                                              mation Svstem (MIS), and will become a training
tool for transport pricing.
3. Tariff Action Program    To ensure the commercial viability of  Program completed.   RFFSA's commercial departments benefited from
the company and maximize net profits                          this program with the adoption of tariff schedules
in the long term.                                              that better responded to the operating conditions for
transporting each type of commodity, its market price.
the region of operation, demand, and competitioll.
4. Operations            To develop and implement operations     The SIGO II module is  The ongoing benefits produced by the SIGO and the
Management             management systems for maintenance      in the final stages of    improvements already generated by SIGO II have
System (SIGO)         of rolling stock and the permanent way.  implementation, using   contributed greatly to raising the indicators and levcls
taking care to ensure that the systems  computer equipment     of RFFSA's productivity.
are consistent with RFFSA's overall     purchased in 1994.
automation plans.
5. Consolidation and     To streamline, specialize, and close    Program completed.      218 stations closed. for an estimated annual savings
Specialization of      stations in the Parana and Goias-Minas                         of US$2.2 million.
Commercial             Gerais corridors, revising procedures
Stations (PACEC)      with the aim of cutting costs by
eliminating overlapping services and
closing little-used services.



Table 7: Studies lncluded in Project
I ________--                   Purpose as dlerined
Study           __        at appraisalIredefined                  Status                           Im pact of Sttuh(v
6. Rev,altiation of       To establish the tnie value (based o0l   Prograi completed.      WVith tiie rcNaluation of RFFSA's fixed assets, the
Fixed Assets           current condition and status) of the                             company wvill now be able to provide guaranices
company's registered assets in the                               For loans.
areas of Permanent Way, Buildings.
and Railway Facilities and Equipment.
7. Indexation of Accounts  To institute an accounting subsystem    Program completed.      The first activity conducted under the program was
capable of generating full or summary                           the purchase of an on-line system equipped with
indexed balance sheets that make it                              modulcs that generate data in constant currency.
possible to examine results against                              The svstem is currently being customizcd so it can
standard indicators.                                            dovetail with parallel systems that generate the
necessary accounting interfaces in preparation for
the system switch-over.
8. Cost Control           To formulate a marketing strategy that   The studies for the     Since these studies were completed on December
and Marketing           focuses on RFFSA's key business          South and Southeast     31. 1994. their impact will be assessed once the
Action Programs        regions (South, Southeast, and Center-   regions were completed  rcspective recommendations are implemented.
East), outlining the company's position  oni December 31, 1994.
vis-a-vis the transportation market in   The studies for the
each region in light of the various      Center-East region are
structural changes under way in the      in the final stages. The
national and regional economies as       cost control action plan
well as within RFFSA itself. The cost    was completed on
control action plan will serve to        December 31, 1994.
underpin the marketing plans.
9. Cost Reduction         To streamline the RFFSA network and      Program partially       The commitments assumed in the government
and Account            operations by closing or cutting back    completed.              sphere have been partially met: 1,483 km of
Normalization          on passenger services that are not                               nonremunerative services have been closed, along
Program                commercially viable and closing                                  with 2,250 km of passenger services. Normalization
nonremunerative services.                                       payments were not made as scheduled under the
lagreement.
Source: RFFSA



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual (ITS$M)
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Item              Costs     Costs      Total      Costs      Costs     Total
1. Civil Works                  93.1      104.8     197.9       93. 7      44.7      138.4
2. Materials                    29.9       72.3      102.2      32.3       69.8      102.1|
3. Equipment                    23.0       86.6      109.6      36.1       64.9      101.0
4. Software                       1.2         -        1.2         -        1.8        1.8
5. Supervision and              11.1          -       11.1      16.9       13.2       30.11
Tecnical Assistance
_____________________ __________________________                                     37_______41__
Total                         158.3     263.7      422.0      179.0     194.4      373.4
Source: Project Files and RFFSA



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)              Actual (US$M)
Local   Foretin                 Local       Foreign    :
Source             Costs     Costs      Total      Costs        Coss      Total 
IBRD                            43.4      156.6     200.0      154.1         40.3      194.4
BNDES                           54.0          -      54.0       26.2            -       26.2
TREASURY                        42.0          -      42.0       32.4            -       32.4
RFFSA                          126.0          -      126.0     120.4            -      120.4
Total                        265.4      156.6      422.0     333.1         40.3      373.4
Source: Project Files and RFFSA



23
Table 9A: Economic Cost and Benefits
(i) GOIAS - MINAS GERAIS CORRIDOR
YEAR    INVESTMENTS        RAIL OPERATING COSTS            ROAD COSTS DIFFERENCE    TOTAL
With Project    Without Project
1985              0.00           97.02            97.02                      0.00        0.00
1986            -15.30          110.82           110.82                      0.00      -15.30
1987            -23.90          109.78           109.78                      0.00      -23.90
1988            -35.40          111.71           111.71                      0.00      -35.40
1989            -34.40          107.97           107.97                      0.00      -34.40
1990             -9.00           99.87            99.87                      0.00       -9.00
1991             -6.60           90.76            90.76                      0.00       -6.60
1992            -19.40           94.57           110.33                     21.04       17.40
1993            -29.90          101.10           121.76                     22.13       12.89
1994            -18.10          100.69           121.04                     22.00       24.25
1995                            102.83           124.78                     22.68       44.63
1996                            104.25           127.27                     23.13       46.15
1997                            105.91           130.18                     23.66       47.93
1998                            107.58           133.10                     24.19       49.71
1999                            109.24           136.01                     24.72       51.49
2000                            110.91           138.92                     25.25       53.26
2001                            112.57           141.84                     25.78       55.04
2002                            114.24           144.75                     26.31       56.82
2003                            115.90           147.66                     26.84       58.60
2004                            117.57           150.58                     27.37       60.38
2005                            119.23           153.49                      27.90      62.16
INVEST.TOTAL      192                        INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                16.58%
(ii) PARANA CORRIDOR
YEAR    INVESTMENTS        RAIL OPERATING COSTS            ROAD COSTS DIFFERENCE    TOTAL
With Project    Without Project
1985              0.00          160.86           160.86                      0.00        0.00
1986            -11.00          164.51           164.51                      0.00      -11.00
1987            -21.80          174.34           174.34                      0.00      -21.80
1988            -35.20          168.10           168.10                      0.00      -35.20
1989            -27.90          180.60           180.60                      0.00      -27.90
1990             -7.80          156.01           156.01                      0.00       -7.80
1991            -11.70          176.47           176.47                      0.00      -11.70
1992            -27.10          121.28           166.76                      6.41       24.79
1993            -18.80          128.00           180.84                      8.19       42.23
1994            -20.10          141.86           202.51                      9.17       49.72
1995                            144.34           207.70                      9.41       72.77
1996                            147.03           213.33                      9.66       75.96
1997                            150.94           221.52                     10.03       80.62
1998                            154.85           229.72                     10.40       85.28
1999                            158.76           237.92                     10.77       89.93
2000                            162.67           246.12                     11.15       94.59
2001                            166.59           254.31                     11.52       99.24
2002                            170.50           262.51                     11.89      103.90
2003                            174.41           270.71                     12.26      108.56
2004                            178.32           278.91                     12.63      113.21
2005                            182.24           287.10                     13.00      117.87
INVEST. TOTAL = 181.4                       INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                 25.74% 1
1 Compared with the Appraisal estimated IERR of 18% for the Goias-Minas Gerais Corrdor and 24% for the Parana Corridor



Table 9B: Financial Results
RFFSA - INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS
(US$ million)
Description                    1986                 1987                 1988                 1989            1990    1991      1992    1993    1994        1995
APPRAISAL ACTUAL  APPRAISAL ACTUAL  APPRAISAL ACTUAL  APPRAISAL ACTUAL ACTUAL ACTUAL ACTUAL  ACTUAL ACTUAL ESTIMATED
Operating Revenues
Freight    1,420.2    952.4     1,519.6   1,045.3    1,621.8  1,015.1     1,730.1   919.7   765.0   794.0    855.2   809.4   828.4       1,033.1
Passengers       18.5      18.6        17.7     18.6        16.8     12.7        16.1     8.9     7.5      5.9       4.2     2.3    2.6          2.3
Other       53.1      32.8        53.3     39.5        536      38.4        53.8    28.9    34.3      8.3      49.6    33.6    34.7       106.6
Sub-total   1,491.8   1,003.8     1,590.6   1,103.4    1,692.2  1,066.2     1,800.0   957.6   806.8   808.1    909.0  845.3   865.7        1,142.0
Normalization    255.7     227.4       249.0    235.9       243.9     87.7       239.4   176.3    65.7   101.1       12.8    26.6     9.2        19.6
Total Operating Revenue    1,747.4   1,231.1     1,839.6   1,339.3    1,936.1   1,153.9    2,039.4  1,133.9   872.5   909.2    921.7   871.9   874.9      1,161.6
Costs
Wages, Salaries     714.1     753.3      727.6    891.5       759.2    898.0       788.5   853.5   747.9   620.1    582.6   538.2   536.8          838.8
Fuel      285.8     171.7       303.7    141.3       320.8    134.8       338.8    86.0    81.3    76.3    100.9    89.4    98.6         157.2
Material     188.8     154.4      195.6    126.2       201.8      90.4      208.1    88.3    56.2    61.5       43.7    39.9    53.0         94.8
Contract Work     106.2      87.1       110.0    119.7       117.1    107.1       124.2   100.8    74.0    76.0    103.0    71.5   93.3          182.1
Other       88.3      39.3        92.6     44.6        97.3     24.3       102.2    57.1    71.1    83.6       76.5    48.9   106.6       132.8
Total Working Cost  1,383.2   1,205.8     1,429.5   1,323.3    1,496.2  1,254.6     1,561.8  1,185.7  1,030.5   917.5    906.7   787.9   888.3     1,405.8  s
Depreciation    561.1      236.0      590.5    268.1       619.0    184.6       635.5   129.6   101.9   207.2    191.3   254.2  763.1          254.2
Total Operating Cost  1,944.3   1,441.8    2,020.0   1,591.4    2,115.2  1,439.2     2,197.3  1,315.3  1,132.4  1,124.7   1,097.9  1,042.1  1,651.4  1,660.0
Working Income      364.3      25.2      410.0      15.9      439.9   -100.7       477.6   -51.8  -158.0    -8.3       15.1    84.0   -13.4      -244.1
Operating Income    -196.9    -210.7     -180.4   -252.1      -179.1   -285.3      -157.9  -181.4  -259.8  -215.5   -176.2  -170.2  -776.5        -498.4
Net non-Op. Income      9.6       29.6       10.4      18.0       10,5     40.8        10.6    25.5    46.5    28.6        9.5     3.3     9.4        25.8
Financial Expenses     11.9       7.6       22.4      14.6       37.7      16.7       53.4      1.7    10.5       5       10.8    4.8    7.6          57.5
TOTALEXPENSES              1,946.6   1,419.8     2,032.0   1,588.0    2,142.4  1,415.1     2,240.1  1,291.5  1,096.4  1,101.1   1,099.2  1,043.6  1,649.6  1,691.7
ANNUALLOSS                  -199.2    -188.7     -192.4   -248.7      -206.3   -261.2      -200.7  -157.6  -223.9  -191.9   -177.5  -171.7  -774.7        -530.1
Working Ratio
With Normalization  79.15%    97.95%      77.71%    98.81%     77.28%  108.73%     76.58% 104.57%  118.11%  100.91%    98.37%  90.36% 101.53%     121.01%
Without Normalization  92.72%   120.14%     89.87%   119.93%     88.41%   117.68%     86.77% 123.82%  127.72%  113.53%    99.75%  93.21% 102.61%    123.10%
Operating Ratio
With Normalization    111.26%   117.12%  109.81%   118.83%    109.25%  124.72%     107.74%  115.99%  129.78%  123.70%   119.11% 119.51% 188.75%   142.90%
Without Normalization    130.33%   143.65%  127.00%   144.23%   124.99%  134.99%     122.07% 137.36%  140.34%  139.17%   120.79% 123.28% 190.76%    145.35%
Normal as % of Op. Rev.    14.63%    18.47%      13.53%    17.61%     12.69%    7.60%      11.74%  15.55%    7.52%   11.11%    1.39%   3.05%   1.05%       1.69%
Freight (TKM)                 38.2      38.8       40.5      37.3       42.9      37.4       45.5    37.6    34.1    36.2       37.1    39.8   39.1         42.1



25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Document    Section                           Description of Covenant                      Compliance
LA             3.01(c)    RFFSA to maintain a Project Revolving Fund Account with an             C
initial deposit of US$2.0 million
LA             3.01(c)    An additional deposit of US$2.0 million equivalent by end of           C
(iii) (B)    Mar-86
LA             4.01(a)    Appropriate organization and staff satisfactory to the Bank for        C
project implementation
LA             4.01(b)    Reporting requirements                                                CD
LA             4.01(c)    RFFSA's operational performance targets                                CP
LA              5.01      Auditing arrangements                                                  C
LA              5.02      RFFSA not to make payments or transfer revenues to CBTU                C
unless CBTU's separation from RFFSA is completed
LA              5.03      Maintain expense to revenue ratio of not more than 76% in 1989         CP
and thereafter
LA            Sch. 1&6   Disbursement procedures                                                 C
LA              Sch. 4    Procurement procedures and guidelines                                  C
LA            Sch. 5(1)   Closure of not less than 1500 km of not commercially viable lines;     C
(a)     and reduce passenger service by I million train-kilometers
LA            Sch. 5(1)   Carry out an operations-rationalization program for the NE region     CD
(a)(ii)   in accordance with TOR and timetable satisfactory to the Bank
LA           Sch. 5(1)(a)  Carry out a station consolidation and closure program in the          C
(iii)    Parana and Goais-Minas Gerais corridors satisfactory to the Bank
LA             Sch. 5;    The Borrower shall put into effect a revised cost-based tariff      CP, CD
Para. 2    structure not later than January 1988
LA             Sch. 5;    Prepare an operation management master plan, present it to the        CP
Para. 3(a)(i)  Bank for comments by the end of 1985



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
:Documen t    Section                          Description of Covenant                        Compliance:
LA              Sch. 5;    The Borrower shall carry out the locomotive, rolling stock and      CP, reduced
Para. 3(b)  track maintenance action programs in accordance with TOR and      plan implemented
timetable satisfactory to the Bank
LA              Sch. 5:    The Borrower shall regularly update its pluriannual investment           C
Para. 4(b)(i)  plans through systenatic investment evaluations and review of
priorities criteria satisfactory to the Bank
LA              Sch. 5;    Refrain from undertaking or committing itself to undertaking any         C
Para. 4(b)(ii) investment unless it is justified pursuant to methods and criteria
set forth in (i) above
LA              Sch. 5;    The Borrower shall camy out management training program in the           C
Para. 4(c)  fields of corporate planning, project monitoring and evaluation,
operations and maintenance management, marketing and cost
control and information and human resources management
PA             GA 2.02    Guarantor to provide funds or cause the Borrower to be provided    CP, to the extent
with such if it is believed that funds made available to the Borrower  macro-economic
are inadequate for the Borrower to carry out the project              situation
permitted
PA            3.0 1(a)(c)   Coordinated Ministry of Transport action to provide funds, facilities,  CP, to the
services, etc.                                                     extent macro-
economic
situation
permitted
LA: Loan Agreement
PA: Project Agreement
GA: Guaranitee Agreement
C: Complied
CD: Complied after delay
CP: Complied with partially
NC: Not complied witlh
Source: World Bank MIS



Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in staffweeks)
Stage/FY       77   78   79   80   8t   82   83   84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96  Total
Preparation         1.7 25.1 43.1 50.3  16.9 38.7  7.5 41.3  51.5                                                                 276.1
Appraisal                                                       64.8                                                               64.8
Negotiation                                                     10.0                                                               10.0
Supervision                                                      6.1 25.8 31.9 33.5 25.1  16.6 13.5  10.7 11.2  6.7  9.7          190.8
Project                                                                                                                     6.0    6.0
Completion                                                                                                                         0.0
-------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__--------
TOTAL             1.7 25.1 43.1 50.3  16.9 38.7  7.5 41.3 132.4 25.8 31.9 33.5 25.1  16.6 13.5 10.7 11.2  6.7  9.7  6.0  547.7
Source: World Bank COS (Cost Accounting System)



28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating bi
Stage offProject                No. of  Days in.    Specialization    :mplem.    Devt.        Types of
Cycle.            Date      Staff    Field      Represented a/     Status    Impact   Problems c/
I. Through Appraisal
Reconnaissance           10-Nov-77  N/A       N/A    E
Preappraisal             29-May-78    4        14    C, E, FNA, RE                             F
Preappraisal             25-Aug-78    3        11    E, FNA, RE                                F
Preparation              29-Nov-78    3        17    E, FNA, RE                                M
Preparation               17-Feb-78    2        7    FNA, RE                                   M
Preparation               8-May-79    2        10    FNA, RE
Preparation               22-Jun-79    1       7    FNA                                        F
Preparation               22-Oct-79    3       10    E, FNA, RE                                F
Preparation               10-Dec-79    3       5    E, FNA, RE                                 F
Preparation               17-Apr-80    3       9    E, FNA, RE                                 F
Preparation              19-May-81    3        7    E, FNA, RE                                 F
Preparation               21-Jan-82    3       13    E, FNA, RE
Preparation                1-Apr-82    1        7    E
Preparation                1-Jun-82    4       14    E, FNA, LO, RE                            M, T
Preparation               7-May-84    3        21    E, FNA, RE
Picparation               10-Sep-84    6       21    C, E, FNA, RE                             T
Appraisal                 19-Nov-84    7       21    C, E, FNA, RE
II. Supervision            3-Jun-85    6       23    C, E, FNA, RE
28-Aug-85    3        5    E, FNA, RE
26-May-86    2        7    FNA, RE
11-Aug-86    1       3    RE                                         M
11-May-87    1       11    RE                                        M
12-Oct-87   3        5    C, E, RE                                  M
4-Apr-88    3       7    E, FNA, RE                                 M, P
4-Jul-88    1      12    RE                                  2     F, M, P
27-Feb-89    2       8    E, RE                     2          2     F
29-Aug-89    1       16    RE                       2          2     F
12-Feb-90    1       7    RE                        2         2      F, M
14-Jan-91    6      10    C, E, FNA, RE             2         2
22-Apr-91    3       25    E, FNA, RE               3          2     F, M
9-Sep-91    2       5    RE, TP                    2          2     M
13-Apr-92    1       5    RE, TP                    2          2     F, M, P
25-Nov-92    2        3    RE, TP, TS               2          2
19-May-93    2        3    RE, TP                    2         2     F
26-Oct-93    3       2    FRA, RE, TP               2         2
17-Feb-94    2       2    RE, TP                    S         S
23-Jan-95    2       5    FNA, RE                   S         U
Completion



29
Total Bank Resources:                    Staff    Days
Preappraisal                              7        25
Preparation                              37       148
Appraisal                                 7        21
Supervision                              47       164
Total                                   98       358
a/ C- Consultant; E-Economist, FNA-Financial Analyst, LO-Loan Officer, RE-Railway Engineer; TP-Transport
Planner; TS-Transport Specialist
b/ Performance ratings between July 1988 and October 1993 were based on overall performance (first column) and
development objectives (second column). Form 590 was revised in 1994 to reflect the implementation status
and developmental impact.
c/ F-Financial; M-Managerial; P-Procurement; T-Technical
Source: Project Files



30                            Appendix A
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Evaluation Summary
Federal Railways (RFFSA) Export Corridors Project
Agreement 2563-BR
Brazil
Introduction
The World Bank's association with RFFSA dates back to 1971 when the first Bank loan
(Loan 786-BR, for US$46 million) was approved to finance the railways component of an iron
ore mining project being carried out by Minerac6es Brasileiras Reunidas (MBR) to transport
ore from Minas Gerais to the port of Sepetiba. That project, which also lent support to the
railway with a view to promoting profit-oriented activities and enhancing management, was
completed in December 1977. The Bank approved a second loan for RFFSA in January 1975
(Loan 1074-BR, for US$175 million) to find the first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979
investment plan (including a technical assistance program). The loan's main objectives were to
equip RFFSA to handle fiture demand, especially for transporting iron ore and steel products
in the Central region and farm produce from the South; the program included as well a
component to upgrade suburban transportation facilities in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
Although many of the project's components were ultimately reformulated or postponed, its
objectives were felt to have been attained overall and the project was completed in December
1981.
Project Objectives
In 1985, the Federal Government - in line with its transportation policy and acting
through RFFSA -signed Loan 2563-BR for US$200 million with the IBRD. The loan was
to provide funding for rehabilitation works and services along the Goias-Minas Gerais and
Parana export corridors, including implementation of a corporate action program.
The main objectives of the project were to promote the financial rehabilitation and improve
the commercial performance of the federal railway and to enhance transport efficiency in the
Goias-Minas Gerais and Parand export corridors. Achieving these objectives would make it
possible to increase exports of grains and grain products from the states of Parana and Mato
Grosso do Sul and from the cerrados region of Goias and Minas Gerais, as well as the export
of various industrial products.



31
Among the key factors that contributed to attaining the project's objectives, special mention
should be made of the two agreements that RFFSA signed with EMBRATEL and TELEMIG,
which provided counterpart funding for the project. More recently, the Bank decided to
increase its participation in the project (mainly in the works, supervision, and advisory services
components); as a result considerable progress was made with project activities and it was
possible to meet the schedule outlined in the aide-memoire of February 1994.
The achievement of the export corridors project can be classified as substantial: the
permanent way was rehabilitated thanks to the infrastructure and superstructure works that
were carried out; telecommunications and signaling systems with centralized traffic control
were implemented that will make it possible to expand freight transport activities safely and
reliably; and managerial and operations training was provided that will modernize management
practices and promote a more aggressive policy in the commercial sphere.
Implementation Experience and Results
When Agreement 2563-BR was signed, the Federal Government was not considering the
possibility of privatizing or leasing RFFSA. The project was to be completed as planned, at
which time the regional offices would assume responsibility for maintaining the project services
and works and implementing the corporate action programs, in support and furtherance of the
agreement's objectives. RFFSA worked diligently to honor the commitments it had assumed
under the agreement, making the necessary arrangements with the ministries and government
agencies to keep the agreement in force; it also assigned priority - despite its tight financial
situation - to honoring the commitments assumed, in order to fulfill the contracts as signed.
Despite the changes of government that have occurred throughout project execution and the
new national policy of privatization that was adopted in 1992, RFFSA will probably be able to
keep the project within the parameters outlined in the agreement, working either with its own
team or through joint ventures.
The following table presents a summary of the final costs of the project, broken down
by source and by category (in millions of US$):
Source         Appraisal        Adjusted            Actual
Estimate                            as of December 1994
IBRD           200.0            200.0               194.4
RFFSA          126.0            132.5               120.4
BNDES           54.0             26.2               26.2
Treasury        42.0             35.4               32.4
TOTAL         422.0            394.1               373.4



32
Category                        Appraisal           Final
Estimate           Cost
Civil Works                     197.9               138.4
Goods                           211.8               203.1
Software                         1.2                 1.8
Supervision and
technical assistance            11.1               30.1
TOTAL                          422.0               373.4
Distribution of the IBRD contribution, by category:
Category                        Appraisal           Final
Estimate           Cost
Civil Works                      49.0               44.7
Goods                           125.0               134.7
Software                         1.0                 1.8
Supervision and
technical assistance            20.0               13.2
Unallocated                      20.0                5.6
TOTAL                          200.0               200.0
Project implementation, scheduled initially in the Appraisal Report for the period
1985 to 1989, began in 1986 with closing scheduled for December 1991. There were three
extensions (to 1992, 1993, and 1994), all resulting from delays in project execution that
stemmed mainly from political and economic factors that interfered with achievement of the
final objectives and made it necessary to extend the implementation period. The following
paragraphs discuss the main factors affecting project execution:
(i)    The various anti-inflation policies adopted by the Federal Government (the Cruzado
Plan in 1986, the Collor Plan in 1990, and the Real Plan in 1994) led to revisions - and in
some cases temporary suspensions - of contracts in order to renegotiate contract amounts, as
stipulated by the plans and applicable federal law.
(ii)   As economic conditions worsened in Brazil, the Federal Govemment became unable
to honor all the commitments assumed under Loan Agreement 2563-BR, specifically the
normalization payments (Normalizacao ContAbil) that had been set at previously determined
levels. As a result, RFFSA ended up running a constant deficit which prevented it from using
its corporate equity as counterpart funding for the World Bank loan.



33
(iii)    The counterpart funds from the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e
Social, which were initially estimated in the Appraisal Report at US$54 million, were frozen by
government decree at US$26.2 million, as a result of the new guidelines issued for the use of
these funds.
(iv)    Cumbersome administrative procedures governing the release of funds, mainly those
earmarked for RFFSA, meant that by the time these funds finally did become available, they
had been cut substantially by the Federal Government.
Bank Perforrnance
The World Bank's long-standing relationship with RFFSA has yielded positive results
for the development of rail transportation policy. With regard to this loan contract in
particular, the outcome has been productive in that RFFSA has been able to provide better
freight transportation conditions along the country's two most important export corridors, thus
allowing it to obtain an alternative source of income that will help it to offset its tight financial
situation.
Generally speaking, our assessment finds the Bank's performance throughout project
execution very satisfactory. The Bank consistently showed itself receptive to requests from
RFFSA, mainly concerning changes or adjustments to the project's scope made necessary in
order to attain the goals set in the Appraisal Report. The Bank also took all the necessary
steps with the respective government agencies in order to ensure the project's continuity.
Borrower Performance
The disbursement of counterpart funds under the project was plagued by a series of
problems that ultimately hampered attainment of the goals set in the Appraisal Report. The
Federal Government, for instance, encountered problems in complying with the provisions of
Decree-Law 2178 on normalization payments, a situation that was compounded by the
withdrawal of BNDES as a provider of counterpart funding. As a result, RFFSA was not able
to make its payments and was subsequently targeted to be privatized under the National
Development Plan. The tariff schedule was also out of date, owing to the company's lack of
autonomy to revise its transportation charges.
Revenue that could have entered as profits under the Export Corridors Project had to
be rechanneled to cover other commitments. RFFSA found itself obliged to seek alternative
sources of funding in order to meet its commitments under the agreement; here, it took the
novel approach of entering into joint ventures with other state-run enterprises (TELEMIG and
EMBRATEL), which provided the financial guarantees it needed to procure fiber optic cable
and a large share of the funds needed to lay the cable, thereby enabling the firm to expand the
service area of the telecommunications system.



34
Owing to various financial difficulties, the project had to be extended several times.
The closing date, which was to be 1990, had to be postponed until 1994. Even so, 95% of the
scheduled total was completed.
Against this backdrop, we feel that RFFSA's performance in project execution was
satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
The Paranh and GoiAs-Minas Gerais Export Corridors Project and the corporate
action programns were of paramount importance to RFFSA for the following reasons:
They made transportation more efficient in these corridors.
-       rlThey made it possible to achieve the financial rehabilitation of the railway and
upgrade commercial performance in the corridors.
The Export Corridors Project provided RFFSA with the following benefits:
'The infrastructure and superstructure of the permanent way was rehabilitated.
New yards were built or rehabilitated.
-       A modem fiber-optics telecommunications system and a signaling system with
centralized traffic control were installed.
-      The fully computerized Operations Management System (SIGO) was expanded to
cover the entire RFFSA.
-       Various corporate action plans were implemented that changed RFFSA's
management profile and updated its commercial policy.
Overall, the results obtained from implementation of the Export Corridors Project can
be regarded as satisfactory, since the investments produced an increase in freight transport for
the Regional Superintendencies of Curitiba and Belo Horizonte within a context of financial
self-sufficiency.



35
Sunmmary of Findings, Future Operations, and Main Lessons Learned
A feasibility study for a project of this scope needs to set targets that are as realistic as
possible for the sector in question, that is to say, costs should not be underestimated and goals
should not be overly optimistic. Time frames for the completion of services and procurement
activities should also be kept realistic, since it was found in this project that the lack of
counterpart funding had a serious impact on observance of the established schedules.
The World Bank's participation enabled contracted services to be performed and
work to be completed on some long-standing projects of benefit to RFFSA that - owing to a
lack of funding and investments - had been postponed repeatedly.
The project succeeded in rehabilitating the permanent way of the export corridors,
providing good traffic conditions and promoting financial self-sufficiency and safe freight
transport thanks to the installation of the telecommunications and signaling systems. The
future operation and maintenance of the project, which now lies with the Regional
Superintendencies (SR-2 and SR-5), must be adjusted to the new phase on which RFFSA is
embarking, i.e., privatization (leasing of sections).
For future projects, the following lessons can be drawn:
Projects should be presented in as great a level of detail as possible, in order to keep
cost overruns to a minimum. There should be greater awareness and involvement of the
sectors that are being targeted by the investments, and the financial and technical management
of projects of this type should be entirely independent of the companys permanent structure.






MAP SECTION






5U                                     5LA50                   4U-
LUIS
S k     - AREA OF MAP                                                                           Poubo        a>,,,,
FORTALEZA
SOUTHCu, 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEN o,re, uo7, r Hco l o
AM[ RICA                                                                                  TR
BRAZIL
RAILROADS                                                          co 0                     r C,0,
Regional Superintendencies                                                  A uo
Luu,.         JOAC)
.D )        SR-I Recife                                              s     ------ G-         .          PEnSOA
SR-2 Bel. Horizonle                                                                       RECIFE
SR-4 Sao Paulo                                        A,uo,o                  ,. 7    7REIF
l-8          SR-S Coribo                                  -                           ,         MACE,O
I_ .fu_I                                        SR-6 Port Al.g. r                                                                     ACE6
tcoo/f  (t)-   SR-7 Solvador                             fo         do 0ord,      Cu
-           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fof GoouIse   \                                                 ARACA,U
- - --___-Tr.ffc Susp-nded
______ fFEPASA                                               p8uio
.,. I I I I I ~~~EFVM 50F  
a ltoo                                      -   - - International Boundaries                           Ii'F   Co   SAOA O 
(2) {// ~SALYADOR
COFA-O
E      BRASILIA
GOFANIA
- t P,, dD R.D(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......d ir Mn  Coo
o ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fe Un R,  PneRaldo                                  /\          M,aI
Loonbo~~~~~~~~~~>Lodl                                           \ /~            G
C-.                FS           Conb ' '                Fapoo        o
2  )     j                 ~~~~~Poo,no    rorbo          ,b>L      Funo7tPofl           r      b    t io
tp  -L.r i                                    CuFua                                                                             20'
P A R A G U A Y  ?   clonolle  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Pa                    r.,RO
PARAGUAY                                            anA               M05              AO
/                                    d !   Eg8rrco2ropfod
P,,na O,0a,u  doSo  Cuab ~ ~       ~        ~            10    2O   00    OO50
R,cono.G-d.           -     o-r
I    r           PoItOUmoos>~~~~~~gmelfo ~ SAO FRANCISCO                                            
/      u Ro,. / Fo ,                  CFFORFANAPOLFS 
U   vgr44 %            All R U   U A
0.               doSoFr,2p   2ioC=sios doIS                                                               0
-. 0lomm    \    ob5,lc        PROA RO                                                                 100   200  300  dUO   500
)                                                                                                                   RIFAs   o11  1OMETERS
m    \               )~~~~ORopaO   Ra Orande                                                                                                                  O
U R U GU AY                                                                                                                                                     o
_   {                                      5~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'                                               40 0'c









I M AG I NG
Report No:      15110
Type: ICR



