---:-.:  .  ;   -  .          Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-~~~~~~~ -<2z3-6/4
Report No. 5505-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
May 7, 1985
Projects Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Official Rate
US$1.0 - Cr$ 4,850 (April 30, 1985)
The March 1985 average exchange rate (US$1.0 - Cr$ 4,162) was used throughout
the report unless otherwise indicated
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measurements
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             - 0.62 mile (ml)
1 kilogram (kg)               - 2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)         - 2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                   - 0.26 US gallon (gal)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGEF           Armazens Gerais Ferroviarios S.A.
Railway's General Warehousing Company
BNDES          Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU           Companhia BrasileLra de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
CFP            Comissao de Financiamento da Producao
Agricultural Production Financing Commission
CIP            Conselho Interministerial dos Precos
Interministerial Committee for Price Control
CrRIN          Comissao do Trigo Nacional
National Wheat Commission
CVRD           Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Rio Doce Valley Company
DER            Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Estatal)
State Roads Department
DNER           Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
EBTU           Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EFVM           Estrada de Ferro Vitoria-Minas
Vitoria-Minas Railway Company
FEPASA         Ferrovia Paulista, S.A.
Sao Paulo Railway
GEIPOT         Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
INPC           Indice Nacional de Pregos ao Consumidor
National Consumer Price Index
IRK            Internal Rate of Return
MBR            Mineragoes Brasiieiras Reunidas
United Brazilian Mining Company
MIS            Management Information System
MT             Xinisterio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
OiS            Operations Information System
PORTOBRAS      Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA          Rede Ferroviar.a Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SAP            Bank Special Action Program
SEPLAN         Secretaria de Planejamento
Federal Planning Secretariat
SUNAMAK        Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Marine



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
STAF  APPRAISAL rKPER
BRAZIL
FEDUAL R&UMAY -   WXPour co1OP - PRO]!
TABLJE aFt?  !E!
PROJECT SUMMARY *.......              .......********* ...........          (i)
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                                                   1
A_  Sectoral Context             ...       ..              ....,       1
B.  Sector Management ...................... .... ..** ..**            2
C.  The Federal Railway ...................*..CS***...*S               3
D.  Bank Experience in the Sector            ..........................  4
II.   THE FEDERAL BAILWAY            ........................................  5
A. RFFSA's Organization and Finances             ......................  5
B.  The Economic Role of the Railway            .......................  7
C.  The Rationalization of Operations and Network         ..........   9
D.  Costs and Tariffs, Marketing and Cost Control         ..........  10
E.  Operations and Maintenance .       ....      ......b e******      12
(i) Operating Performance *...*..* ..........  ...........       12
(ii) Operations Management *       .............................  13
(iii) Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Workshops ..........         14
(iv) Track Maintenance  ..**....**........              ...**     15
F.  Investment ........********************          ........         16
G.  Planning and Management, Training .......................         17
SIlI   THE PROJECT ....................................                     18
A.  Project Objectives and Rationale            .......................  18
B.  Project Description            ...................................  19
(i) The Policy and Institutional Development Action Plan         19
(ii) The Export Corridor Projects .......................         22
C.  Project Implementation ..o        ............................    23
D.  Project Cost and Financing           .............................  23
E.  Procuremnent ...................................                  24
F.  Disbursements    ........ ......****...*..  *..............       25
G. Accounts and Audits * ............. ...          .............     26
This report is based on the findings of preparatory and appraisal
missions which visited Brazil in 1984 comprising Messrs. J. Cellier
(Transport Economist), J. Baigorria (Railway Engineer), and T. Markus
(Financial Analyst). The missions were assisted by Messrs. N. Tcheyan (Loan
Officer), K. Viswanathan (Railway Engineer), S. Spencer (Railway Management
Consultant), W. Thompson (Operations Systems Consultant), IL Carruthers
(Costing and Tariff Consultant), M. Prehn (Railway Operations Consultant),
and D. Burns (Traction and Rolling Stock Consultant). The report has been
edited by Ms. Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a rtricd distnbution and may be used by repieats only in the performance of
their ofic  duties Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without Wodd Bank autborizatios.



- li -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
IV.   RFFSA's FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS *.     ...................09............  26
V.    ECONOKIC EVALUATION                                               29
A.  General                                                       29
B.  Traffic .........se.                                          30
C.  Benefits         .............................................  31
D.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis .....     .....................  32
VI.   AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........ ................   33
TABLES
1.1   Federal Investments in the Transport Sector, 1976-1984 ......   35
1.2   Petroleum Automotive Fuels: Price Structure and Adjustment ..   36
2.1   RFFSA's Past and Projected Traffic, 1970-1990    ...............  37
2.2   Summary of RFFSA's Costs and Tariffs, and Truck Tariffs, 1984    38
2.3   RFFSA's Operating Statistics, 1979-1983.......................   39
2.4   RFFSA's Diesel Motive Power, 1984       ...........................    41
2.5   Estimates of Life Cycle Costs of Remanufactured vs. New
Locomotive        ............................................. ...    42
2.6  Summary of RFFSA's Diesel Locomotive Requirements, 1985-1989.    43
2.7   RFFSA's Rolling Stock, 1984                                       44
2.8   Su_mary of RFFSA's Freight Wagon Requirements, 1985-1989 ....    45
2.9   RFFSA's Investments, 1980-1984                                    46
2.10  RFFSA's Investment Plan, 1985-1989 ......47
2.11  RFFSA's Investment Financing Plan, 1985-1989                      48
3.1  RFFSA's Operational and Financial Targets, 1985-1989 *@SeS**S    49
3.2   Project Cost Summary ........................................    50
3.3   Policy and Institutional Development - Cost Table .... .......   51
3.4   Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor - Cost Table         ....................   52
3.5   Parana Corridor - Cost Table          ...............................  53
3.6   Project Financing Plan *.......................................   54
3.7   Policy and Institutional Development - Financing Table   ......   55
3.8   Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor - Financing Table ........6.......6    56
3.9   Parana Corridor - Financing Table          ...........................   57
3.10  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements         .........................   58
4.1   RFFSA's Income Statements, 1979-1989 ......59
4.2   RFFSA's Average Working Costs per Traffic Units, 1979-1989        60
4.3   RFFSA's Projected Fund Flow Statements, 1985-1989 ...........    61
4.4   RFFSA's Balance Sheets, 1979-1983 ..........62
4.5   RFFSA's Projected Balance Sheets, 1984-i989 .................    63
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector                            64
2.    RFFSA's Freight Traffic Forecasts                                 69
3.    Design Features of the Two Corridor Projects                      75
4.    Financial Forecast Assumptions                                    84
5.    Economic Evaluation of the Two Corridor Projects CSS*SSCOSS@@    86
6.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File         92



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
CHARTS
26226  Organization of the Ministry of Transport ...... ............    94
27150  Organization of the Federal Railway (RFFSA) ...............   95
27093  Project Implementation Schedule         ...........................   96
MAPS
IRRD 18760 - BRAZIL - Railroads
IBRD 18761 - BRAZIL - Goias-Manas Gerais Corridor
IBRD 18762 - BRA2IL - Parana Corridor



BRAZIL
FEEAL RAUAMh- EXPORT CORRIDOI- PROJECT
Borrower:      Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (RFFSA)
Guarantor:     Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:        US$200 million
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Project        The project would provide assistance to RFFSA in the implementation
Description: of (i) a set of action plans and programs aimed at its financial
rehabilitation and at improving its commercial performance, and
(ii) two rehabilitation and improvement projects designed to
increase transport efficiency in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais
export corridors. The policy and institutional development
component includes action plans for rationalizing the railway's
operations and network; upgrading tariffs, marketing and cost
control; improving operations and maintenance efficiency;
strengthening planning and management systems; and improving
transport coordination in the Southeast corridors. The two
corridor projects essentially include the rehabilitation and
improvement of the most critical sections of main lines, of yards,
of workshops and of intermodal facilities.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would be realized by RFFSA in
the form of cost savings on train and yard operations and on track
maintenance, and, because of the competition with the trucking
industry, to a large extent they would have to be passed over to
the users. Substantial benefits would accrue, in particular, to
agriculture and export producers in the areas of influence of the
two corridors. The action plan component would support the
Government and RFFSA's management efforts to turn the federal
railway into a financially and commercially viable freight carrier.
Risks:         Project benefits could be affected by lower-than-expected
economic performance, particularly export performance in the
regions served by the two corridors, and by unexpected delays
in the project's implementation. The project, however, would
still have an attractive rate of return. An appropriate
project monitoring system would be established to minimize the
risks.



(ii)
Estimated Costs:  1/                               - -US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
Railway Policy and Institutional
Development Component                           3.4      2.6       6.0
Goias-Minas Gerais Corridor Ccaponent            64.8     77.4    142.2
Parana Corridor Component                        81.8     86.0    167.8
Total Base Cost                                    150.0    166.0    316.0
Physical Contingencies                           12.3     12.1      24.4
Price Contingencies                              39.9     41.7      81.6
Total Project Cost                                 202.2    219.8    422.0
Total Financing Required                           202.2    219.8    422.0
Financing Plan                                     -    -US$ Million---
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                             22.1    177.9    200.0
BNDES                                            34.1     20.0      54.1
Supplier Credit                                   -        7.6       7.6
RFFSA                                           105.0     13.0    118.0
Government                                       41.0      1.3      42.3
Total                                           202.2    219.8    422.0
Estimated Disbursements:                    --  US$ Million-
Bank FY                              86    87   88   89   90   91   92
Annual:                              25 2/ 25   50   60   30    8    2
Cumulative:                          25    50  100  160  190  198  200
Rate of Return: About 21%, based on an evaluation of the two Corridor
components which represent 98% of total project cost.
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$58.2 million.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account.



I. Us TRANSPORT SBCToI
A. Sectoral Contezt
1.01     Brazil's rapid economic growth throughout the 1960s and the 1970s, in-
cluding the development of widely spread agricultural and mineral resources and
the geographically concentrated industrial base, led to unprecedented increases in
transport needs. The Federal Government's main objective in the transport sector
has been to expand the capacity of the system in line with demand growth. Massive
public sector investments have been made in the transport infrastructure, account-
ing for almost 20% of total public investment in the mid-1970s. Until 1973-1974,
the largest share of the federal investments in transport was directed to the con-
struction and paving of a network of primary highways. The sudden increase in
petroleum prices led the Federal Government to put more emphasis upon the develop-
ment of rail and water transport. Large railway investments were undertaken, in
conjunction with ambitious plans for the expansion of the steel industry, at a
time of favorable prospects in the iron ore and steel markets.  In addition to
coal and ore terminals, grain terminals were built as outlets to the main export
corridors in the South and the Southeast. Considerable efforts were made to
develop a national merchant marine fleet for both ocean and coastal shipping, and
a domestic ship-building industry. Programs were started to increase the capacity
of the suburban commuter systems in the main cities.
1.02      Transport policy in the first half of the 1980s has been shaped by the
Government's austerity program. Public investments in the sector have been scaled
down drastically; 'in 1984, federal investments in transport were about half their
1976 level ln real terms (Table 1.1). The completion of the "Ferrovia do Ago"
railway line has been postponed; the only significant railway investment has been
for the integrated Carajas iron ore project (Loan 2196-BR) of the large mining
group Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD). Highway construction has been limited to
the recently completed Northwest Highway (Loan 2062-BR). Port investments were
geared essentially to the completion of the Sepetiba ore terminal and of two
integrated industrial projects, the Tubarao steel mill and the Albras-Alunorte
aluminium projects. The programs for improving commuter services in the main
cities were continued, but at a slower pace. Although the emphasis gradually
shifted from new construction to maintenance and to the rehabilitation of essen-
tial facilities, in particular those necessary to the country's exports and to
agricultural development, the lack of resources led to the postponement of needed
maintenance and rehabilitation works sectorwide.
1.03     Transport output has been growing at rates higher than GDP during the
past two decades: total freight traffic increased at an average 8.5% p.a. and
inter-city passenger traffic at about 13% p.a., whereas GDP grew at an average
7.5% p.a. In 1981-1983, however, GDP declined and so did freight traffic, whereas
passenger traffic continued to grow, but at a mcch slower pace. In 1984, the
incipient economic recovery, according to preliminary estimates, brought freight
traffic back to its highest level of 1980, an increase of more than 10% over its
1983 level. Road transport is the dominant mode; it is estimated to carry about
60% of total freight and 97% of inter-city passengers. The railways have suc-
ceeded in increasing their share in the freight traffic from about 17% of total



ton-km in the early 1960s to about 23X in the early 1980s, increasingly special-
izing in fewer commodities and longer hauls. Coastal shipping, virtually stagnant
for many years until 1973, then developed at an annual rate of about BZ, special-
izing in liquid- and dry-bulk cargoes, and Brazilian flag participation in foreign
trade increased markedly. Inland water transport, although not very significant
countrywide, is important in the Amazon basin and has developed recently in the
Rio Grande corridor.
B.   Sector Management
1.04      Public sector investments in the 1960s and 1970s were accompanied by the
development of large subsectoral autonomous agencies and public enterprises under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport (MT) (Chart 26226). Most regional
railways were regrouped into a federal railway company (RFFSA), and into the State
of Sao Paulo railway (FEPASA), with the exception of the Vitoria-Minas Gerais
railway (EFVM) owned by CVRD. The National Highway Department (DNER) expanded
rapidly with the construction of the federal highway network, and state highway
agencies (DERs) in the more developed states also grew quickly. The port adminis-
tration was reorganized with the creation of PORTOBRAS, a federally-owned holding
company which controls individual port companies and agencies. The National Mer-
chant Marine Superintendency (SUNAMAM), responsible for administering the shipping
subsector, was also charged with monitoring large Government-supported ship-
building programs. The Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation (EBTU) was created
to manage federal investments for urban transport.
1.05      Since these entities, particularly for their investments, were funded
mostly with tax revenues earmarked for specific purposes, more attention tended to
be paid to the achievement of physical targets than to sound economic and finan-
cial planning.   A transport planning and coordination agency (GEIPOT) was estab-
lished under MT to formulate sector policies and to assist the agencies in pre-
paring subsectoral plans and pre-investment studies. GEIPOT grew rapidly as an
independent public enterprise, operating increasingly under specific-purpose con-
tracts with MT and its agencies, and its role progressively became that of an out-
side consultant/research institution. Neither MT nor its modal agencies, however,
developed sufficient in-house planning capabilities to direct GEIPOT's work toward
well defined planning objectives or to integrate GEIPOT's plans and recommenda-
tions into a continuous planning and coordination process. MT needs to concen-
trate more upon policy formulation and the coordination of the agencies' plans and
strategies than upon specific investment and operational decisions. The modal
agencies need to strengthen their in-house planning and management capabilities to
develop and monitor appropriate strategic plans. The Federal Highway Sector Pro-
ject (Loan 2446-BR, 1984) supports these objectives in the highway subsector; the
proposed project would help to strengthen RFFSA's planning and management, as well
as its management autonomy, and to support a transport coordination action program
focusing upon the Southeast corridors.
1.06      Financing policies in the sector have reflected Government efforts to
contain inflation through price control. The centrally controlled tariffs of the
revenue-earning entities have generally been adjusted in line with inflation;
still, revenues from many public transport services have remained well below
costs, and the Government has had to cover substantial (although reducing) opera-
ting deficits. Central control over investments has been gradually restored with
the dismantling of tax earmarking, but, at the same time, the Government's efforts
to reduce public deficits have led most sector entities to rely essentially upon



-3-
borrowing to finance their investments. The service requirements of these borrow-
ings have reached practically unmanageable levels for many entities, and the
Government has had to assume the debt obligations.  New pricing policies &re
needed to restore the financial situation of the public enterprises, including
their ability to generate the necessary savings to finance essential investments
in the sector.
1.07      Brazil's energy strategy in the transport sector has emphasized substi-
tution of domestically produced alcohol for gasoline as well as programs to
relieve urban congestion through traffic management and through improvement of
suburban rail systems. Although attempts to attenuate the impact of the 1979 oil
price increases and of the 1983 major devaluation of the cruzeiro upon domestic
prices of petroleum products resulted in temporary subsidies to consumers of
diesel oil, in particular, the Government has, since late 1983, been keeping con-
sumer prices of gasohol and diesel oil, net of local distribution costs and
retailers' margins, well above border prices (Table 1.2). This strategy has been
successful im reducing gasoline consumption, but the consumption of diesel oil has
continued to increase. The Government recently put more emphasis upon conserva-
tion of diesel oil, through continued increases In diesel prices and through
programs to promote efficiency in the road transport industr,y; these efforts are
supported by the Bank under the Federal Highway Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR).
The proposed project would also contribute to this objective, from a fuel-
efficiency point of view, through improving the intermodal allocation of cargoes
In the two corridors, and through strengthening intermodal coordination in the
Southeast.
1.08      Transport policy in the second half of the 1980s should, in line with
broader efforts to ach.eve the necessary structural adjustment and sustain the
incipient economic recovery, aim to improve the performance and finances of the
public entities in the sector, as well as to support other iaportant country
objectives related to export expansion, agricultural growth and energy conserva-
tion. In order to achieve more efficient resource use in the sector, further
efforts should be made to rationalize the operations, and to improve the pricing
and marketing policies, of the public enterprises through greater reliance upon
commercially oriented activities, and to strengthen their planning, management,
and operations. Emphasis should be put upon facilitating exports, particularly by
improving operational efficiency in the export corridors and in the port systems,
and by ensuring adequate transport in the agricultural regions. Public investment
should be focused upon the rehabilitation and maintenance of the essential facil-
ities, rather than new construction, and upon cost-effective projects which gener-
ate quick returns, especially foreign exchange earnings and/or savings. The
Bank's strategy for the transport sector supports these objectives; its implemen-
tation would be continued with the project as well as through sector dialogue with
the new Government.
C.   The Federal Railway
1.09      The federal railway company, KFFSA, was created in 1957 as a public
corporation under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport, combining 18
formerly independent railway companies. XFFSA operates freight and inter-city
passenger rail services on a network of about 23,000 km in length, which essen-
tially serves the more developed regions of Southeastern and Southern Brazil, as
well as part of the Northeast. RFFSA wads also responsible, until recently, for
operating rail commuter services in several major cities, but responsibility for



- 4 -
these services was transferred, during 1984, to the newly created Brazilian Urban
Train Company (CBTU) following an early 1984 Government decision to separate the
socially oriented commuter operation from the rest of RFFSA (para. 2.02).
1.10      RFFSA's traffic has increased substantially over the past two decades,
particularly in the bulk commodities and longer hauls for which the railway has
comparative advantage over road transport. Freight traffic increased at an aver-
age 13.7% p.a. in ton-km between 1972 and 1980, then decreased by a total 10% in
1981-1983, essentially as a result of the reduced international demand for iron
ore; it rose 14X in 1984, reaching about 77 million tons and 34 billion ton-km.
Freight traffic is expected to continue growing in the future, although at a
slower pace than in the past. Prospects are good for RFFSA, in particular as a
result of the project, to improve its participation in the increasing demand for
transport of export and agricultural products. RFFSA's inter-city passenger
traffic has been decreasing since 1958, and it is the Government and RFFSA's
objective to reduce it further by eliminating the nonremunerative services.
1.11      While RFFSA'B financial performance has been improving steadily over the
past five years (the working deficits turned into a working surplus in 1983, and,
by 1984, the operating deficits reduced by about 73% from 1979), the railways
still have to depend upon Government subsidies to cover operating deficits, to
service debts and to undertake capital investments. Although the financial
improvements were somewhat exaggerated by deferring maintenance works and by the
insufficient indexing of asset values, significant progress has been made in
reducing the railways' work force and the nonremunerative inter-city passenger
services, and, to a lesser extent, in rationalizing freight services and closing
nonremunerative lines. However, because of Government control, RFFSA has not
been able to adjust its tariffs beyond inflation for appropriate cost-recovery or
to rationalize its freight services and network as fast as would have been
desirable. Also, investment decisions were often made at the Government level,
without KFFSA's priorities and capacity to invest being taken into full account;
and the heavy reliance upon borrowings, together with the rapid devaluation of the
cruzeiro, drove RFFSA's debt obligations to a practically unmanageable level.
1.12      Recently, the Government, through a Presidential Decree issued Decem-
ber 4, 1984, assumed as capital contribution the railways' debts incurred until
the end of 1984, and established a framework for the commercially oriented opera-
tion of RFFSA (para. 2.05). By virtue of these measures, which had been under
discussion between the Government and the Bank for almost three years, the re-
quirements for Bank participation in a new project with RFFSA have been complied
with, and a reasonable base for the successful implementation of the project has
been established. The Bank loan and project agreements would reinforce the
Decree; the various action plans included in the project have been designed to
support its full implementation.
D.   Bank Experience in the Sector
1.13      Before the mid-1970s, the Bank's primary concern in the transport sector
was to support Government efforts to expand the capacity of the system in line
with demand growth. From 1968 to 1975, the Bank made five loans totaling US$376
million for highways, three loans totaling US$296 million for railways, and one
loan of US$45 million to help finance the construction of a container terminal at
the Santos port. Through these projects, the Bank contributed particularly to the



-5-
development of Brazil's network of primary highways and to substantial improve-
ments in the operations of the railways. After 1975, Bank lending emphasized a
shift, in the highway subsector, from highway construction to maintenance and
rehabilitation, and to the improvement and construction of feeder roads to support
agricultural development. Since that shift, the Bank has made two loans (High-
ways VI, US$114 million, 1979, and Federal Highway Sector, US$210 million, 1984)
for highway rehabilitation ana maintenance; three loans totaling US$319 million
for feeder roads programs, managed by Brazil's National Economic and Social Devel-
opment Bank (BNDES), which provide financial and technical assistance to the
states and municipalities for constructing and improving feeder roads; and a loan
of US$240 million (Northwest Highway, 1981) to finance the highway and feeder
roads components of a comprehensive program for the development of the Northwest
Region. rhe Bank is also supporting feeder roads improvement and maintenance
through components of 13 ongoing agricultural or rural development projects. The
Bank has made a loan of US$159 million for the construction of a surburban rail
mass transit system (Second Urban Transport-Porto Alegre-Project, 1980), and it is
helping to finance the construction of an 890-km long railroad in Northern Brazil
as part of the Carajas Iron Ore Project. Bank experience with these projects is
summarized in Annex 1.
1.14      The Bank's association with RFFSA dates back to 1971 when the first Bank
loan (Loan 786-BR, for US$46 million) was made to help finance the rail component
of an iron ore mining project in Minas Gerais. The Bank approved a second loan to
RFFSA in 1975 (Loan 1074-BR for US$175 million) to finance a portion of its 1975-
1979 investment plan. A project performance audit report for the first project
concluded that it was completed successfully 1/. The second project completion
report was issued on June 22, 1983.  The program which the project supported had a
large number of individual projects in many areas of the railway, for a total
estimated cost of US$3.2 billion, and was too large for the railway to implement;
therefore, many components had to be postponed. Further, although achievements
were significant regarding the institutional development of RFFSA, the project's
objectives for broader policy reforms involving the Government were largely un-
attained. The design of the new project has been influenced significantly by this
experience. In particular, the investment component has been limited to two pro-
jects of high priority in RFFSA's plan, and the policy and institutional develop-
ment component has been designed to support the full implementation of the policy
decisions made through the December 4, 1984 Presidential Decree.
II. TMI FEDERAL RAILIAY
A.  RFFSA's Organization and Fnances
2.01      RFFSA as a federal enterprise (virtually all the shares are owned by the
Government) comes within the portfolio of the Ministry of Transport (MT). Gov-
ernment approval is required for the railway's operating and capital budgets, for
tariff adjustments and for matters of public interest such as line closures and
elimination of services. Daily operations are managed by 12 executive directors
appointed by the Minister of Transport. In addition, there is an Administrative
Council with representatives from Government agencies responsible for coordina-
ting RFFSA's activities with those of other transport agencies. Operationally,
RFFSA is organized into seven regions and a separate division, in addition to the
Head Office (Chart 27150). Presently, RUFSA has a staff of 67,000.
1/  Issued with Secretary's Memorandum M-83-59 of January 14, 1983.



-6-
2.02      IFFSA haa, until recently, been responsible for operating the suburban
rail mass transit services in Gio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo and smaller commuter
services in other major cities. The operation constantly resulted in considerable
losses, which were covered by Government subsidies. The Government has been un-
able to reduce these subsidies when, for a high percentage of the working popula-
tion of the large metropoles, the actual cost of commuting which, in addition to
long suburban railway trips, frequently includes several bus rides, gradually rose
at a time of reducing personal incomes. In early 1984, the Government decided to
free RFFSA from the politically flavored operational and financial problems that
characterize commuter services and established a separate company (Companhia
Bras ileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU) to take over RFFSA's responsibilities. While
CBTU is a subsidiary of RFFSA (and, to a smaller extent, of EITU and BNDES), for
all purposes it will operate independently from the railways, with separate opera-
ting and investment budgets. The Government is expected to exercise direct con-
trol over CBTU's operations and finances; it would also be able to identify more
clearly the subsidies involved in commuter operation. While CBTU's separation for
operational purposes is practically completed, there are outstanding matters be-
tween RFFSA and CBTU, such as formalizing the conditions for using each other's
facilities. RFFSA confirmed during loan negotiations that all arrangements
related to CBTU's separation will be completed by the end of 1985, and that it
will not make payments or revenue transfers to CBTU unless provided for under
these arrangements.
2.03     For over a decade, RFFSA depended upon Government subsidies to meet its
operating deficits, to service its debts, and to undertake capital investments.
Nevertheless, apart from the commuter services, the railway's financial perform-
ance has been improving steadily since 1979. Working deficits turned into sur-
pluses (US$52 million equivalent in 1984), and operating losses reduced by about
73Z, from US$384 million in 1979 to US$104 million in 1984. The working ratio,
taking into account normalization payments, improved from 1.51 in 1979 to .92 in
1984, and the operating ratio improved from 1.73 to 1.16. Without normalzation
payments, the working ratios were 1.58 and 1.08 respectively, and the operating
ratios were 1.81 and 1.36. Real cost savings were major factors: personnel costs
were reduced by 39Z between 1979 and 1984 because of the reduction in the number
of employees and in remuneration. The total working cost per ton-km decreased by
about 37% in the same period. The improvements, however, were somewhat exagger-
ated by deferred maintenance due to Government budgetary constraints, and by
insufficient depreciation due to lower-than-appropriate asset value indexing.
Regardless of the improvements, the railway's freight and inter-city passenger
operation still does not produce positive financial results, and, taking into
account depreciation and finance costs, RFFSA's 1984 loss was about US$480
million, out of which some US$383 million was interest. Operationwise, the major
sources of the losses were the operation in the Northeast region, nonremunerative
freight traffic in the other regions (in particular, such commodities as cement,
grains and fertilizers for which tariffs are below short-run marginal cost), and
the inter-city passenger services. These three businesses were estimated to rep-
resent about 25%, 50% and 25% respectively of the operating losses. Details of
past financial results are shown in Tables 4.1 to 4.4. The project would aim
toward improving RF1SA's financial performance through implementing appropriate
action plans; while the improvements would be gradual, RFYSA would be expected to
recover the full costs of its operations within a reasonable time (para. 2.19).



- 7 -
2.04      One of the main problems affecting RFFSA's finances was the fact that it
could not fully function as a commercial enterprise with autonomy regarding in-
vestment decisions, closures of nonremunerative lines and services, and tariff
setting.Investment decisions have been made at the Government level, often without
taking full account of RFFSA's priorities and/or fund-generating capacity. Also,
RFFSA's proposals with respect to tariff setting and the operation of nonremunera-
tive lines and services have been subject to Government decisions which may not
have been based upon commercial considerations. Because of the Government tariff
restrictions, which kept revenue increases lagging well behind the cost increases,
and because of the continually deteriorating value of the Cruzeiro over the last
decade, RFFSA's debt obligations reached a practically unmanageable level, and the
Government had to pay the railway's annual debts regularly. RFFSATs accumulated
debts (including interest) reached about US$3.9 billion by the end of 1984.
2.05      To alleviate the situation, the Government, through a Presidential
Decree issued on December 4, 1984, assumed as capital contribution the railway's
debts incurred until the end of 1984 and established a commercial framework for
the future operation of RFFSA. The Decree provides the railway with: (a) tariff
freedom from 1988 and a guarantee that, until then, at least the real values of
its cur:ent tariffs would be maintained; (b) a legal framework for normalization
payments; (c) full responsibility for formulating corporate investment plans based
on the company's priorities and consistent with its capacity to invest; and
(d) responsibility for closure of the nonremunerative services which are not sub-
ject to normalization payments. Although RFFSA, to a certain extent, would still
be an instrument of the Ministry of Transport to implement Government policies in
the subsector, the Decree provides the company with a solid basis for wide manage-
ment autonomy, together with the other necessary prerequisites for a commercially
viable ope:ation. The project, through its various action plans, has been de-
signed to support this aim.
D.  The Economic Role of the
2.06      RFFSA has, over the past 25 years, gradually specialized in the trans-
port of a few, essentially bulk, products over long hauls. With the development
of the paved highway network, RFFSA lost significant shares of the break-bulk,
short-haul and passenger markets to the competitive road transport industry.
Meanwhile, mining and industrial development in the Southeast and agricultural
growth in areas served by its network, as well as the more recent expansion of
exports, have given RFFSA a key role in the Brazilian economy.
2.07      RFFSA's freight traffic increased at annual average rates of 8% in tons
and 10.6% in ton-km during the 1970s. In 1981-1983, it decreased to about lOZ
below its 1980 level, but it rose sharply (by over 14% in ton-ki) in 1984, reach-
ing 77.2 million tons and 33.8 billion ton-km (Table 2,1). Exports of iron ore,
shipped essentially by the Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas (MBR) mining group from
Minas Gerais through RFFSA's central line, contributed significantly (about 40%)
to the traffic increases of the 1970s; and they accounted for almost all of the
subsequent reduction when the international market for iron ore weakened. RFFSA,
however, steadily developed several important markets over the last 15 years.
With the growth of heavy industry and, more recently, of steel exports, RFFSA
increased its traffic of industrial inputs, particularly coal, iron ore and lime-
stone, and its traffic of cement and steel products, the latter by an average 15%
p.a. The transport of grains and grain products, particularly soya and soya
pellets, also developed rapidly with the expansion of the agricultural frontier to



the west, which has been turning the railway into the most economic transport
alternative for many shipments to the processing and consumption centers and to
the ports on the Eastern seaboard. RFFSA also increased its traffic of petroleum
products by an average 16% p.a. in the past decade, particularly by shipping
increasing volumes on much longer hauls to the developing regions in the interior
of the country. As a result of these rapid increases, RFFSA's 13 major products
accounted for about 90% of total ton-km in 1984, as against 75Z in 1970. Also,
the average haul length rose from 250 km in 1958 to about 450 km in 1983-1984.
2.08      RFFSA's inter-city passenger traffic decreased from about five billion
passenger-km in the early 1960s to 1.7 billion in 1981. In 1982, the results of a
study carried out by RFFSA, showing that the railway could not compete with the
bus and air transport industries in most segments of the market, led RFFSA, with
Government concurrence, to withdraw or reduce the frequency of most of its nonre-
munerative passenger services. In 1984, traffic consequently dropped further down
to 1.2 billion passenger-km, and it is expected to continue decreasing, although
at a slower pace, as a result of RFFSA's commitment to further reductions of ser-
vices (para. 3.06).
2.09      RFFSA prepares short and medium-term forecasts of the transport demand
and rail traffic for the purposes of operations and investment planning. Market
surveys, in which existing and potential major customers are requested to prcsent
their production plans and transport needs, are carried out annually. The result-
ing estimates of the demand are the basis for the railway's transport plans,
traffic forecasts and marketing action plans. This forecasting, which has been
performed by RFFSA's own marketing staff for the last four years, has signifi-
cantly improved in quality, and it is now reasonably accurate for short- and
medium-term planning purposes. In order to complement these forecasts, RFFSA,
with assistance from GEIPOT and individual experts, carried out commodity studies
which focused on medium- and long-term forecasts of the product supply and demand,
and of the railway's traffic.  A summary of these forecasts is given in Annex 2.
2.10      RFFSA's freight traffic is expected to increase at about 6% p.a. during
the second half of the 1980s (Table 2.1). As a result of the recovery, in 1984,
of the demand for iron ore, exports of this product through RFFSA's system would
grow at an average 4.3Z p.a. and reach their 1980 level of 14 million tons by
1987.  The local steel industry, with new production units now coming into ser-
vice, would also generate an increased demand for iron ore as well as for lime-
stone; RFFSA's traffic of these two products would increase by 3.6% and 7.2% p.a.
respectively. The demand for coal, which is mined in the South, would also in-
crease substantially, in particular with the ongoing conversion to coal of a
number of cement plants in the states of Parana, Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais; it is
estimated that RFFSA's coal traffic will consequently increase by an average 7.0%
p.a. Although exports of steel products and pig iron are still increasing
rapidly, RFFSA's transport of these products overall is expected to develop at a
much slower pace than in the past. This is also true for cement, as a result of a
weakening demand, although bulk transport should enable RFFSA to increase its
market share. The transport of grains and grain products offers MFFSA good devel-
opment prospects. With the project, RFFSA would be expected to significantly
improve its participation in the increasing demand for the transport of grains and
grain products from North and West Parana and from Mato Grosso do Sul to the pro-
cessing plants in Ponta Grossa and to the port of Paranagua, and, to a smaller
extent, in the transport of grains produced in the 'CerraCios region of Goias and
Minas Gerais.



-9-
C. The Rationalization of Operations and Network
2.11      KFESA, during the past 15 years, completed a number of programs to
reduce nonremunerative freight and passenger services and to close low traffic
density lines with a view toward gradually rationalizing its operations and net-
work, consistently with the traffic specialization described. Between the late
1960s and 1982, aU services were withdrawn, and, in some cases, rails were
lifted, on a total of about 10,000 km of low-traffic-density lines.  Services were
also discontinued on a further 2,000 km of lines between January 1983 and April
1985. Although additional service reductions and line closures would have been
desirable from both commercial and economic viewpoints, the Government has re-
quested RFFSA to maintain them for various reasons, including defense. Neverthe-
less, RFFSA, in order to reduce losses on such lines and services, undertook cost-
saving measures such as reductions in service frequency and track maintenance
levels, and improvements in train formations.
2.12      Since its current cost accounting system does not permit accurate iden-
tification of the costs and revenues of individual services or line sections,
RFFSA unaertook, in 1982, to assess its losses on such services and line sections
through specific cost-of-service analysis. Four areas of RFFSA's operations were
identified as having significant scope for cost savings. Regarding the first one,
the inter-city passenger business, in 1983-1984, RFFSA, with Government concur-
rence, discontinued a large number of services representing over two million
train-km per annum (or 20% of the total). A program for further reductions of
passenger services has been included in the project (para. 3.06). The second area
is the Northeast system, which is characterized by low traffic densities on a
large portion of its network, and by high operating costs. The Government, how-
ever, considers the railway system an important service to this poor region and
requires RFFSA to operate it. In order to minimize the net cost of operating the
Northeast system, besides further reductions of freight and passenger services and
closures of secondary lines, broad organizational and managerial reforms will be
necessary to adjust to the low traffic level. RFFSA has identified a number of
such necessary reforms, including restructuring of track and rolling stock mainte-
nance activities, reformulation of operating and administrative methods and pro-
cedures, closure of stations and terminals and promotion of intermDdal transport.
A special action program was prepared to implement these reforms during 1985-1989;
the program is expected to lead to a reduction of at least 13% of the total opera-
ting costs (excluding depreciation) by 1989 as compared to their 1984 level
(para. 3.06).
2.13      The third area for rationalization is specific commodity traffic on the
rest of the system. Northeast and passenger business excluded, the bulk of
RFFSA's past losses have been generated by specific co  odity traffics subject to
nonremunerative tariffs, in particular cement, grains and fertilizers.  Since the
traffic is large, even a small loss on a ton-km basis results in substantial com-
panywide losses. Although the bulk of this traffic is on medium- and high-
traffic-density lines, it is distributed among a large number of origin and/or
destination stations and terminals on these lines, resulting in significant opera-
tional inefficiencies and in high operating costs. Great scope for cost savings
therefore exists in consolidating commodity flows, particularly grains and grain
products, into fewer origins and/or destinations on the system, and in developing
intermodal transport accordingly. Traffic consolidation, which would be supported
and complemented with appropriate tariff and marketing actions (as discussed in
Section D following), would permit the gradual closing of low traffic stations and



- 10 -
the creation of specialized terminals. It would also facilitate the rationaliza-
tion of train operations, and permit more unit-through-trains.  For this purpose,
RFFSA has prepared an action program which would be included in the proposed pro-
ject; two pilot programs would first be implemented in the two corridors of Parana
and Goias-Minas Gerais, and the program, if successful, would, in a second phase,
be e.-tended to IFFSA's entire network (para. 3.;06).
2.14      Although the final withdrawal of services on low traffic lines would
result in only moderate savings because RFFSA nas already reduced services, as the
fourth area for rationalization, RFFSA identified about 3,500 km of such lines
(some in the Northeast) for complete withdrawal of services and closure with a
savings estimated at about US$6.0 million p.a. About 2,000 km of these lines had
been closed prior to mid-April 1985. RFFSA and the Government are committed to
close the remining 1,500 km between mid-1985 and mid-1986, and to establish
appropriate administrative mechanisms to implement and monitor a continuing
program of not comercially viable service reductions and line closures. RFFSA
would annually assess the operational results of its individual lines and services
to establish their viability, and, based upon this assessment (rather than upon
traffic density), RFFSA and the Government would agree on the lines and services
to be closed and on those to be maintained during the following year, as well as
on the corresponding normalization payments (paras. 3.06 and 3.07).
2.15      The Government is making normalization payments for the nonremunerative
services which it requires MFFSA to operate. Two regions and one subregion are
subject to normalization payments. For freight traffic, the payments are made
according to a simple formula representing a fixed percentage (80 or 85%) of the
net loss. For passenger services, the normalization payments cover the entire
losses. Between 1979 and 1983, the annual normalization payments represented
about 20X of the total operating revenues of RFFSA. The existing form of normali-
zation is unsatisfactory since it gives RFFSA little, if any, incentive to improve
the efficiency of the services for which normalization payments are made. Fur-
ther, since payments are made on a regional, rather than individual, service or
section-of-line basis, there is no incentive for selective efficiency improve-
ments. A satisfactory normalization payment system should: (a) permit the effi-
cient operation of not commercially viable services that the Government judges
essential; (b) encourage the provision of the services at the lowest possible net
cost; and (c) allow for regular review of the need for normalization payments for
each individual service. An action plan has been prepared to develop the system
of normalization payments accordingly; its implementation will be supported by the
project (para. 3.07).
D. Costs and Tariffs, Maxketing and Cost Control
2.16      The costing system currently used by REESA to measure and allocate its
costs to different services, based upon the recommendations of a Bank consultant,
was introduced in 1973. Operating costs (including depreciation on a national
basis) are aggregated into some 90 cost categories, each being classified as
direct or indirect. The indirect costs are considered to be fixed, and the direct
costs are divided, on a percentage basis, into fixed and variable components. The
percentages were established at the time when the system was implemented, and,
although some adjustments have been introduced, they are generally no longer
appropriate as a result of the changes in relative costs and in traffic. Costs
are aggregated to regional (in some cases subregional) levels before unit costs
are calculated. An attempt has been made to differentiate between unit trains and



- 11 -
wagon load trains, but the same unit costs and some operating parameters are still
applied to both train types. The system therefore does not produce regularly (and
without specific, time-consuming "cost of service' studies) the cost information
which would be needed for effective cost control, tariff design and marketing.
RFFSA is aware of these deficiencies and is in the process of upgrading its traf-
fic costing. A first improvement, aiming to aggregate costs at the line-section
level, is already operational and is being refined. While this improvement is
significant, more work is necessary to establish a system that will permit the
costing of individual services and individual traffic flows by different train
types. An action program (with technical assistance) has been included in the
project to complete this work by the end of 1986 (para. 3.08).
2.17      The tariff structure of RFFSA was introduced in 1968, and it has changed
very little. RFFSA's revenues are based upon published tariffs and special con-
tract rates. The products that are subject to published tariffs are separated
into five groups, and, for each group, there are distinct tariffs based upon fixed
charges plus variable charges per unit of distance. In addition, during the past
years, 11 special tables (with lower variable charges) have been introduced for
specific products. With large traffic volume customers (e.g., MBR for iron ore or
PETROBRAS for petroleum products) and with customers who, in addition to normal
rail services, require from RFFSA pick-up or delivery services to or from rail
heads, RFFSA can negotiate special contract rates and subcontract road transport
to trucking companies. RFFSA's tariffs (and, to a large extent, contract rates
for key commodities) are controlled by an interministerial comittee (CIP), which
determines the prices of commodities and services in Brazil (para. 2.19). Until
recently, CIP has authorized RFFSA to adjust its tariffs according to various
price indices, providing some scope for increases higher than the consumer price
index (INPC). However, until 1982, there was no agreed time frame for regular
tariff adjustments, and the time lag between RFFSA's request and CIP's authoriza-
tion often reddced the effectiveness of the tariff increases. Since January 1983,
quarterly tariff adjustments, equal to the variation of the INPC, have been intro-
duced.
2.18      Since RFFSA's tariff structure has hardly changed during the last 17
years, and since most of the revisions involved setting tariffs, with a view
toward offsetting inflationary impacts, at a socially and politically acceptable
level, the current tariffs have only an incidental relationship to the market
conditions and to the costs of the services provided. For example, in 1984, each
of the average revenues of 11 products (representing about 75% of RFFSA's traffic)
were considerably below the tariffs that were charged by trucks, and the average
revenue of only one product (coal) covered the applicable total operating costs.
In the same year, the average revenues for only four products exceeded the rele-
vant average working costs, and, in the case of cement, soya, corn and fertil-
izer, not even the medium term marginal cost was recovered (Table 2.2). During
the last six years, the average freight revenues hardly increased in real terms;
therefore, the improvements of RFFSA's financial performance were essentially
related to cost-savings. A preliminary study of a commercially oriented tariff
policy and of alternative strategies to meet commercial objectives was completed
(with GEIPOT's assiotance) in October 1984. The study clearly indicated that, in
the future, selective tariff adjustments, based upon selective marketing, should
complement cost savings to eliminate the railway's operating deficits.



- 12 -
2.19      RFFSA's tariff freedom, effective in 1988, will permit the railway to
introduce cost-based, market-oriented tariffs in line with its corporate objec-
tives. However, in order to ensure the gradual improvement of the railway's
finances, tariff/marketing actions will be introduced prior to 1988. As a first
step REFSA's tariffs were increased, in February 1985, by 10% above the 1984
December quarter inflation. RFFSA also intends to introduce (with the Govern-
ment's support) cost and tariff measures to recover, by the end of 1985, at least
the relevant working costs of transporting cement, grains and fertilizers. In
addition, by the end of June 1985, RFFSA will complete a costing and marketing
study covering the operation of the 13 most important products representing about
90% of its total traffic, and will develop a plan to recover, by the end of 1986,
at least the relevant working and administrative costs plus depreciation and
interest on rolling stock. Under the project, RFFSA will develop (with consultant
assistance) a new tariff structure to be introduced at the end of 1987, with
built-in incentives for freight consolidation and for phasing out unprofitable
services, with the aim of full cost recovery.
E. Operations and Maintenance
(i)   Operating Performance
2.20      KFFSA's operating performance has been mixed since the late 1970s, after
substantial improvements made during most of the last decade; however, overall
performance, as compared to other railway systems in developing countries, remains
satisfactory. The availability of locomotives decreased from 82% in 1980 to 80%
in 1984, but, more important, their reliability and effectiveness deteriorated,
further affecting their annual mileage in traction (52,000 km in 1984 as against
63,000 in 1980). Although the availability of wagons remains satisfactory, and
their productivity has increased from 1,800 to almost 1,900 net ton-km per wagon
day in use, their average turnaround time (excluding MBR iroa ore export traffic)
worsened to almost 15 days, reflecting longer stays in terminals. On the other
hand, train compositions have continued to improve, the average net train load
increasing from 840 to 969 tons. Of more significance, however, the productivity
of RFFSA's staff has improved considerably, as a result of drastic rationalization
measures achieved over the last 15 years by RFFSA's successive managements; the
railway's staff was reduced from almost 130,000 in the early 1970s to about 67,000
in 1985 2J, Table 2.3 gives a summary of RFFSA's operating statistics for
1979-198Z.
2.21      Operating performance is obviously affected by many factors.  One must
first remember, when analyzing RFFSA's operating statistics, that RFFSA's most
important corridors are in very difficult terrain in the mountainous central and
coastal regions; train size and speed restrictions, necessary recompositions of
trains and the need for helper locomotives on some sections have an important
impact upon performance. In addition, these regions were affected in 1982-1984 by
unusually heavy rains which did considerable damage to the railway infrastructure
and had an adverse effect upon performance. Other important external factors
during the first half of the 1980s were the general economic situation and the
Government's austerity program which, with the associated fund shortages and
import restrictions, led RFFSA to reduce maintenance standards, particularly for
2/ The 1985 figure excludes a staff of about 15,000 transferred to CBTU.



- 13 -
locomotives, and to defer essential track renewals and infrastructure rehabilita-
tion works. Nevertheless, in the operation of the railway, there are also
important problems within the realm of iFFSA's management to resolve; they are
discussed in the following sections.
(ii)   Operations Mane t
2.22      Operations planning and management responsibilities are vested essen-
tially in the regions. Each regional superintendency has control over the loco-
motive and car fleets assigned to the region, and over train programing and sched-
uling. While such autonomy allows regionsl management to plan for the best pos-
sible use of its fleets within the region's network, it leads to considerable
inefficiencies in dealing with interregional traffic, including the changes of
line haul locomotives at regional borders. Also, despite the efforts of the head-
quarters' Operations Department to arrange for temporary interchanges of rolling
stock, the distribution of locomotives and cars always remains far below a system-
wide optimum. These factors have been, and still are, the major contributors to
the poor utilization and productivity of RFFSA's locomotives and rolling stock.
2.23      In order to improve the management of its operations, RFFSA undertook,
in 1978, the development of a real-time operations information system (OIS). The
Government's computer policy led RFFSA to develop a system based upon minicom-
puters which are manufactured in Brazil, despite their incompatibility regarding
system language and communication disciplines with the minicomputers which were in
place in the regions and with the mainframe which is installed at headquarters.
The new hardware is now in service in the regions of Parana, Minas Gerais and Rio
Grande do Sul, and the installation for the whole network is scheduled for comple-
tion by the end of 1985. The software packages currently available, which have
been written internally at a cost of many man-years of development time, cover
(besides data files on fixed installations) movements of locomotives, rolling
stock and trains, and inventory of cars at stations and termJnals. The OIS, as
developed in a region-based configuration, which is consistent with the present
organization of operations, is expected to improve operations management at the
regional level and, when fully operational, to generate increases of about 5% in
the utilization and productivity of the regional fleets. It would not, however,
provide RFFSA's headquarters with real-time information as necessary to improve
interregional coordination and to optimize locomotive and rolling stock distribu-
tion companywide. Furthermore, maintaining two independent computer systems - one
for operations management and the other for finance, accounting and materials man-
agement - would be an obstacle to the effective management of RFFSA.
2.24      RFFSA wishes to improve the management of its operations, particularly
through strengthening interregional coordination, and to redirect the development
of its OIS accordingly. RFFSA has agreed, first, to develop an organizational
plan that removes data processing from the Controllers Department, the OIS from
the Operations Department and telecommunications from the Engineering Department
to form a new Infcrmation and Control Systems organizational unit and, after
approval by its board of directors, to present it to the Bank for comment
(para. 3.16). RFFSA would also, under the project, prepare and implement an
Operations Management Development master plan which would provide for a reorgani-
zation of operations management to strengthen interregional coordination, and for
an appropriate development of the OIS and of the related telecommunications and
data transmission system (para. 3.10). The plan would, in particular, define the



- 14 -
details of a strategy to integrate the OIS and data processing hardware and
software systems into a teleprocessing network. It is expected that the hardware
currently being installed in the regions for the OIS would be integrated, with the
regional minicomputers used as data concentrators. The plau would also aim at an
appropriate distribution of the various functional responsibilities between
RFFSA's central and regional administrations so that the efficiency gains that the
OIS would permit would be fully realized. It is expected that functions such as
the control of locomotives and wagons (including the distribution of empty
wagons), train movements, and the routing of traffic would ultimately be performed
centrally, while other functions such as terminal, yard, workshop and store
management would be distributed at the regional or district level.
(iii)    Hotive Power, Roflig Stock and WVrkshops
2.25      1FFSA's system is essentially diesel-operated.  At the end of 1984,
XFFSA had 1,628 diesel locomotives, of which 771 units, i.e., almost half the
fleet, were over 20 years old and 363 units (or 22X) were over 25 years old
(Table 2.4). RFFSA purchased 20 new diesel locomotives in 1984, which will be
delivered in 1985-1986 to replace some of its oldest units. RFFSA also has 53
electric locomotives operating on the broad-gauge network. The condition of the
diesel fleet has deteriorated significantly during the past five years as a result
of aging and of RPFSA's inability to make the necessary heavy overhauls and reha-
bilitation works in the face of fund shortages and import restrictions. An in-
creasing number of the older, unreliable locomotives have therefore been used
essentially for switch work.
2.26      RFFSA's strategy for the next five years is to remanufacture the loco-
motives which are of a sound design and which can economically be upgraded to
appropriate standards, to gradually retire or scrap those of obsolete design when
subject to a major failure, and to purchase new, more efficient locomotives to
renew the fleet as needed to cope with the increasing traffic load. Since the
need for locally stationed switch locomotives is expected to lessen as a result of
the railway's strategy to consolidate stations, terminals and yards, RFFSA intends
to gradually replace a number of switch locomotives with appropriately remanufac-
tured locomotives which would be used mainly for switch work, and for line-haulage
when refueling or maintenance inspection is needed. This arrangement would also
enable RFFSA to consolidate fueling and maintenance facilities.
2.27      RFFSA has undertaken the first phase of its locomotive remanufacturing
program. A total of 84 locomotives, for which components and spare parts have
been purchased, are scheduled for remanufacture or heavy overhaul in 1985-1986.
The corresponding work is being contracted to the local industry. There are also
258 units (of G8 and G12 models), built between 1958 and 1963, which a.ght need to
be remanufactured when subject to a major failure, and which could then make ade-
quate road-switch locomotives. Table 2.5 shows the justification for remanufac-
turing these locomotives.  RYFSA's investment plan for 1985-1989 includes a second
phase of the remanufacturing program (for about 160 of the above-mentioned units)
as well as minor iLvestments to improve the fuel efficiency of certain models.
2.28      RFFSA estimates its needs for locomotive purchases during 1985-1989 at
about 50 new units, which would replace the old line-haul units to be used for
road-switch work (Table 2.6). The forecast assumes annual retirements of line-
haul locomotives contained below 3% of the fleet; improvements in availabUlity of
about 6%, to result from the proposed maintenance action program; increases in



- 15 -
utilization of up to 10% (depending on the region), to result from the operations
management action program; and increased train loads and speeds, to result from
planned track rehabilitation and improvement works, from an increasing proportion
of unit-through-trains, and from Improved train formations. These improvements
are consistent with the currently expected Impacts of RFFSA'S investment and
action plans. RFFSA will regularly update its assessment of locomotive needs,
which will be reviewed by the Bank as part of the annual joint review of RFFSA's
rolling investment plan (para. 3.11).
2.29      RFFSA had about 39,000 wagons in commercial use by the end of 1984, of
which about 20% were over 30 years old (Table 2.7). The general condition of the
fleet is good, but older wagons need to be modernized. RFFSA has prepared, and
included in its investment plan, a program for the conversion of box cars into
grain cars and the modernization of about 1,800 units. The program consists of
improvements to braking systems, installation of grain doors in box wagons and of
roller bearings. Presently each region is making its own overhauls and improve-
ments, but generally not up to the standards of modern techniques. RFFSA intends
to implement the program through setting up a production line. It estimates its
needs for new wagon purchases, during 1985-1989, at between 4,000 and 6,000 units,
depending upon the impact of the operations management action plan (Table 2.8).
2.30      The railway has 121 locomotive -  and 94 rolling stock - maintenance
and servicing facilities, inherited from the individual predecessors of RFPSA,
and, therefore, carrying overlapping activities and responsibilities. The region-
al structure of RFFSA only perpetuated the situation. Each region has a main
workshop for locomotive repair and component overhaul; in most cases, locomotives
must wait while components are being repaired. RFPSA's shops are in. good condi-
tion, but, with a few exceptions, both the work methods and the machinery used are
old or obsolete. Most of the fueling facilities lack anti-pollution or safety
devices. The project includes an action program aimed at a gradual consolidation
of these facilities and at developing a unit exchange component program. Two
pilot programs would be implemented, under the project, in the corridors of Parana
and Goias-Minas Gerais (para. 3.30).
(iv) Track Eadutenance
2.31      RFFSA's system consists of about 23,000 route-km, including about 21,200
km of meter gauge and 1,800 km of broad gauge (1.60 m) lines; there are about 400
km of double tracks, and 800 km are electrlfied (Map IBRD 18760). Because of the
mountainous terrain, alignments, particularly in the two export corridors and in
the SK-3 and SR-4 regions, are often poor with many curves and steep gradients.
Track infrastructure is poor in many sections, and urgent works are needed specif-
ically for the stabilization of cuts and embankments and improvements in drainage
systems. The tracks are, at besc, in fair condition; rehabilitation and track
upgrading are crucial in the two export corridors to allow for coping with
increasing traffic.
2.32      The railway has been undertaking a program of selective track renewal,
using heavy rails with welded joints (in some sections, with elastic fastenings),
supported on concrete or treated-timber sleepers; the objective has been to
provide an improved standard of track and safety conditions for sections where
traffic increases markedly and where heavier locomotives and freight cars would be
used. However, during recent years, this program, together with the general
maintenance of the track, had to be scaled down because of financial constraints.



- 16 -
An important effort will be needed to reduce the backlog of track maintenance. In
particular, the planning, programing and monitoring methods and procedures will
need to be strengthened. An action plan has been included for that purpose in the
project (para. 3.10).
F. Investment
2.33      RFFSA's investments totaled about USS2.8 billion equivalent over the
five-year 1980-1984 period; during the period, however, annual capital expendi-
tures decreased by almost two-thirds (Table 2.9). The construction of the Ferro-
via do Ago and the improvement of the suburban commuter systems each accounted for
about one-third of total investment. The other major investments were related to
the rehabilitation of the meter-gauge network, the improvement of the central line
and the Sao Paulo branch, and the purchase and rehabilitation of locomotives and
wagons. New investments on the Ferrovia do Aco were drastically cut back in 1983
and stopped in 1984. As a result of the Government's austerity program, RFFSA had
to postpone needed rehabilitation works on the high traffic density lines of its
meter-gauge network.
2.34      RFFSA's investment plan and related financing plan for the period
1985-1989 have been organized into three groups (Tables 2.10 and 2.11).   Groun I,
which consists of investments approved for implementation with secured (or quasi-
secured) financing, includes, besides the components of the proposed project, on-
going rehabilitation works on critical line sections in Rio Grande do Sul and
Bahia (BNDES-financed), ongoing rehabilitation-overhaul of 84 locomotives and
delivery of the 20 locomotives purchased in 1984 (foreign-bank-financed); and
purchase of 3U0 special-purpose wagons and computer hardware (BNDES-group-
financed). *Group II, which'consists of contemplated investments for which pre-
investment studies need to be completed and final scope, programing and/or finan-
cing need to be firmed up, includes the improvement of yards, terminals and traf-
fic control and telecommunications systems on the Central line; a program for
locomotive remanufacturing and improvement and for wagon modernization; the devel-
opment of operations and management information systems, and the improvement of
workshops. Group III consists of proposed investments which, on the basis of the
results of prefeasibility studies, seem to be sound. However, preparatory work
for these components is still at an early stage. Investments related to the
Ferrovia do Ago project have been stopped, with the exception of the already
contracted delivery of equipment and materials at a cost of about US$82 million
over 1985-1988 (representing 7% of the total investment plan); there is no deci-
sion to complete the project.
2.35      Investment priorities have been defined on the basis of the results of
the commodity and traffic studies mentioned above, and of an extensive screening
of the investment alternatives identified on the meter-gauge network. Feasibil-
ity studies have been completed for the investments included in Group I. The
economic evaluation of the project's couponents is summarized in Chapter V. Both
rehabilitation projects in the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Bahia have been
appraised and are being financed by BNDES. The Rio Grande do Sul project, which
includes infrastructure works on about 300 km, and track renewals on about 200 km
of main lines, as well as yard and telecommunications improvements, has an esti-
mated economic rate of return (ERR) of 17Z. The Bahia project, which includes
drainage works and track renewals on a total of about 200 km of lines, has an
estimated ERR of 15%. The justification for locomotive and rolling stock rehabil-
itation and renewals was discussed in Section E preceding.



- 17 -
C.   Planning and            . Traini.g
2.36      RFFSA has made significant progress in the last few years in developing
planning and management systems in various areas of the company, including market-
ing and production, operations (OIS), programing and budget control, finance,
materials and personnel. Progress was also made in assessing investment priori-
ties and in preparing and evaluating investment programs and projects. However,
Government intervention in RFFSA's management and the lack of well defined company
objectives and strategies have led each area to develop its own planning and man-
agement system independently from the other areas and often without taking full
account of its information resources and needs.
2.37      For more effective direction and control, KFFSA needs to strengthen its
planning and management systems. Priority should be given to the formulation of
the company's objectives, policies and strategies within the commercially oriented
environment newly created by the December 1984 Presidential Decree, and to the
definition of consistent objectives and operational targets in the various admin-
istrative areas and hierarchical levels; they would constitute the company's stra-
tegic plan. Programs and projects, both in areas of capital investment and of
institutional development, would then need to be developed, updated, revised or
even discontinued, consistently with the company's objectives. Emphasis should be
put upon compatibility, or the integration of the various planning and management
systems currently being developed, and upon the systematic appraisal of capital
investment proposals. For that purpose, RFFSA's management will have to rely more
intensively upon action planning, monitoring and evaluation techniques. The
policy and institutional component of the project has been organized accordingly
into a set of action plans and programs. It also includes a planning and
management development action plan aimed at developing strategic planning, action
planning and monitoring and evaluation systems and at preparing (and updating)
RFFSA's strategic and corporate plans (para. 3.11).
2.38      The budget and cost control is basically decentralized.  The process
starts in April of each year, with the central management developing what it
expects to be the total fund requirements for the coming year; fund ceilings for
each region are developed in November and approved in December. The regions
distribute funds to the cost centers, trying to accommodate the centers' require-
ments. After a budget revision in August, generally no further fund reallocation
takes place between the regions, although, within a region, it can take place
until the end of each year. The control of the use of the funds (with the excep-
tion of cash payments for materials which are rigidly controlled by the Head
Office) are basically regional responsibilities. Central management uses the
consolidated accounting data from the regions primarily for information and rarely
for operative control. The budgetary system needs to be upgraded in a manner
complementary to the costing system, with a clear definition of the performance
responsibilities and accountabilities, particularly inside the regions, in order
to become a useful tool for commercially oriented management control. The plan-
ning and management development action plan would include a component for that
purpose (para. 3.11).
2.39      RFFSA has a commercial-type accounting system which meets the legal re-
quirements of the country and is generally adequate for overall control. However,
because of partial indexing (applied, until recently, at a rate less than infla-
tion and cnly to fixed assets and long-term liabilities), neither the accounts nor
the periodical year-end reports and statements, particularly considering the



- 18 -
accelerated Brazilian inflation, provide results in comparable terms. Apart from
the insufficient indexing, the railway's fixed assets need to be revalued on a
technical basis as well; the last such revaluation took place in 1979. As part of
the action progras to upgrade cost information, RFPSA will develop, with consul-
tant assistance currently being negotiated, and introduce, by the end of 1985, a
suitable system of indexing to produce accounting information in comparable terms,
and the railway's fixed asset inventory will be revalued, based upon technical
considerations, by mid-1986 (paras. 3.08 and 3.09).
2.40      RFFSA has a well functloniug internal audit section.  Also, in accord-
ance with Brazilian legal requirements, the accounts are audited by Government
auditors. In addition, the railway contracts private auditors whose reports on
the accounts and the financial statements are generally ready within five nonths
of the end of the year. The present audit arrangements are satisfactory, but the
private auditors' work scope should be expanded to include management and systems
audit with a view toward assisting RFFSA's management in turning the railway into
a commercial entity.
2.41      RFFSA has given priority to the training of its technical and admlnis-
trative staff over the past ten years, when large reductions were made in its work
force. External training is provided in many fields through Government technical
institutions and programs. Special needs such as training in troubleshooting me-
chanics and train operation are provided for satisfactorily with internal re-
sources. Training of administrative staff in the operation of the computerized
OIS being installed is also adequate. RFFSA, however, has given less attention to
the training of middle-level and senior-level management staff. Training at these
levels will be needed to complement the various action plans and to achieve effec-
tive management development; a program has been included in the project for that
purpose (paras. 3.11 and 3.12).
III.  UK PRoJLcr
3.01      The main purpose of the project is the financial rehabilitation and the
establishment of a framework for the commercially oriented operation of the
federal railway, turning it primarily Into a freight carrier. The principal
policy and institutional measures necessary, which had been under discussion among
the Government, RFESA, and the Bank for Almost three years, have recently been
taken, in particular through a Presidential Decree issued December 4, 1984. The
project is designed to provide support to RFFSA and the Government in implementlig
these measures, as well as in improving transport efficiency in the two export
corridors of Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais.
A. Project Objectives and Rationale
3.02      The objectives of the project are: (a) the financial rehabilitation and
improved commercial performance of the federal railway; and (b) increased trans-
port efficiency in the two export corridors of Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais. By
achieving these objectives, the project would contribute to more efficient re-
source use in the transport sector, particularly through further specializing the
railway in the services for which it bas comparative advantage over road trans-
port, and to reducing public sector deficits. It would also contr,bute to facili-
tating exports, especially the export of grains and grain products from the states



- 19 -
of Parana and Mato Grosso do Sul, and from the "Cerrados" region of Goias and
Mias Gerais, as we-l as the export of various industrial products.
3.03      In addition to supporting the economic rationale of the project, which
is consistent with the rationale underlying Brazil's stabilization program, the
Bank would, in extending the loan, provide vital support to 1.FFSA and the Govern-
ment to gradually turn the federal railway, through the implementation of a get of
policies and action plans, into a commercially viable freight carrier.
B. Project Diecriptio=
3.04      The project includes a policy and institutional development (action
plan) component, addressing companywide and sectoral Issues, and an Investment
component consisting of the two export corridor projects.
(i)   Ike Policy and Inst Autioial Ibvelopmct Action Plan
3.05      The policy and institutional development compacnct would conw _t of the
implementation of policies and action plans for: (a) cost saviogp, rationaliza-
tioo of the railway's operations and network, and normalization of not commer-
cially viable lines and services; (b) tariff restructuring and adjustmental, and
upgrading of cost-accounting and marketing; (c) operations and maintenance effi-
ciency improvements; (d) strengthening of RFFSA's planning and management systes
and training of management staff; and (e) improving transport (and Inter-railroad)
coordination in the Southeast corridors.
3.06      The cost-savings and normalization action plan, which aims toward gradu-
ally rationalizing the railway ' operations and network, would consist of with-
drawals (and frequency reductions) of not commercially viable passenger services;
the withdrawal of all services on, and closure of, not commercially viable lines;
and a program of specialization, consolidation and closure of railway stations and
terminals. A special program would be implemented in the Northeast region to re-
duce the regional superintendency's deficit through further cost-saving measures,
particularly related to the organization and management of operations and mainte-
nance. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that RFFSA would: (a) between
July 1, 1985 and June 30, 1986, close not less than 1,500 km of not commercially
viable llnes, of which not less than 750 km would be in the regional superinten-
dencies of Recife and Salvador and the operational division of Campos, and reduce
passenger train services by not less than I million train-ki, of which not less
than 400,000 train-km would be in the above-mentioned administrative units;
(b) implement an operations rationalization program in the Northeast region as per
terms of reference (TORs) and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank, and each
year reduce the superintendency's total operating cost (excluding depreciation) by
at least 2.5%, so that, in 1989, it should be at least 13% less than in '284; and
(c) implement a station consolidation and closure program in the Parana and Goias-
Minas Gerais corridors and prepare to extend the program to its entire network, as
per TOKs and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
3.07      The system of normalization payments would be upgraded to promote effi-
ciency, in particular cost savings, in the operation of the not commercially
viable lines and services Which the Government requires RFFSA to maintain tempo-
rarily. The system would allow the Government and KFFSA to annually review the
need to maintain such lines and services, and to implement and monitor service and
line closures. Agreement was reached, during loan negotiations, on che following



- 20 -
normalization mechanisms: (a) RFFSA would annually review the operational and
financial results of its individual lines and services, establish their commprcial
viability, and prepare cost-tariff revenue forecasts for the not commercially
viable lines and services; (b) the Government would, on that basis and prior to
July 31 of each year, define the lines and services it would require RFFSA to
maintain during the following year, agree with RFFSA on the corresponding normal-
ization payments, and arrange for the necessary budget appropriations and pay-
ments; and (c) RFFSA would, within one month, inform the Bank of the decisions
taken, forward the supporting documentation for review and comment, and undertake
to close its not commercially viable lines and services other than those under
(b) prior to year end. Also, it was confirmed during loan negotiations that
(d) from 1987, the normalization system would be based upon the upgraded cost
accounting system and upon an incentive-based payment formula satisfactory to the
Bank, and the system would be extended to all not commercially viable lines and
services; (e) in 1985, normalization payments would be not less than US$60.0
million equivalent, and in 1986, they would be not less than 50X of the total
nor-malization due; any amount owed to RFFSA on account of the 1985 and 1986
normalization would be paid not later thar the end of 1990; and (f) Government
normalization payments to RFFSA, expressed as a percentage of RFFSA's total opera-
ting revenues, would be contained until 1989 below the designated percentages (12Z
in 1989) shown in Table 3.1, and kept decreasing thereafter, through appropriate
closures of not commercially viable lines and services.
3.08      The costing, tariff and marketing action plan would consist of upgrading
RFFSA's cost-accounting and tariff systems with a view toward providing a suffi-
cient basis to develop and implement appropriate marketing strategies and effec-
tive management control. The cost-accounting system would be upgraded to provide
cost information for individual services and origin-destination commodity flows;
to determine cost variability with traffic, operational methods and efficiency; to
allocate common costs to individual services as appropriate; and to provide a
reliable basis for cost forecasting. The dissemination of cost and performance
information would also be improved, particularly its format and delivery speed, to
permit effective monitoring, evaluation and corrective action.
3.09      RFFSA's tariff structure would be reformulated with a view toward gradu-
ally eliminating unjustified internal cross-subsidization and recovering the full
cost of the individual services.  It would ensure that, iu the short term, no
freight would be carried at less than its avoidable cost and that, for traffic
with long-term prospects, RFFSA would at least recover average c_ts.  The new
tariff 3tructure would also provide the necessary incentives to acLieve KFFSA's
corporate objectives, in particular those related tc operational rationalization,
traffic consolidation, operation of more unit-through-trains, and phasing out of
nonremunerative services. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations that
KFFSA would: (a) by the end of 1985, recover at least the total working costs of
transporting wheat, soya, corn, fertilizers and cement; (b) complete a costing and
marketing study covering its 13 most important products, and, based upon the
results, develop, forward to the Bank for comment prior to July 15, 1985, and
thereafter implement a plan to recover, by the end of 1986, the relevant working
and administrative costs plus depreciation and interest on rolling stock; (c) up-
grade its cost-accounting system and put it into operation prior to the end of
1986; and (d) develop a new tariff structure, and put it into effect not later
than January 1, 1988, as per TORs satisfactory to the Bank.



- 21 -
3.10      The operations and maintenance action plan would aim toward upgrading
management systems for operations, locomotive and rolling stock maintenance, and
track maintenance. The operations program would iaclude the appropriate develop-
ment of EFFSA's (computerized) operations information system (OIS), integrating it
with the other management information and control systems (MIS) into a telepro-
cessing network, and a reorganization of operations to strengthen interregional
coordination. A comprehensive master plan, covering the reorganization, the OIS
and telecommunications would be developed, and software would be purchased to
speed up development of the 0IS. The action program for improving locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance would consist of consolidating workshops and servicing
facilities in the two corridors and designing a plan to consolidate workshops com-
panywide and to implement a component-exchange program for locomotive repairs.
Also, a (computerized) MIS would be developed to help planning, programing, bud-
geting and monitoring track maintenance. It was agreed during loan negotiations
that RFFSA would: (a) prepare an operations management development master plan as
per TORs satisfactory to the Bank, present it to the Bank for commpnts not later
than the end of 1985, and implement it thereafter; and (b) implement a locomotive
and rolling stock maintenance action program and a track maintenance action
program as per TORs and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
3.11      The planning and management development action plan would aim toward
(a) introducing strategic planning and preparing RFFSA's corporate plan; (b) up-
grading management information and control systems; and (c) training management,
in particular middle-management staff, in related planning and management tech-
niques and in the efficient utilization of the systems. The strategic planning
action program would focus upon a more explicit definition of the railway's objec-
tives and policies, in line with the recent Presidential Decree; upon disseminat-
ing appropriate planning techniques, particularly for investment and action pro-
gram design and evaluation; and upon preparing (and updating) RFFSA's corporate
plan. The MIS development action program would focus upon upgrading information,
monitoring and evaluation systems, including budgetary and cost-control systems,
and upon disseminating project and task management techniques. Also, a project
monitoring system would be established specifically for the project (para. 3.16).
It was confirmed during loan negotiations that KFFSA would: (a) implement a plan-
ning and management development action plan as per TORs and time schedule satis-
factory to the Bank; (b) regularly update its pluriannual investment plan into a
rolling plan through systematic investment evaluations and review of priorities
made in accordance with technical, economic and financial methods and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) refrain from undertaking any investment unless it is
justified according to the above-mentioned methods and criteria; and (d) exchange
views with the Bank each year on its investment and financing plans.
3.12      The management training program would include advanced in-service train-
ing for about 200 middle-level and senior-level managers of the head office and
regional superintendencies in the areas of corporate p anning, project monitoring
and evaluation, operations and maintenance management, marketing and cost-control,
information and human resources management, and the training of about 20 instruc-
tors. The program would be implemented through specialized training centers in
Brazil and in other countries, and through seminars conducted by management train-
ing specialists. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that RFFSA would
implement the management training program as per TORs and time schedule satisfac-
tory to the Bank.



- 22 -
3.13      The transport coordination - Southeast corridors - program would aim
toward strengthening coordination among the three railway companies (RFFSA, FEPASA
and EFNY) and the port companies in the Southeast region, as well as shipping
lines, and would focus upon developing and implementing coordinated strategies for
operations, marketing and development. Specific objectives would be: (a) to
foster the coordination of the railroads' operations (eventually some administra-
tive integration) in the Vitoria, Rio de Janeiro, Santos and Parana corridors and
to facilitate intermodal operations at the ports and inland; (b) to strengthen
marketing efforts to develop competitive multimodal railway-based transport ser-
vices and to make the best possible use of existing facilities; and tc) to prepare
and implement coordinated strategies and plans for the rehabilitation and develop-
ment of the transport systems, consistently with the strategies for the agricul-
tural and industrial development of the region. As part of this program, an
assessment would be made of the technical and economic feasibility of the plans
for commercializing and exporting large volumes of grains and grain products from
the region of the cerrados of Goias and Minas Gerais. It was confirmed during
loan negotiations that the Ministry of Transport would undertake the transport
coordination action program, with the participation of the transport companies, as
per TORs and time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) Dhe Eport Corridor Projects
3.14      The investment component (the Goias-Minas Gerais and the Parana corridor
projects, Maps IBRD 18761 and 18762) would include: (a) rehabilitation of track
infrastructure and/or superstructure on the most critical sections of the two
corridors; construction, rehabilitation and extension of sidings; and purchase of
track maintenance machinery and plant equipment; (b) improvement of traffic con-
trol and telecommunications systems on high traffic density line sections;
(c) rehabilitation and improvement of yards, of locomotive and rolling stock main-
tenance workshops, and of servicing facilities; and (d) improvement of intermodal
facilities.
3.15      Infrastructure works would include the stabilization of cuts and embank-
ments, and improvements to drainage systems, on a total of about 650 line-km in
the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and 600 line-km in the Parana corridor; the reha-
bilitation of bridge structures in both corridors, and of tunnels in Parana; the
lengthening of existing sidings, and construction of new sidings for improved
crossing of trains. Superstructure works would consist of replacing rails,
sleepers, fastenings and/or ballast on a total of about 650 line-km in the Goias-
Minas corridor and 950 line-km in the Parana corridor.  Microwave telecommunica-
tions, and signaling systems ranging from spring switches and radio-controlled
block to relay-interlocking with supervisory traffic control, would be installed
on the higher traffic density line sections (about 192 km in Minas Gerais and 254
km in Parana). A marshaling yard would be built in each corridor, and existing
ones would be rehabilitated or improved. Some workshop buildings would be
expanded and/or equipped with additional machinery, and new locomotive fueling and
servicing facilities would be built. Eight intermodal facilities, consisting of
grain silos of static capacities ranging from 10,000 to 40,000 tons, would be
built upcountry on the two corridors (four on each one) to improve transshipment
of grains and grain products. Annex 3 gives the main design features of the two
corridor projects. The necessary detailed engineering designs are satisfactory.



- 23-
C.   Project Imp}e-tation
3.16      Project implementation would be the responsibility of RFFSA, with the
exception of the transport coordination action program, which would be managed by
MT. The various action plans would be carried out by RFFSA's respective head
office directorates, with appropriate technical assistance, and with the support
of the regional superintendencies. Development and installation of the related
computerized information and control systems would be placed in a new organiza-
tional unit, regrouping the existing services for data processing, OIS and tele-
communications. A new strategic planning unit would be established to carry out,
with appropriate technical assistance, the planning and management action plan and
to coordinate the implementation of the other action plans. The two corridor
projects would be implemented by RFFSA's head office Engineering (for permanent
way works and signaling), Operations (for yards and workshops), and Marketing (for
intermodal facilities) Directorates, with the support of the respective depart-
ments of the regional Superintendencies (SR-2 and SK-5); operation of the silos
would be contracted to RFFSA's subsidiary company AGEF. A Project Management Unit
which would be established in RFFSA's headquarters, with teams in SR-2 and SR-5,
would have primary responsibility for the implementation of the two corridor pro-
jects and would coordinate the various organizational units involved. It was
agreed during loan negotiations that RFFSA would establish and thereafter maintain
organizational arrangements and a project monitoring system satisfactory to the
Bank, and staff with adequate qualifications for the implementation of the pro-
ject; agreement was reached on the organization plan and staffing plan for the
management of the project, on outline terms of reference for the action programs,
and on the reporting requirements. As a condition for loan effectiveness, RFFSA
should put into effect the above-mentioned organization and staffing plans.
3.17      The implementation of the project would be monitored against a targeted
time-schedule starting July 1, 1985 and ending December 31, 1989 (Chart 27093),
and against the operational and financial performance targets shown in Table 3.1,
which were agreed to during loan negotiations.
D.   Project Cost and Finaacnng
3.18      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$422.0 million
equivalent, including US$7.7 million for the policy and institutional development
component, US$188.8 million for the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and US$225.5
million for the Parana corridor project. The foreign exchange cost component is
about US$219.8 million, or 52%, and the tax component about US$58.2 million, or
14%. Total project cost includes physical contingencies for US$24.4 million, or
7.7% of base cost, and price contingencies for US$81.6 million (or 24% of base
cost plus physical contingencies) estimated on the basis of the relevant standard
disbursement profile (para. 3.21) and of the following forecast of price escala-
tion for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 5.0% in
1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8.0% in 1987-1990 and 5.0Z thereafter. Summary and detailed
cost tables are appended as Tables 3.2 to 3.5. Cost estimates are based upon
March 1985 prices. The costs of goods and equipment are based upon ex-factory
prices for similar items manufactured in Brazil and recent prices of imported
items. The costs of civil works are based upoa detailed engineering designs and
prevailing unit prices. The cost estimates for consultant services are based upon
current local and foreign man-month rates; they provide for the cost of local
transport, office equipment and other minor items and, where appropriate, interna-
tional travel and per diem.



- 24 -
3.19      The project would be financed from:  (a) the proposed Bank loan of
US$200 million (or 47% of the project cost); (b) two loans from BNDES totaling
US$54.1 million equivalent (or 13% of the project cost): one of the loans (about
US$32.2 million) is already effective for the Parana corridor, and a loan of about
US$21.9 million is currently being negotiated for the Goias-M.inas Gerais corridor;
(c) a supplier credit of US$7.6 million (or 2% of the project cost), already
effective, for the acquisition of specific components of the signaling systems;
(d) RFFSA's own resources, of about US$118.0 million equivalent (or 28% of the
project cost), of which US$55 million is secured by a recent sale of assets to
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD); and (e) Federal Government contributions, in
the form of equity, of about US$42.3 million equivalent (or 10X of the project
cost). Summary and detailed financing tables are appended as Tables 3.6 to 3.9.
Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on the project financing plan and
on the Government's guarantee regarding all the necessary counterpart funds.
E.   Procurement
3.20      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Procurement Arrangents
(Estimated Cost in US$ Million)
Procurement Method        TOTAL
Expenditure Category         ICB            LCB       OTHER      COST
A.  Civil Works             104.8           93.1                 197.9
(29.1) 1/     (25.9)
B.  Materials                72.3           29.9                 102.2
(60.5)
C. Equipment                 86.6           15.4       7.6 3/   109.6
(67.0)        (11.0)
D.  Software                                           1.2         1.2
(1.0)
E.  Technical Assistance                               9.6 2/      9.6
(4.8)
F. Training of Personnel                               1.5 2/      1.5
(0.7)
TOTAL          263.7          138.4       19.9      422.0
(156.6)        (36.9)      (6.5)    (200.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
2/ According to Bank Guidelines.
3/ Supplier credit.
Goods financed by the Bank loan would be procured by RFFSA through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement,
except that, for contracts of US$250,000 equivalent or less, which would be too
small to attract foreign firms not already represented in Brazil, the award would
follow local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which were found at appraisal
to be satisfactory to the Bank; the related documentation is in the project file.
The Bank-financed portion of purchases contracted under these procedures would not
aggregate more than US$11.0 million, including contingencies. Local manufacturers
are likely to compete for most item to be procured under ICB, and, since they are



- 25 -
often competitive in the world market, it is possible that as much as 50% of the
orders to be financed under the Bank loan might be awarded locally. Local bidders
would be granted a margin of preference 3/ by adding 15% (or the applicable
custom duties, whichever is lower) to thi CIF value of the foreign bids. Civil
works contracts of US$5.0 million or more would be procured under ICB; LCB
procedures, which were found at appraisal to be acceptable to the Bank, would be
followed for contracts less than US$5.0 million. Since the Brazilian construction
industry is well developed, experienced and highly competitive, these contracts
are expected to be awarded locally, although foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to participate. All contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$3.0 million or more, would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation. Consultants for supervision of civil works,
technical assistance under the various action plans, and training would be
selected and engaged following the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.
Aggregate consultant costs are expected to be about US$10.0 million.
F. Disbursements
3.21      The loan would be disbursed for:  (a) civil works (stabilization of cuts
and embankments, improvement of drainage systems, siding infrastructure works,
rehabilitation of superstructure, and installation of signaling and telecommunica-
tion systems) at the rate of 35% of the total costs, which is the estimated aver-
age foreign exchange cost component; (b) purchases of rails, switches and fasten-
ings at the rate of 100% of CIF costs or, for the bids won by local manufacturers,
at 100% of ex-factory costs excluding taxes (with the exception of about 7,000
tons of rails and 1,000 tons of fastenings which would be supplied by CVRD as part
payment for assets purchased from RFFSA and used by RFFSA as counterpart funds for
the project); (c) purchases of track plant equipment, track machinery, signaling
and telecommunication equipment (excluding items to be financed under supplier
credit), workshop equipment, and grain silo equipment at the rate of 100% of CIF
costs or 100% of ex-factory costs, excluding taxes; (d) purchases of computer
software at the same rates as under (c); and (e) technical assistance and training
of staff at the rate of 50% of total cost. The period allowed for disbursement of
the loan would be six-and-a-half years, consistent with the Bank's standard dis-
bursement profile for railway projects in Brazil (Table 3.10).
3.22      In order to reduce the time period during which RFFSA would pre-finance
the Bank's share of the project cost, the Bank would make advance payments from
the loan account into a Special Account, to be opened in US dollars in the Central
Bank. Funds from the Special Account would be available for financing only the
Bank's share of the project cost. The amount deposited in the Special Account
would be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project execution, but
would not exceed US$15.0 million. Withdrawals would be on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure, showing the payments made by RFFSA; the supporting documentation
would be retained by RFFSA and would be available for inspection during project
supervision. On the basis of withdrawals made, the Central Bank, from time to
time, would request the Bank to replenish the Special Account.
3/ A local bidder is a Brazilian firm (or a consortiua) offering goods containing
components manufactured in Brazil and representing at least 50% of the value
of the complete goods.



-26 -
g. Accounts *od Audits
3.23      RFFSA would establish a Revolving Fund Account for the specific purpose
of carrying out its obligations related to the project. The Account would be
replenished with RFFSA's, the Government's and BNDES' (through RPFSA) contribu-
tions, and with withdrawals from the Special Account to reimburse project expendi-
tures eligible for Bank financing. During loan negotiations, RFFSA confirmed that
it would: (a) as a condition for loan effectiveness, establish a Project Revolv-
ing Fund Account in a suitable Brazilian bank and deposit into this account not
less than US$2.0 million equivalent; (b) deposit an additional amount of US$2.0
million equivalent by March 31, 1986; and (c) make regular deposits to the Account
to ensure the availability of sufficient funds for the project expenditures of the
forthcoming month, according to work and procurement schedules.
3.24      RFFSA would have full responsibility for documenting all project-related
expenditures appropriately, and the Project Management Unit would keep the project
accounts. It was agreed during loan negotiations that: (a) RFFSA would continue
to retain independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit its accounts,
including the project accounts, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples, and in such scope and detail as the Bank reasonably requests; (b) RFPSA
would forward the annual audit reports to the Bank not later than five months
after the end of the fiscal year; and (c) the Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
IV. UF 's F       CL         CIS
4.01      With the promulgation of the December 4, 1984 Presidential Decree,
RFFSA, probably for the first time in its history, has the opportunity to operate
as a commrcial entity, with clear corporate and financial objectives. The
Government, by giving RFFSA operational and tariff-setting freedom, and responsi-
bilities for the viability of operations and investments, expressed its commitaent
to the financial rehabilitation of the railway. The railway's financial objec-
tives, which would involve debt control, fund generation, and targeted overall
operational results, are geared to attain the same goal; the Presidential Decree
provides the appropriate framework for the achievement.
4.02      Based upon the projected traffic, and taking into account the separation
of CBTU, a financial forecast was prepared (in constant March 1985 values) for the
next five years. Forecast assumptions are shown in Annex 4. The projections
reflect the anticipated costs of future operations, including the savings result-
ing from the project investnent and from the various operational action plan.
However, in order to assess the extent of the tariff/revenue actions that are
needed, in the short run, to achieve realistic financial objectives, the projected
revenues are based upon the existing (February 1985) tariffs with some expected
adjustments to encourage unit-train traffic. The sensitivity of the forecast
performance to changes in cost and to lower-than-expected traffic has also been
tested (para. 4.09).
4.03      In the next five years, RFFSA's total operating revenue is expected to
increase, and, by 1989, it would be some 50% higher than in 1984. This increase
is entirely due to the enhanced importance of freight traffic. During the next



- 27 -
five years, RFFSA should become a predominantly freight transport compauy with
reduced reliance upon non-freight revenues and, what is more important, with
diminishing subsidy-type normalization payments. In 1989, freight would provide
851 of the total operating revenues, while normalization payments would represent
less than 121 compared to 2OZ in 1983 and 151 in 1984. In order to ensure that
RFFSA's reliance upon normalization would reduce at a practical rate and to an
acceptable level, the annual normalization payments, as a gradually reducing
percentage of the total operating revenues, are targeted to reach no more than 121
in 1989 and would be kept decreasing thereafter through closure of not commercial-
ly viable lines and services (Tables 3.1 and 4.1).  The limitation of the normal-
ization paymence would facilitate the gradual reduction of the not commercially
viable services.
4.04      Costs are also forecast to increase during the next five years, but at a
lesser rate than revenues. In 1989, the working costs are expected to be about
25Z more than in 1984. In 1989, personnel remuneration (about 15X more than in
1984) would remain the mnst important single cost item, representing about 50% of
the railway's working costs. By 1989, compared to 1984, the cost of fuel usage
would increase by about 34Z, materials by 35Z, and the cost of contract work and
other miscellaneous items by 411. These relatively modest cost increases reflect
improved productivity (Table 4.2) and are some of the expected results of the
project investment and of the various action plans to rationalize operations.
4.05      With revenues increasing faster than working expenses, the railway's
cash-generating capacity would improve. The 1989 working income is projected to
be over four times that of 1984, and the 1989 working ratio would be .76 (.87
without normalization payments), compared to .92 (1.08 without normalization) in
1984. During the next five years, the railway's internally generated surplus
would be almost equal to the value of its five years' investment program. To
maintain its cash generating capacity, RFFSA agreed, during loan negotiations, to
achieve annually reducing working ratios, with the 1989 target not exceeding .76,
taking normalization payments into account.
4.06      Although RPFSA's cash generation would improve markedly, the operating
losses would reduce only modestly because of higher depreciation charges. In the
past, depreciation costs have been understated in the absence of asset revaluation
and because of insufficient asset value indexing. By the middle of 1986, RFPSA is
expected to complete the revaluation of all its fixed assets, and, as a result,
the annual depreciation expenses would increase by some 801. By 1989, taking into
account the results of revaluation and the value of the new assets commissioned,
the annual depreciation would grow to Cr$ 1,280 billion, about twice that of
1984. As a result, the 1984 operating loss of Cr$ 433 billion is expected to
reduce to Cr$ 318 billion in 1989. Also, the overall results of RFFSA's opera-
tion, including interest costs, would be considerably better than in the previous
years. As a result of the Presidential Decree, the railway's debt obligations and
the related interest costs, after 1984, would be restricted to nev (post-1984)
borrowings, and, therefore, RFFSA's interest costs would reduce drastically, Im-
proving the overall results. The 1985 interest cost would be Cr$ 4.5 billion com-
pared to Cr$ 1,592 billion in 1984, and the 1989 interest bill (Cr$ 108 billion)
would be only about 7% that of 1984. Because of the low interest expenses, the
overall loss in 1989, Cr$ 197 billion, would be 801 lower than in 1984. The
following table summarizes RPYSA's projected income statement; details are shown
in Table 4.1.



- 28 -
RSP - Projected Inc_ Statement
(Cr$ blillion, Nmrch 1985 values)
1984 1/   1985      1986     1987      1988     1989
Freight revenue         2,216.9   2,557.8  2,859.6  3,059.9  3,265.8  3,483.8
Other revenues            120.0      145.6    144.2    143.0    141.7    140.7
Normalization             403.6      536.5    514.8    501.3    491.0    482.0
Total Operating revenue   2,740.5   3,239.9  3,518.6  3,704.2  3,898.5  4,106.5
Working Expenses           2,522.4   2,728.6  2,785.1  2,878.5  3,012.6  3,144.9
Depreciation              650.6      875.4  1,129.8  1,189.1  1,246.5  1,279.6
Total Operating Expenses  3,173.0   3,604.0  3,914.9  4,067.6  4,259.1  4,424.5
Working Income               218.1      511.3    733.5    825.6    885.9    961.6
Operating Loss              (432.5)   (364.1)  (396.3)  (363.5)  (360.6)  (318.0)
Net Non-Operating Income      27.2       20.5      19.2     20.9      21.1     21.3
Interest                   1,592.3        4.5     22.1      45.1      76.0    107.5
Annual Loss               (1,997.6)   (348.1)  (399.2)  (387.7)  (415.5)  (404.2)
Working Ratio                    .92       .84       .79      .78       .77      .76
Normalization
(as % of Operating Revenue)  14.7        16.5      14.6     13.5      12.6     11.7
I/ Pre-audit, preliminary figures.
4.07      During the next five years, RFFSA's financial position is expected to
improve. About 48% of the total investment program (including the Bank-financed
project) would be financed by funds generated from operation, 39% from borrowings,
only about 7Z from Government capital contributions and 6Z from sale of assets.
Since the Government has assumed the pre-1984 debts and would capitalize them as
the annual debt payments become due, the railway's long-term debt obligation would
reduce from Cr$ 16,348 billion in 1984 to Cr$ 6,700 billion in 1989, and the debt/
equity ratios would gradually improve from 56/44 in 1984 to 13/87 in 1989. How-
ever, RFFSA will have to maintain substantial, although reducing, short-term bor-
rowings (or bank overdraft) until about 1993. Because of the substantial fund
requirements during the next five years, RFFSA's management should monitor the
utilization of its financial resources closely. To maintain a sound financial
position and, particularly, to ensure that borrowings would not lead, as in the
past, to unmanageable debt obligations, RFFSA.confirmed, during loan negotiations,
that: (a) during project implementation, in consultation with the Bank, it would
develop, each year by October 1, annual projected fund flow plans, taking into
account the next year's forecast operating and financial results, to establish the
level of borrowing that would be necessary to finance the next year's investments;
the annual borrowings, excluding the funds borrowed from the Bank for the
project's implementation, should not exceed 65% in 1985, 50% in 1986, and 30%
thereafter of the projected annual internal fund generations; and (b) after 1985,
it would collect its receivables and settle its trade accounts within 45 days on
the average. KFFSA's 1985-1989 projected Fund Flow Statements and Balance Sheets
are shown in Tables 4.3 to 4.5.



- 29 -
4.08      Although the overall financial results, even without further real tariff
adjustments, are expected to be considerably better than in the past, RFFSA would
not be able to turn its overall losses to profits without additional tariff
adjustments (or equivalent cost savings). It is estimated that a 12% increase in
freight revenues (or equivalent cost savings) would enable RFFSA to completely
eliminate its 1989 overall loss. However, since the tariff increases (10% effec-
tive February 1985) that the railway's customers would have to absorb are substan-
tial, it would not be reasonable to expect additional tariff adjustments to
achieve financial break-even during the project's implementation, prior to 1989.
Also, the cost saving impacts of the next five years' investments and action plans
would be only partial before 1989. For these reasons, the earliest reasonable
target date for financial break-even would be 1993, giving RFFSA three full years
to implement further tariff increases if the project-investment, short-term tariff
and marketing actions and action-plans-induced cost savings would not be suffi-
cient to achieve an earlier break-even. During loan negotiations, RFFSA confirmed
that it would introduce all the necessary tariff and/or operational cost saving
actions to ensure that, by the end of 1992, the total operating revenues (inclu-
ding normalization payments within the stipulated limits) would cover all the
costs, including depreciation (based on the asset revaluation) and interest.
4.09      The sensitivity of RFFSA's financial performance to higher working
costs, to increases in project costs, and to lower-than-expected traffic has been
tested. Since RFFSA is expected to adjust charges to maintain its financial tar-
gets, the results are expressed as tariff increases that may be necessary to off-
set adverse impacts upon finances. For example, if, in 1989, working costs were
15% higher than forecast, then 11% additional revenue would be necessary to
achieve break-even. Similarly, with 15% lower-than-expected freight traffic and
no increased costs, the additional revenues would have to be 12%. A 15% increase
in the project capital cost would require an additional revenue of about 3%.
V. ECOUChEIC JWALUAION
A.   General
5.01      The Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and the Parana corridor projects form
part of a broader program for the rehabilitation of RFFSA's meter-gauge network.
In 1982-1983, RFFSA, with assistance from GEIPOT, carried out a comprehensive
inventory of track and other facilities on the entire network, identifying defi-
ciencies and possible remedial actions. The identified rehabilitation works and
improvements were then screened, through cost-benefit analyses, in order to estab-
lish networkwide priorities. This planning effort led to the design of the two
corridor projects, which were found to be of the highest priority, as well as to
the other rehabilitation projects which are included in RFFSA's investment plan
for 1985-1989. Detailed feasibility studies, including appropriate economic
evaluation, were prepared in 1984.
5.02      The investments included in the two projects are aimed at increasing the
efficiency of mutltimodal-railway based-transport services in the two corridors.
Specific objectives are to increase train operating speeds, particularly by remov-
ing existing speed restrictions due to present track condition; to improve train
formations and crossings, rationalize train operations and improve rolliug stock



- 30 -
productivity by consolidating intermodal transfer into fewer, more efficient
terminals, operating more unit-through-trains and developing intermodal transport;
to reduce operational delays and increase capacity on sections currently operated
at, or close to, capacity; and to reduce operational delays and emergency mainte-
nance requirements through improving the condition of infrastructure and track.
These objectives (and the related economic benefits) would not be achieved through
one specific type of investment, but through a mix of investments which includes
infrastructure and track rehabilitation, an improved system of sidings for train
crossings, improved signaling and telecommunications on high traffic density sec-
tions, and improved terminals and yards. Conversely, each specific type of in-
vestment would contribute, in varying degrees, to several of these objectives.
The evaluation of the two corridor projects, therefore, focuses upon project in-
vestments globally, and upon particular items whenever possible.
5.03      The policy and institutional development component of the project has
been designed to support the full implementation of necessary measures to gradu-
ally turn RFFSA into a commercially viable freight carrier. The justification of
the various action plans, which together represent less than 2X of the project
cost, was not quantified; qualitative justification is discussed in Chapter II.
S. Traffic
5.04      The major commodity flows in the corridor of Parana are grains and grain
products, in particular soya, corn and wheat produced primarily in North and West
Parana and in Mato Grosso do Sul, and shipped to the area of Ponta Grossa for pro-
cessing or to the port of Paranagua for export or shipment to other regions in
Brazil; and soya pellets produced mainly in Ponta Grossa and in North Parana and
shipped to Paranagua for export. In 1983, RFFSA transported about 2.5 million
tons of soya pellets in the corridor, which represented about half of the total
transport demand for this product; the remaining demand was met by the trucking
industry. RFFSA also met a substantial share of the demand for transport of wheat
and maize. Its participation in the transport of soya grains has remained margin-
al, the main reason being the poor efficiency of the railway resulting from the
condition of the track and from the lack of appropriate silo facilities upcountry.
RFFSA intends, with the project, to maintain, at about 50X, its participation in
the pellet market, which is expected to grow at about 5.6Z p.a. (in tons) until
1990, and at about 2.91 p.a. thereafter; it also intends to maintain its current
share in the transport of wheat and maize. The proposed investments would enable
RNFSA to participate in the transport market of soya grain from North and West
Parana, and from Mato Grosso do Sul to Ponta Grossa, which exceeded 3 million tons
in 1984. Petroleum products, alcohor, coal, cement and sugar are other important
commodity flows in the corridor, with good development prospects. The demand for
transport in the corridor and RPFSA's marketing plans and traffic forecasts are
discussed in Annex 2.
5.05      The main commodity flows in the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor are:
(a) petroleum products and alcohol, distributed in the region mainly by rail, from
an oil refinery near Belo Horizonte and from the main alcohol-producing centeLs in
the State of Sao Paulo; (b) iron ore, which is mined in Southern Minas Gerais and
which, in addition to the large shipments on EFVI's line for export through
Vitoria and for supplying the major steel plants in Minas Gerais and Tubarso, is
supplied, mainly by road, to a number of smaller steel plants around Belo fori-
zonte, and to pig iron producers in the area of Sete Lagoas, in North Minas



- 31 -
Gerais; (c) other industrial inputs such as limestone from the Sete Lagoas area
which is supplied to the major steel plants, charcoal produced in North Minas
Gerais, and coal mined in the southern region and shipped through Vitoria mainly
to supply the cement industry in the corridor; (d) steel products, pig iron and
cement distributed in the corridor and shipped for export or to other regions of
Brazil through the ports of Vitoria and/or Rio de Janeiro; and (e) phosphates
mined in the eastern area of Uberaba, in the corridor, and partly shipped through
Vitoria to chemical plants in other regions. Wheat imported through Vitoria and
carried by rail to Brasilia and Goias has been, until recently, the only substan-
tial grain flow. The extensive agricultural development currently taking place in
the cerrados of Goias and Minas Gerais has been generating increasing shipments of
maize and soya, mainly to the Sao Paulo area for processlng, and, more recently,
for export through Vitoria. The prospects of the transport demand in the corridor
and of RFFSA's participation are discussed in Annex 2.
Co   Benefits
5.06      The sajor economic benefits which are expected from the proposed invest-
ments, and which have been quantified, are: (a) savings in train operating (and
capital) costs, which would derive essentially from increased train operating
speeds, in some sections from shorter crossing waiting times, and from improved
train formations; (b) savings in terminal and intermediate yard costs through
improved cargo transfer operations and increased utilization of unit-through-
trains; (c) reduction in track maintenance costs, Including avoidance of deferred
track maintenance and of continued track deterioration due to poor infrastructure
cendition, and through increased mechanization of maintenance; and (d) avoidance
of additional road transport (including truck operating and capital costs, and
road costs) for traffic which, in the "without' project case, would be carried by
truck as a result of limited capacity of the railway or of comparative advantage
of road transport. Benefits from reduced wear, maintenance of locomotives and
rolling stock, from other-than-transport components of the distribution costs, and
from increased safety were not quantified.
5.07      In the Parana corridor, the proposed investments are expected to gener-
ate the following benefits. Average train operating (and capital) costs in the
corridor would be reduced, by 1990, from an estimated US cents 2.0 per net ton-km
without project to about US cents 1.7 with the project; major savings would be
made on wagon and locomotive capital costs, and minor savings on diesel oil and
crew costs. Average railway terminal operating costs in the corridor (including
related rolling stock and locomotives capital costs) would be reduced from US$2.0
to about US$1.7 per ton. Additional road transport costs In the `without' project
case were estimated at an average US cents 3.0 per ton-km, which includes an aver-
age US cents 2.6 for trucking costs, and US cents 0.4 for road costs. The net
present value of the benefits from the proposecd investments Is estimated at about
US$114 million equivalent, under base cost and traffic assumptions and for a dis-
count rate of 12X; their internal rate of return is 24% (Annex 5).
5.08      In the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor, average train operating (and
capital) costs would be reduced, from an estimated US cents 2.4 per net ton-km to
about US cents 2.2 with the project. The average railway terminl operating cost
would be reduced from about US$1.5 to about US$1.2 per ton loaded or unloaded.
Additional road transport costs were estimated at an average US cents 3.2 per ton-



- 32 -
km. The net present value of the benefits from the proposed investments is esti-
mated at about US$48 million equivalent, under base cost and traffic assumptions
and for a discount rate of 12%; their internal rate of return is 18% (Annex 5).
5.09      The proposed investments in signaling and telecommunications, which are
described In Annex 3, have also been evaluated separately. The economic benefits
expected from the signaling system, to which a portion (about 30% in cost terms)
of the telecommunications investments was added for the purpose of the evaluation,
include reductions of train operating (and capital) costs on the controlled sec-
tion resulting from reduced delays for train crossing, savings in staff at cross-
ing stations, and benefits from increased line capacity, since, without the pro-
posed investment, an increasing traffic would be diverted to the road. In the
Parana corridor, the proposed signaling system for the Uvaranas-Paranagua section
has an estimated internal rate of return of 35%; in the Goias-Minas Gerais corri-
dor, the proposed signaling system for the Sete Lagoas-Costa Lacerda section has
an estimated internal rate of return of 24% (Annex 5).
5.10      The economic benefits expected from the proposed microwave telecommuni-
cations systems, apart from their contribution to the operation of the signaling
systems, are mainly reductions in the train operating and capital costs which
would result from avoidance of traffic interruptions due to communication inter-
ruptions, from faster assistance to immobilized trains, and from improved manage-
ment of wagons in yards. The proposed telecommunications systems for the Parana
and Goias-Minas Gerais corridors have estimated internal rates of return of 33%
and 17% respectively (Annex 5). RFFSA would also save an amount of about US$2
million annually on telephone and data communication charges from the public net-
work.
D.   Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      Although the traffic forecast upon which the economic evaluation is
based represents a best estimate under present economic prospects, actual traffic
could be lower if the economic recovery in Brazil and/or the international demand
for Brazilian exports are below current expectations. Assuming that the demand
for transport remains, during the period of analysis, 20% below the forecast, the
Parana corridor project would have a rate of return of 21%, and the Goiao-linas
Gerais corridor project 16%. Although project cost estimates are based upon
detailed engineering designs, unexpected delays in project execution or changes in
factor prices might lead to higher costs.  If, in addition to the 20X lower-than-
expected traffic, investment costs were 15%, and maintenance costs 20% higher, the
Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais corridor projects would still have attractive rates
of return, 172 and 13X respectively (Annex 5). The project, which essentially
includes the rehabilitation or improvement of existing facilities, would not have
any adverse impact upon the environment.



- 33 -
vi.          RSACHE  AM  - s              SD_1011
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with RFFSA and the
Government on the following:
(a) arrangements related to CBTU's separation from RFFSA to be com-
pleted by the end of 1985, and RFFSA not to make payments or
transfer revenues to CBTU unless provided for under these arrange-
ments (para. 2.02);
(b)  RFFSA to implement:  (i) a program of closure of not commercially
viable lines and services from mid-1985 to mid-1986; (ii) a program
for rationalizing operations in the Northeast and each year reduce
the region's operating cost by at least 2.5%; and (iii) a station
closure program initially in the Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais
corridors, to be extended subsequently to the entire network
(para. 3.06);
(c) (i) RFFSA and the Government to establish and maintain administra-
tive mechanisms for the closure of not commercially viable lines
and services and for incentive-based normalization payments;
(ii) annual normalization not to exceed stipulated levels; and
(iii) the Government to guarantee minimum normalization payments in
1985 and 1986 (para. 3.07);
(d) KFFSA to: (i) recover working costs for wheat, soya, corn, fertil-
izers and cement by the end of 1985; (ii) recover working and
administrative costs plus depreciation and interest on rolling
stock for its 13 most important products by the end of 1986;
(iii) upgrade its cost accounting by the end of 1986; and
(iv) introduce a new tariff structure by the beginning of 1988
(para. 3.09);
(e)  KFFSA to:  (i) prepare an operations managea'nt master plan, pre-
sent it to the Bank for comments by the end or 1985, and implement
it thereafter; and (ii) implement a locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance action program and a track maintenance action program
(para. 3.10);
(f) KIFSA to: (i) implement a planning and management development
action plan, including a management training ,rogram; (ii) regu-
larly update its rolling investment plan through evaluation
methods and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (ili) refrain from
undertaking any investment unless it is justified according to the
agreed methods and criteria; and (iv) exchange views with the Bank
on its investment and financing plans (paras. 3.11 and 3.12);
(g) the Government, through Mr, to undertake a transport coordination
action program for the Southeast corridors (para. 3.13);
(h) appropriate organization and staff, satisfactory to the Bank, for
project implementation, outline terms of reference for the action
programs, and reporting requirements (para. 3.16);



-34
(i)  RFFSA's operational and financial targets (para. 3.17);
(j) project financing plan and the Governuent ' guarantee regarding
the counterpart funds (para. 3.19);
(k) procuremnt procedures and guideli.2es (para. 3.20);
(1) disbursement procedures (paras. 3.21 and 3.22):
(a) RPMS  to maintain a Project Revolving Fund Account with an initial
deposit of US$2.0 uillion and an additional deposit of US$2.0
million equivalent by the end of March 1986 (para. 3.23);
(n)  auditing arrangements (para. 3.24);
(o) RFFSA. to achieve annually reducing working ratios (para. 4.05);
(p) MFFS&'s annual borrowings not to exceed targeted levels, collection
of receivables not to exceed 45 days, and trade accounts to be paid
In 45 days on the average (para. 4.07); and
(q) RFISA to aim to recover, by the end of 1992, all the costs,
including depreciation and interest, from operating revenues
(para. 4.08).
6.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be:
(a) RPFSA. to put the organization plan and staffing plan for project
implementation into effect (para. 3.16); and
(b) RFFSA to establish a Project Revolving Fund Account and deposit
US$2.0 million equivalent into it (para. 3.23).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of USS200 million. The terms would he 15 years with a three-year grace
period.
May 7, 1985



- 35 -
TABI. 1.1
..A.IL
FEDUALRAnLUW - IORT CORRIDOR - MOJTCT
Federal Inweatmoets in tbe Trausport Sector, 1973-1984
a. in current Cr4 biios
Year    Highways   Railways    Ports   Shippi,g and   Others    Total
Shipbuilding
1976       6.3       11.5         1.5         4.5          4.3       28.1
1977       8.4       11.4         1.7         5.8          4.2       31.5
1978       9.2       13.0         3.5         8.4          5.9       40.0
1979      20.1       17.6         5.5        13.3          6.1       72.6
1980      33.6       43.7         9.0        29.9          7.5      123.7
1981      63.9       77.0        13.7        59.9         17.7      232.2
1982     109.4      124.8        60.4       100.5         63.2      458.3
1983     228.6      335.4        93.9       261.2        174.6    1,093.7
1984 1/  627.5      520.8       186.8     1,203.5        552.6    3,901.2
b.  In Decoubher 1984 Cr$ bIllioU 2/
Year    Highways   Railways    Ports   Shipping and   Others    Total
Shipbuilding
1976     2,099      3,832         500       1,500        1,433      9,364
1977     1,962      2,662         397       1,355          981      7,357
1978     1,549      2,189         589       1,415          993      6,735
1979     2,199      3,019         602       1,455          667      7,942
1980     1,836      2,387         492       1,634          410      6,759
1981     1,663      2,004         357       1,559          461      6,044
1982     1,457      1,662         804       1,338          842      6,103
1983     1,196      1,755         491       1,367          914      5,723
1984 1/  1,024        850         305       1,964          902      5,045
1/ Preliminary figures.
2/ Adjusted on the basis of the General Price Index (IGP).
Source: Ministry of Transport
April 1985



36 -                           TABLE 1.2
1mumZR
P L IANYm   XoLTCRO Q         -B
PetrmlbR hut Aointive Yuel8: Price Structure and idjustmut
a.  Price Structure as of MNrch 1985 1/
(in US$ per liter)2/      -
Gasoline "A' 3/        Diesel-Oil
Ex-Refinery Price (realization)                   33.3                28.8
Distribution Charges & Retailer's Margins         14.0                 3.6
Taxes                                              5.1                 4.1
Retail Price                                      52.4                36.5
Retail Price (Net of Distribution Charges
and Retailer"s Margins)                      38.4                 32.9
International Price (c.i.f. Santos) 4/           22.5 5/              22.2
b.  Aer   Consumer Price Index Over Genral priee index (DI)
Year             Gasoline              Diesel Oil
1973                 .47                   .65
1974                 .72                   .70
1975                 .87                   .78
1976                1.02                   .82
1977                1.04                   .93
1978                 .98                   .90
1979                1.00                  1.00
1980                1.42                  1.03
1981                1.40                  1.22
1982                1.24                  1.22
1983                1.15                  1.24
1984                1.10                  1.13
1/  Prices for the mouth of March 1985.
2/ Weighted average exchange rate for the period: US$1 - Cr$4,162.
31 73 RON gasoline, retailed in a blend of up to 20Z of anydrous biomass
alcohol (RON - Research Octane Number).
4/ As of the Third Quarter of 1984.
5/ 95 RON gasoline.
Source: Ministry of Transport and mission estimates
May 1985



EAIL
rUoom       UAIWA   - Kg"=  CouI        - lWJaw T
IU#'sa PIat a"d ProJected Traffic, 19G0-M990
so   Ia  illoa teas
Averi     Ainu!l  Increases (Z)
Cnm_dity                          1970    1975   1960    1983   1964           1985   1986    1987   1986    1969    1990   1975- A0  197"44              x(4X)
Petroleum Producta                 2.7     3.6     6.6      6.2    6.6          7.1     7.1     7.6     7.9    8.2       8.6       12.9       7.3          3.9
Alcohol                            0.0    0.0    0.1        0.7     1.0         1.1     1.2     1,3      1.4     1.5     1.6       -          -            8.5
Coal                               4.0     5.0      7.9    10.2    10.4        11.1    11.9    12.7    13.6   1I'6    15.6         9.6        r.5          7.0
Iron Ore Export                    0.0    9.1    14.2    9.0    12,4           12.9    11.5    14.0    14.6    15.2    15.9        8.8        3.2          4.2
Iron Ore Other                     7.7     7.6     7.2      7.9    8.0         8.1       .f.    8.9     9.2     9.5      9.6      -1.1        0.6          1.5
Lt eetone                          1.0     1.1      I.9     3.7    4.3          4.6     4.9     5.3     5.6    6.0       6.4      24.6       14,2          6,9
Steel Products                     1.1     1.9     5.5    8.1       6.0         8.4     r.6     9.2     9.7    10.1    10.6       21.7       17.1          4.R
Cemnt                              2.2     3.0      1.6     1.6    4.1          4.3    4.6      4.9     5.1      5.4     5.1        1.7       1.5          5,.
Pellets (soys)                     0.7     1.6     1.0      4.1    4.3          4.7     5.1     5.6    6.2      6.7      7.4      13.4       11.6          9.4
Soya (been.)                       0.4     1.0      1.7     1,7     1.9         2,1     2.1    2.6      2.9      1.2     3.5      11.2        7.4         10.8
Corn                               1.2    0.2    0.7        1.2    0.1          0.7     1.0     1.2      1.4     1.7     1.0      28.5        4.6          7,0
Wheat                              1.2      1.8     2.6     2.1     2.3         2.4     2.5     2.6      2.1     2,8     2.9        7.6       2.8          4.2
Fertiliter                         0.6     1.1      3.4     2.7     3.5         3.7     4.0     4.1    4.6    4.9        5.2      25.1       11.7          6.6
Other                              9.6     6.6    10.1      6.5    10.0        50.5   10.9    11.4    12.0    12.5   13.1           2.8       1.4          4.6
TOTAL                 12.6   46.2   70.5   69.1   77.3             81.9   ^6.1    91.6   96.8  102.4  10R.2             8.8       5.9          S.8
b.  l. billie  toa-AI
A a ao Annual Increases tX)
Commodity                         1970    197$   1980    1981    1984 I/    1965   1986    1987   1986   1989   1990   l975-R0   1975-84-1984-90
Petroleum Products                 0.8      1.1     3.6     3.4     3.8         4.0    4.2    4.4       4.6    4.n       5.0      22.6       12.6          4.5
Alcohol                            0.0    0.0    0.1        0.6    0.6          0.9     1.0      1.0     1.1     1.2     1.3       -          -            9.0
Coal                               0.4    0.5       1.0     1.13    1.4         I5.     1.6     1.7      1.9     2.0     2.2       14.9      12.1          7.S
Iron Ore Export                    0.0    6.0    9.0        5.6     8.0       86.       Al7    9.1    9.5    9.9    10.3           8.4        3.2          4.1
Icon Ore Other                     4.0     3.8    4.6      4.1    4.4          4.6      4.7     4.9     5.1     5.3    5.4         3.9        1.6          3.6
Limestone                          0.3    0.4       1.0    0.9    0.9           1.0    150      1.1     I.Z      1.3     1.4      20.5        q.4          7.2
Steel Products                     0.5     0.6     2.1      2.5     2.6         3.0     3.1     3.1    3.S       3.6     3.6      28.S       56.7          5.4
Cement                             1.1      1.6     2.5     2.4     2.8         3.0     3,1     3.1      3.5     3.7    4.0        9.3        6.4          6.0
Pellets (Soya)                     0.5    0.7       1.0     1.3     1.5         1.6     1.8    2.0      2.2      2.4     2.6       7.4        6.11         9.6
Soys (Beans)                       0.3     0.7      1.1     1.1     1.1         1.4     1.6     5.6     2.0      2.2     2.5       9.5        7.1        1I.5
Corn                               0.4     0.1    0.4    0.6        0.2         0.5    0.7      0.9      1.0     1.2     1.4      12.0        6.0          1.4
Wheat                              O.S    0.1       l.0    0.9      1.2         1.1     1.3      1.4     1.4     1.5     1.6        7.4       6.2          4.5
F.rtillger                         0.3    0.5       1.2    0.9      1.2         1.1     1.4     1.5     1.6      1.7     118      19.1       10.2          7.2
Other                              3.0     2.8    4.6       3.4     3.5         3.7     3.9    4.1      4.1    4.6    4.6         10.4        2.S          5.S
TOTAL                 12.1   19.7    33.2    29.6    33.8          36.0   38.2   40.5   42.9   45.5   40.1             11.0       6.2          6.1
1/  Preliminary estimates.
Source:  NFFSA and ioinon gstimatem.
Harch 1985



- 38 -
TABLE 2.2
BRAZIL
FEDEARL RAILWAY - E R1MRT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
Summary of RFFSAs Costs and Tariffs and Truck Tariffs, 1984 1t 2/
(in September 1984 Cr$Iton-ku)
Marginal Cost        Working   Total       Tariff
Short Term   Medium Term    Cost    Cost    Rail   Truck
Petroleum Products      19.1          33.6       47.2     64.2    53.3    70.3  3/
Alcohol                 19.1          33.6       47.2     64.2    44.2    70.3  3/
Coal                    14.7          34.1       36.3     50.1    64.8   131.2
Iron Ore 4/              8.5          20.0      22.2      28.5    21.5    51.5  3/
Iron Ore                 9.2          21.6      22.9      31.3    28.0    46.2
Linestone               17.0          33.5       40.7     55.9    43.5    87.9
Steel Products          18.4          29.8       35.2     48.8    39.5    96.5
Cement                  14.9          29.8       35.9     49.6    28.8    48.6
Pellets                 15.9          36.3      35.5      49.7    37.4    61.8
Soya                    18.7          41.0      44.7      62.7    33.0    81.3
Corn                    18.7          41.0      44.7      62.7    33.0    81.3
Wheat                   17.5          32.1       38.1     52.3    37.1    67.2
Fertilizer              17.3          31.5       35.1     49.0    26.2    83.4
1/  Short term marginal cost is the variable portion of working (cash) costs;
-   medium ternm marginal cost includes short term marginal costs, appropriate
administrative cost plus depreciation on rolling stock; working cost is the
total cash costs excluding depreciation; total cost includes depreciation and
(notional) interest cost.
2/  Cost estimates are based on 1984 freight traffic and 1984 projected costs;
truck tariffs are September 1984 published rates.
3/ Theoretical only.
4/ NBR contract.
Source: R.FlSA and mission estimates.
March 1985



- 39 -
UAUL.
OMi LAXWAY  Z-FO  CRIf - FWJUCT
311lsM Operation Stattat1ca, 1979-1983
1979          1980           1981           1952        1983
Total Route (ko)
0.76 a                                      202            202            202            202          13
Metric                                   21,914         21,592         21.188         21,068      21,212
Broad                                     1.781          1 797          1,781          1 817      158
Total                                    23,897         23,591         23.l71         23,087      23,no
Total Staff (000)                           94,959         89,420         88,325         84,632      82.952
Traffle
Passenger - numbers (000)
Suburban                              321,940        356,065        368,982        381,591    615,737
Interior                               13.998         13.799         14,542         14,323     12.819
Paseqger - km (million)
Suburban                                7,135          7,893          8,296          8,795      9.607
Interior                                1,611          1,567          1,722          1,591      1.426
Freigt
Tons (000)                             60,921         70,760         67,856         69,828     69.7J4
Tos-km (million)                       27.689         33,260         31,087         31,687     29,633
TraLink (000)
Passener-suburban                        13,895         14,401         15,175         15.697      16.015
Passenger-interior                        9,273          8,842          8,303          8,394      '.OSI
Mimed                                     2.898          2,827          2,516          2,366       1,401
Freight                                  31,298         33.961         32,622         31,689     28.709
Diesel                                 29,969         32,546         31,284         30,431     27.558
Electrlc                                  659            677            609            566         533
Steam                                     670            738            729            692         617
Service                                   3728           3,322          3,008          2,961
TOTAL Train-km               61,T232        63353          61,623         61,29       56i
Total locomotive-km (000)
Diesel                                   79,313         83,036         79,168       78,301        73.506
Electric                                  2,521          2,808          2,773        2.543        2.145
Stea"                                       999          1,150          1,103        1,082           861
Carros motores                           30.603         30,523         30,045       31,923       33.375
Automotrizes                                509            499            471          4 6           252
TOTAL                     113,94$        118,016        113,560      114,317       11D,j
m__
Freight (revenue-earning) Wagon-K (tdillion)
Loaded                                    536.4          606.4          585.4        590.8        542.5
Empty                                     426.2          491.3          447.5        453.3        426.9
TOTAL                         l2.i6         1.OS7.7        L5.. 1,04.1 
-                               -
of which] railway wagons                     830.6          969.3          918.5        889.8         834.0
I private wagons                     132.0          128.4         114.4        154.3         135.4
(ContinUed)



- 40 -
TAMlE 2.3
Page  of 2
nIDIL EAUIAT - WAIT CWRDUO  - FEWU
UPPIA's Operatt StkteLatica. 1979-1983
1979          1930          1981          1982       1983
Gros. TralLing Ton-Km (mllilon)
Passenger                               7,700         7,911         8,067       8,428        8,378
Freight. revenue-.arning               46.668        54,535        50,286      52,396       49.954
SarvIce                                 1299          1 139         0 941       0.949         1.OIS
TOTAL                                                   11J3V5,       77r        59f34J
Grcoo Ton-Km (Includtng iloco) - (billion)
Pameanger                               8,885         9.509         9.171       9,410        9.230
Freight, revenue-earning               54.242        65.190        57,314      55.739       52,862
Service                                 1 494         1.596         1 249       1 247         1 303
TOTAL                       6Tr           76.295
Locomotives in Stock
DleseL                                  1,487         1.511         1.536        1.594        1,628
Electric                                   65            82            81          58            53
Stes                                       44            45            43          40           40
-Motor cars                               432           426           460         502           516
Autootive                                  26            26            26          27            24
TOTAL                                      !UT           2.146       2flT
Freight Wagon mnd Train Performance
Percentage Loaded to total wagon-km      55.7          55.6          56.9        55.2          56.1
No. wagon Loaded                       42,242        43,662        43,479      42,53B       43.051
lagon-days in use (000)
RaLlvay-owned wagons               14.351.8      14,867.2      14,777.0    14,367.8      14,431.4
Prlvate wagons                      1 066.5       1 069.4       1 092.8     1 158 5       1 282.2
TOTAL                     15,418.3      15,36.        1%869.8   15S,526:3       15T.713.6
Average Wagon Loed (tons)                   57.7          54.0          51.9         50.6         55.0
No. of Wagons Loaded                   1,055,641     1,315,242     1,277,891   1,520,312    1,466,986
Wagon-km per  egaons-Dy in Use              62.4.         66.9          65.1         67.2         b1.7
Not ton-km per Wagon-Day In Use
InclusLve 14BR                            1,796         2,087         1.959   2,040.9       1,885.8
Exclusive KRI                             1,432         1,581          1,544   1,609.1      1,557.0
Wagon Turnaround (days)
Inclusive MBR                            13.1          12.4          IZ.         12.2         14.6
Exclusive NOR                            13.5          13.0          12.8         12.6         15.4
Wagon-km between Turnaround                  816           651          8am           822          758
Average No. of Wagons per Freight Train
1oaded                                 16.1          16.9          17.1        17.3          18.3
Empty                                  12.8          13.7          13.0        14.1          14.4
TOTAL                         2M            I3.           30.1        31.4         32.7
Source: RFPSA
March 1985



BRAZIL
FIOBRAL RAILVAT - WILT CORRIDOR - PRWECT
RfSA'. Diesel Native Power, 1984
TIAN   56.   St    55    56  51        5I    59    14    it    Ia    43    66    65    66    61    W          69    N      It    It    15      t     I 16 15 6     7    Ni       n  Of               63  1 151141
16171       6     531
U Ill                                                                                        64    5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 it
Al                                                                                                                                  696                  
515                            ~~~~~~~~~19                                                                                                                                                               19
gits                                                          is                                                                                                                                                   6
612                                 Is    36    36    36    is    I I    isU
Ins0                                                                                                                          59    If    55    It                                                                 izi
652(5                                                                                                                       I         a                                                                            It3
621(3                                                                                                                                              i     I      I3
1os6                                                                25      i6
ISIS.?                                                                                                                                                                                  36                         36
iisle              of    S    Is     36     I Is   I lit     is   71 its     6s    6      5     9           67     5      I     I    79   In9    IS   135    S    16 61             S     S 13        3      65          VW
Source: RFFSA
March 1985



UUAZIL
FEDIAL RAIWNAT - 511  a_lAtE - FR.Jf
Esthates of LUfe Cycle  ato for bInufactured ve. EU  Locomotive
-(i Ul  'Tom eqIvalmt)
--------------- ----- Remanufacture I/                              -Purchase N-------------------
Discounted 3/                                               Discounte 3d
Year   Remnufacture    Fuel                   Avait-    Equivalent        Purchase    Fuel                  Avalt-   Equivalent
& Maintenance   Saving  j   Tot4l   ability          Cost          * Kaint.   Saving 3    Total   abillty  Coat.
1            480.0        -         480.0      0.84       4,571.4         1,000.0       -        1,000.0    0.86       1,142.8
2              27.3       IS          12.3     0.84           13.1            24.9     20             4.9    0.86          5.1
3              27.8       15          12.6     0.83           12.2            25.4     20             5.4    0.85          5.0
4              28.3       IS          i3.3     0.83           11.4            25.9      20            5.9    0.85          4.9
5              26.7       is          13.7     0.82           10.6            26.3     20            6.3    0.84.          4.8
6              29.2       15          14.2     0.82            9.8            26.8      20            6.8    0.84          4.6            '
7              29.7       15          14.7     0.81           9.1             27.3     20             7.3    0.83          4.4 *
a              30.2       15          1S.2     0.81            8.5            27.6     20             7.8    0.83          4.3
9              30.7       15          15.7     0.80           7.8             28.3     20             8.3    0.82          4.0
1t             31.1      IS          16.1      0.80           7.3            2867      20            6.7    0.82           3.6
11             31.6       IS          16.6     0.79           6,7             29,2     20            9.2    0.81           3.6
12             32.1      IS          17.1      0.79           6,2             29.7     20            9.7    0.81           3.5
13             32.6       is          17.6     0.76           5.8             30.2     20           10.2    0.80           3.2
Residual
value    (150.0)                                         (34.4)         (650.0)                                      (114.6)
Total                                                       645.5                                                        949.4
1/ Average costs, as of December 1984, for a G12 model.
/  As . .pared to non-remanufactured locomotive.
3 At a 12Z dLsacount rate.
Source:  RFFSA and mission estimates.
March 1985                                                                                                                                I



EMIL
I1AL 3*1111* -IliUf                 - l  - 
umary of OU'S KOtel We_e1m  _i                 rts. 135196
1960     1981      1962      1983     1984       1985       1966      1987       19U        1989
A.  lotal Freight Traffic (billion ton-km)          31.3     31.1      31.7     29.6      33.8       36.0      36.2       40.5       42.9       45.5
*. Total Diesel Freight Traffic (billton
too-km)                                    32.5     30.1      30.9      28.9     32.1       35.1       37.2      39.5       41.9       44.5
C, Average Train Load (tons)                        640       696       925      678       969        967       992      1,065      1,113      1,144
D,  Total train-gm, Diw.l (million ki)             36.6      33.6      33.*4    32.9      31.1       36.1      37.5       31.1       37.6       36.9
a.  Average No. of  Kcoo per Train                  1.60     1.73      1.67     1.66      1.67       1.65       1.70      1.77       1.60       1.14
*F  Total Loco-Km (million ki)                     61.9      56.S      55.6     54.6      56.1       60.0      63.8       65.7       67.7       71.4
0,  Ne. of Freight tao.e                             979      978    1,034    1,0I0    1,060        1,096      1,094     1,092      1,090      1,067
N.  Average Annual Mileage ('000 ke p.e.)          61.2      59.6      54.0     50.7      S2.1       54.6       56.4      60.2       62.1       65.7
1.  Faoductlvity (mlllon rt too-km p.a.)          33.2      31.0     29.9      26.6      30.3      32.0       34.0       36.1       36.4      40.9
J.  Aval1ability (3 of time)                       0.82      0.76      0.77     0.10      0.10       0.81      0.62       0.63       0.64       O.6S
K.  Utili"tioe of Availabli{ty (2) !/              0.65      0.57      0.57     0.60      0.60       0.61      0.62       0.63       0.64       0.65
L.  lb. of Loces to be Retired                                                                         24         26         a        .20          6
t   of uhich   Freilght                                                                                 1          2         2          2          3
5b1tch                                                                                 23        24          6         16          3
tl,  No. of tocem to be Transferred to Switch                                                          23         24          6         16         3
,  Neo. of totcs to be Purchased                                                                       23         24         6         is          3
0.  Fr""esr Iomes                                    106      [Os       102        62       s0         60         30         76        73         73
r,  Other Locomti,es:                                424      453       458       466       8 8/      32         362       332        32         162
of which$  Service Tralns                                                              170        164       164        164        164       164
Sete ih                                                                    216        218       218        216        216       216
Q. Totol INdor of Ioos                             I,SII    1,536    1,594    1,628    1,627        1,556      1,552     3,546      1,543      3.516
11/   VUlA changed the definition of utilization from 1981 to improve central of fuel consumption.
/   79 loce  were tresfrtred to CM  in 1914.
ree  M1AU sttatitic$ and planning Departmets, and mission  etii"tm.
March 1965



IRAZIL
-EDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
RFFSA's Rolling Stock, 1984
TYPE              FLAT               CONDOLA            BOX             CATTLE            TANK            HOPPER          OTHER            TOTAL
.EV'f   N.R           REV   N. REV   REV   N. RV   REV   N. EV   REV   N. REV   REV   N. R                 _EV   N.MV   REV   N.V
YEAR
PRE 1950         554          623      803       551  1,611    1,111   364                210        37      2        90   139          3  3,683  2,415
1950          6                      4                              174                7                                                 131       0
1951         46             5        1         1      15        2                      If         3                      7                80      II
1952                                          14      32             23                6         2                       -                61      16
1953                                 2                          1                      6                                 1                 9       1
1954                        2     389          1    213             418                9                                 7               666       3
1955         54            47      297             1,431       15   143                 3                                          1  1,92A       63
1956         13             6     443          1    258              65                           1             115      4               783    123
1957        181           124     450        178    428       114     4                4          1    11                3             1,081    417
1958         58             2       70         6    212             110                                                                  450       8
1959         27             5                 36    128         1                                                                        155      42
1960         11                                                                                   1                      4                is.      1
1961         14                                       84        3                                                        1                99       3
1962                               296         4                4                                 3                      2               298      11
1963                                23        36    173              51          8               11                      6               253      55
1964          5             1     412                532        6                      5                                          53    954       60      *-
1965         24                    218        10    153                                           3                                      395      13      4
1966          8                   204                                                                                    5         4    217        4
1967         35            44       95               328        3                      7                                 4        48    469       95
1968        126             1       38               70         2                                       1                          1    235        4
1969          6                     43        15                       7             621          3                      2               679      18
1970          8             3        1         4    624                               16               43                1               693       7
1971        232                    132         6                1                                     111                1               476       7
1972        349            10      151              820         4                    163              936       140      2            2,421      154
1973          6             6   1,708                301        3    58              309         18   460         7               11  2,842       45
1974                               396                                               108            1,448       323                    1,952    321
1975        960            17     600                284                              45              200        50                    2,089      67
1976        818            10   1,847         10  2,540               8              386              244        67                    5,843      87
1971        299             1   1,089             1,209                              185              933                              3,715       1
1976         66                    340              930                              165              556        43                    2,057      43
1979        120                    510              904                              329              410                              2,273       0
1980        220                   350                196                              24              190                                980       0
1981                                                                                  50                                                  50       0
1982                               150               250                             190                                                 590       0
1983        165                    220               250                                                                                .635       0
TOTAL    4,411            907  11,282        873 13,976   1,270 1,055            8 2,859         83 5,545       835   189        121 39,317  4,097
I/  Revenue wagons.
/t Non-revenue vagons.
Source t RFFSA
March 1985



IUDURAL RAILWAT - ExPORt CORRIDOR - PmoJECr
Summir7 of UFSA'. Freight Wagon 4equirem_ts. 1985-1969
--- -------Actual-    ------ - -- -    --------- -F                 -orcst----
1980      1981      1982    1983       1984         1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
A.  Total Freight Traffic (billion ton-km)               33.2      31.1       31.7      29,6      33.8        36.0      38.2      40.5      42.9      45.5
B.  Average Wagon Load (ton)                             54.0      50.2       51.9      50,6      55.0        55.5      56.0      56.5      57.0      58.0        P.
C.  No. of Wagons Available                            39,005   39,616   39,608   39,108   39.177           39,722   39,712   39,726   39.765   39,831
D.  Availability (Z)                                     89.7      90.0      90,7      90.7       91.0        91.0      91.0      92,0      92.0      92.0
E.  Total Loaded Wagon-Km (million)                     615.1    619.6    610.8    585,4    608,5            648.2    680,8    715.5    752.6    785.2
F.  Average Load Factor (Z)                              55.6      56,9      55,2      56.1       54.7        5S.2      55,4      55.5      55.7      55.9
G.  Total Wagon-Km (million)                          1,106.3  1,088.9  1,106.5  1,042.9  1,112.4    1,174.3  1,228.8  1,289.2  1,351.2  1,404.6
M.  Average Annual Mileage (km)                        34,018   32.740   32,667   30,916   32,376           33,215   33,945   34,675   35,405   36,500
1.  Productivity (net ton-km per wagon)                 852.7    784.7    800.0    757.7    854.5            '05.8    960,1  1,017.7  1,078.8  1,143.5
J.  No. of Wagons Retired                                   -         -          -         -         -         201    1,094    1,802    1,486    1,418
of which:  Revenue Wagons                               -         -         -         -         -          201       656    1,081        892       851
Non-Revenue Wagons                          -         -         -         -         -           -       438       721        594       567
K,  Wagon Purchases                                          -         -         -         -         -         799    1,084    1,342    1,529    1,490
L.  No. of Wagons Transferred to Non-Revenue                 -         -         -         -         -           -       438       721       594        567
M.  Total No. of Wagons                                47,570   48,110   47 611   47 541   47 149           47 747   47 737   47,277   47,320   47 392
Revenue - RFFSA                                   40,948   41,080  40,163 3.59i 3:17                   V9iii 34,9W0        39,445   394 39,860
- Private                                 2,536    2,938    2,629    2,955    3,735            3,735    3,735    3,73S    3,735    3,735
Non-Revenue                                         4,086    4,092    4.272    4,423    4,097  /   4,097    4,097    4,097    4,097    4,097
1/ Excluding wagons transferred to CBTU.
Source:  RFFSA Statistics and Planning Departments, and mission estimates.
Harch 1985                                                                                                                                                       I



- 46 -
,tAN  2.9
INMAL FAI - m0m M
RI% Jisnm   1901
(-   DP C$ 1 HI)
1zuinm.t Prgras                     1980   1981   1982   1983  1984 Ttal  Z
1.  RuAbtitata of Matric Gauge Newo&               169    113   112    103    66   563  11
2. Iqxoven= of Catri Lim/Sao Pado Buicdh   131    81    22               25      11   270   5
3. Catt1i    cf Pe ax         do Ago               538    492   380    182    68  1,660  33
4. Pardum  and RAhaL 11tatia  of 1ocuwcvus        174   263    39        12    74   562  11
5. Parduand ttxhrrdzatia ofWas=                     65     5    43       54     34   20    4
6. IspraqEiu.  of Shrwb. Cbu       er System      441    373   366      292   281  1,753  35
7. otiu                                             10     8      7      11    15    51    1
WmZAL                                        1,528  1,335   969    679    549  5,06   10D
Ind= (       0bm     iIn 1980)                     100    87    63       44     36
So   : RSA, Plazxdt  I .atmiu.
Mirh 18



4 L7 -
TABEU 2.10
1 L5mM 3IL&   1 - 0t    IOIt -    N
WIlL' lmteUla.IS-
OESCRIPrION                                                      1985    1986    1987    1988    1989       TOTAL
GROUP I INVESTtlNTS                                              15.2        104.7    140.3   130.3    50.2  550.7
A. Metric Came Network Rehabilltation Progra                     46.6    92.1   137.1   129.7    49.8       455.5
1.  Parana Corridor ji                   STEI    35    9.37    CT5                              ":      1T.T
2.  Golas-Minas Corridor j                                   13.5    31.9    56.6    55.3    22.0       179.3
3.  Rio Grand  do Sul Network (Phase 1)                       7.2    10.5      6.0     4.7      -        30.4
4.  Bahta Network                                             6.4      9.9     7.5     4.3      -        30.1
S. Others                                                     0.9     0.5      0.3     -        -         1.7
1. Broad Gauge (Central Line Civil Works Consolidation)            1.2     0.8     0.1     -        -         2.1
C. Motive - Powr and Rollinx Stack                                70.8     6.0      -       -       -        76.6
6.  Re-engining/Overhaul of 64 Locos and Parts               =T I       .      -       -        -        7T
7.  Purchase of 20 Locos and Parts                           33.1      --                       -        33.1
S.  Purchase of 300  a1goes                                   16.6     -       -       -        -        16.6
0. Others                                                         6.4      5.8     3.1      0.6     0.6      16.3
9. OIS/IIS Development (SICO I)                                  7 2.i             -   -                   .0
10. Technical Assistance and Training                         1.7      3.0     1.6     0.6      0.4       7.3
GROUP II INVCSTMES                                                13.0    37.5    67.3    46.3    31.1       IS.2
e.  Broad GaCue Network Progra-m                                   2.8    10.2    11.4      4.0     -        26.4
11. Terminals and Yards                                       0.9      4.6     2.1     0.5      -         1T1,
12. Signaling and Telecomuinications                          1.9      5.4     9.3     3.5      -        20.1
F.  Motive Paver and lollinng Stock                               10.1    22.6    30.0    20.0    20.0      t03.0
13. Remanufacture/upgradLng of Locos                          6.0    14.0 2o.0        1       120.0   2     0. 
1_. Rnhabilitation/jModrniaatLon of Wagons                    4.2     5.8    10.0      -        -        23.0
G. Others                                                         -        4.5    25.9    22.3    11.1       61.6
IS./IIS/MIS Development (SIGO II)                             -i               T 2.T  11Z.              ** S0  .v
16. Vorkuhops UpgradinglRoorganizatlon                        -        2.5    13.9     6.3      1.1      23.1
GRP III IEVESTMEITS                                               26.6   105.9   109.0   101.2    64.4      427.1
K. Metric Cause Network Rehabilitation  roam                       1.5     2.2     7.1    12.5    19.2       42.5
17. Rio Grande do Sul Netwotk  Phas  Il)                      -          -     -       2.9     7.2       10.1
18. Northeast  etework (Safety Projects)                      1.3      2.0     3.5     3.5      I.S      11.8
19. Dauru-Corumba                                             -       -        1.4     S.1      4.S      15.0
20. Others                                                    0.2     0.2      0.2     1.0      2.0       3.6
I.  Broad Caq-l Network Program                                    -       -       1.5     4.3      6.4      12.2
2I. Sao Paulo Line (Infra StablILzation)                       -      -        I.S       T C3  .            T
J. Ferrowia do Aco                                               25.1    27.9    20.1      9.9      -        63.0
22. InfrastructurelSupers:ructure                                    -         -       -        -        5;
23. System                                                   24.6    27.9    20.1      9.9     -         82.S
K. Motive - Power and Rolling Stock                                -      75.5    80.3    74.5    53.6      289.4
24. Pfrchase of 51 Locos                                            *1i7    1         17.5    *i5        7E.6
25. Purcbase of 4.020 wagoas                                   -      55.1    63.3    57.0    39.4      214.6
TOTAL                                                           164.8   248.1   316.6   277.5   165.7   1.173.0
Including physical and price concingaecie. excluding TA which Is hwmn as Item 10.
Source: EmSA and  MiUon Zstimate
waelh 198S



- 48
TAILE 2.11
Sgm
FDULAL RAuIA - ePORT CuIDOt - PROJ=
E1115A  Iuaimet Fluaaciua   lan (1955-1989)
(us1  Million)
S 0 U R C E S O F FU N D S
D  E  S C  R  I  P T I  0 N                           Public     UNDES&           External
Total    Resources   FINAHE    IBRD   Finance   RFFSA
GROUP I - INVESTHENTS                                550.7      55.6      121.6   190.0       61.7   121.8
A.  Metric Cauge Network                             455.5      49.3      102.7   186.0        7.6   109.9
1. Parana corrtdor                              214.0       31.4T 3            T0.0  -7Ti;        S
2. Golan-Minas Corridor                          179.3      10.8       22.0    88.8       1.7    56.0
3. Rlo Grande do Sul Corridor                    30.4        5.0       22.7     -         -        2.7
4. Bahia                                          30.1       2.1       28.0     -         -        -
S. Others                                          1.7       -          -       -         -        1.7
B. Broad Gauge (Central Line Civil Works)              2.1       _           _      _          _       2.1
C. Motive Power and Rolling Stock                     92.9       6.1       14.9     -         54.1     1.7
6. Reenginng of 84 Locw77                                    6.1        -       -        21.0     -
7. Parchase of 20 Locos                          33.1        -          -       -        33.1     -
8. Purchase of 300 Wagons                         16.6       -         14.9     -         -        1.7
D. Others                                             16.3       0.2        4.0     4.0       -        8.1
9. OIS/MIS Development (SIGO I)                    9.0       -          4.0     -                 3-7
10. Technical Assistance & Training               7.3        0.2        -       4.0       -       3.t
GROUP II - INVESTMENTS                               195.2       -         28.4     -         39.0   127.8
E. Broad Gauge Network Program                        28.4       -         28,4     -          -       -
11. Terminal and Yards                            8.3        -          8.3     --
12. Signalling  and Telecomnications             20.1        -         20.1     -         -       -
F. Motive Power and Rolling Stock                    103.0       -          -       -         13.0   90.0
13. Remnufacturing & Upgrading of Locos          80                                      13 0 3     ff
14. Rehabllitation & Modernization of Wagons     23.0       -           -       -         -      23.0
C. Others                                             63.8       -          -       -        26.0    37.8
15. OISXIS Development (SIGO II)                 40.0        -          -       -        16.0    24.0
16. Workshop Upgrading/Reorganization            23.8       -           -       -        10.0    13.8
GROUP III - INVESTMENTS                              427.1      24.4      178.8     -        120.0   103.9
R.  Metric Gauge Network                              42.5      24.4       16.0     -         -        2.1
17. Rio Grande do Sul (Phase II)                 10.1        2.0        6.0     -         -       2.1
18. Northeat Netvork                             13.8       13.8        -       -
19. Bauru--Corumba                               15.0        5.0       10.0     -
20. Others                                        3.6        3.6        -       - 6
I.  Broad G ag  Network                               12.2       -          6.6     -         -        5.6
21. Sao Paulo Line                                12.2       -          6.6     -         -        5.6
J.  Ferrovia do Ao                                    83.0       -                           83.0     -
22. Infra and Superstructure                      0.5        -          -       -         0.5     -
23. System                                       82.5        -          -       -        82.5     -
K. Motive Power and Rolling Stock                   289.4       -        156.2     -        37.0    96.2
24. Parch"e of 51 Locos            Z5                                -- -               - 37T  077
25. Purchase of 4,581 vagons                   214.8        -        156.2     -                58.6
TOTAL                1,173.0      80.0      328.8   190.0      220.7   353.5
Source: UPYSA and Mission Estimates
March 1985



-49 -                               l7uT  3.1
TEM Rnmw - RE  OmaM - P2Dcr
J5M1  --.mtimm 1        U_A    z1 fi_Thrwu  Lgf8-Lqm
PeEfozane Tmrgets                              1985    1986      1987     1988     L989
A. Qeraticmal Targs
1. Nmber d Staf (in '00Ch, at yew enl)        69.5    683       68.0      685      69.1
2. FreIght loccxtive AvilabUitY (Z)             81       82       83        84       85
3.  YreIgt Iocawtive Utiliation (X)             61       62       63        64       65
4. FreIgt iocmatiue Mileaa  ('000 km pa.)    54.8    58.4       60.2      62.1     65.7
5. FreIght Iocaa,tive Prluctivity
(millon net ton-Io Pa.)                  32.0    34.0      36.1     384      40.9
6. freigt WgonAvailability (Z)                  91       91       92        92
7. F-eght Wag:x Mileaw ('000 km p.a.)         33.2    33.9      34.7      35.4     36.5
8. WM=n T      iurnaramd Tim (e dXg
MR. fraffic, in days)                    8.1      8.0      7.9      7.8       7.7
9. back Rehabilitation, 'km                     111     287      477       477      23
B. 1nrncil T
10. Wozldrzg Ratio (with nuzation, %)           84       79       78        77       76
11. Ma2dn  Nobnmizatim as a 2 of
Total Operatir Reve                        16       15       14       13        12
12. Mdumi of    od.  as a % Internaly
Gemte   Fundsl/                            65      50        30       30       30
13. CoUecimn of Acounts Receivbles (days)                45       45       45        45
14. Pay.ts ofdle ArComts (days)                          45       45       45        45
1/ Famludixg Bank loan.
Sawre: RFESA andl mssion estimtes.
March 1985



- 50 -
TAKLE 3.2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL   RAfMAY -IEPORT CORRIDOR -PROJECT
Project Cost Sumry  1
(US$ '000)
Phyical
RAILVAY POLIC  t IGIAS-MM                       emu C a  iuies
INSTITUTIONAL     SERIS      PARAN-
DEVREIET        CoIDOR  CMRRIDOR  Total         z   mouwt
----=3               =    .  _= --              =   ~
1. weSTENT COSIS
A. CIVIL   E                            - .59206   86i13  145,519   9.9 14,390
S. NATERIALS                             -      41,8      36,310   78,209   4.1  3,213
C. E UIT                                 -      3?9666   43P167   02Y83   7.1   ,9no
D. SWTVME                            14012           -        -    19012  10,0    101
E. TECHICAL ASSISTAN                 3u877       1432    29009    7319   9.6    706
F. TRAININ OF PR NL                  1,114           -        -    1,114  10.0    111
Total INWESTIN COSTS                    6,003     142P203  167799  3164004   7.7 24,431
Total &SELE COSTS                       6003       142,203  167,799  316,004   7.7 24,431
PhiAcal CmUtr:in                       600        9,96    13963   24P431   0.0         0
Price Cntinimnes                        673      27?085   32,320   60,079   7.3  49400
Total PROJECT COSTS                     79276      1799256  213,9M2   400,514   7.2 2B9830
m_===   ==   =  =3=                                      =
Tans                                  1O3        24i676   29v52B   55,235   7.2  3994
Foreign Echarie                       3,105      979424  109t257  209,786   6.8  14,350
1/  Based on targeted four-and-a-half year implementation schedule.
Source:   RWFSA and mission estimates.
May 1985



IUWJ.L RAILWAYV - EMOT COhRhDO  - IUOJCT
Policy and Institutional Revelo.at Comonanout - Coot Table
*m&dm of Tel.! led.o Cut
924  04011                  Fumotu,,
swiflulli                    I.,.~~~~~B  costs       Tdals rle 1w2f1 CmtleUeeln              LeSl                ft4.
-    --                            t~~~~~~~~Excl,hMin I  Wt fog'-. lao.  Amme
uiMt    191It 190  917 2Igo 191 TsuiS IRa'. cutS1316 l    ipi I"? 0 111 TStUI   515   1 11101   113 1919 To; Pta     "I ti.TmO  Tome  Totai  941   W.ga Tmx IoAW 06et
A. CIO-Y10   CT29 KLM
-29UMAIttm W  MMAIATM115F13m                     NW4H@17   12 24  12   -          4        2.1    30   i2   30               1  21    34  .72    39           144       24    0       22   144   0.204.5    *,ll    to
-291LEMATOfl W LINE (LOA  IN 9030                FI-#InN     -                                                  1                                                                      I-        :4  652    015    TO
*EUWTFTAT2WIN LM  PUWA                    961lUA     12  24       4-        2       2,            6  It            -106      14   12   I9   --22                  31   I5  9 5             .105        ,2      TO
5*-Toal CfTlNl-M       ACIUMON KM                                                                    61   121   46              M  23  41  144    W              IN-27     6?   162      40  220
0. C06T-CCWiINIS TMU! WS N2MI ACTISE KM
-WMIN W U CWT-AOCWIITM                           NA-NMl1    40 40 -.          -3.            3    121   121     - - - 243    135144              ---279r                70  2l7       42  219   0.1 $.a    4.25    TO
4M4tUAt1U6MESM                                  M*4111114  4040    -         -    -6        3    I21    125                 --- 43 In   144      .   .   .   279        70 16?             V 427 0.20.250.1           to
-S1111210TSUNUWMCOI"O                           IM*410151   4020        --- .      .         4    262   01      - -- -2   243       60    Pi    ---27  6                a495id        41274 0.20..5    0.15    TO
*NS2USISWINTTSUWEMTMUV   91-151722040--  60                          3  6152             - -  -2             4024   -  - - ---    135_                         2252.0.   05   T
5-oWl CUT-AMI1M   TftIF NO5 NTIM  OCt1N KMU                                                        444   445     -   -   -   91  19   527 -V       .        -  1,046     261   in      1I? 5.04A
C. PWPTIINI NO MSIIUUU ACTION KM
-EP. I INPLUW WT2U0WAiMM             IO   PMt     N-MMI   26 24 12512  -   4               0.5   29    54    97 97  -6 0           1n212 10242134-   613                404 34        1222152    0.50Its   0,5        TO
-KW"  IP.t5MILLAT1U0FSW 1r                          U        2   5   I   -   -   20.  201.2   202   34   304   -   -1,25I2   226  199   317   -   -  WTI5               970  521    121 1e.25   0.2  0.0    tot    W
-99.VIUEACSSCAT2ISUSmmKM                         961-NUAU    4     91 -  --    13          I.2    20   46       .   .   .   id    23   54        .   .   .   76          27   M0       1    760off0.51    0.15    TO
*E55I2NIIL9QF TLO IWU70 92Z                     HAN-011111 i24II6I- 54                       3   56 73  M56-   264   31111a 5 -921                                       505In    20 20120.l0.50,21    TO
-9lI2U2It..UL L2 uUo T= iwEh19UNis               NA0-1511fi    6 2422   -   -   a2           2     If   72   36   -          1 20    20   Id   46   -   -   511          30   92      23  151   0.10.        0.2tel   TO
5*TOtal VIMlISI1 WS MOtImf OIISN KM                                                                  m1   09   M1  III   - 2.13    61  a.0         2   1     2.66        1,4 11    5     341 2.66
1. FLMWE iS MlE3I1 K9U9UT 91012 KA
-MWLW9IF STWATHIZCFL*10tCWISTI FtM               W-MM11    24  40  34  24  12  244           4     97   114   144  9   49  503   100   230 I 11214  72   IN0            219  402    220   720   0.5  0.!   0.51    TO
-411209O NA6wDT212W13 1TSMI IIS IVUNM-5NT                   52 24 24   -  -40                5     I 36        n 7     --    to     42    1     i 9   -       -     M    35212        332M3        ot0.50. 0.21       TO
-2M9FLOW2TIO12UW WA VOT IA"110IU                   U       20  75  71  25  25  220        5.2   IOt   30   3012  527 IV 114    III  449  404 174 10  lo4w              704  4M      215 1.40    0.1  0.1   0.51      Is
-ASWWW  WPUW     T                               961-11         n 72 6 24 24  196            3    In1219109  72721"S    155259229540100742                              111 445       III  742   0.104.51   0.51    TO
5*-otl PUEUi W US 96140V11              ACf1 T ION Km                                                36   06S  7M02M  2402.474   3M  5.3   913 409 369 1.142             Wit6 2,472    441 31,202
total ShEA                                                                  1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t411 -2.324 1.2457 45  24  5.4   1,9  2.51 s1.196 54  369 4.37 i      9114 -2.0918    970 '6,071
21. Ministry of Transport
-590093  i UNlll2U-UJIEM         C23100-fUobi     N41-lA      22  40  12   -         4        4     49   243   49   -          40    54   M1    62              4 -      1 21   222     65  404   Oil  0.3    fill    TO
TOtalKr                                                                                                 4924 M         9-- 0   540M   62--IS                                 W25M    61  04
72241                                                                        1.62~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t4   Ida4  1.24 412  M4  64t1  1.6d1  1,0191.LIM14VA3M  7.274i    1.11A  3,140   li03t hVi7
Sources: RUI and sission Utimotes.



TINIAL ZAIWMAf -  lUMT ClOAK  I - ltflJCT
Ooiaa-OOlasa Cra1u birtd - Cbait Table
(ISIS   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~lOOOiftA3  NI 
am  ma                           ?armagoc
Smu.ts                                                  km-  a  Call,            -               ousls lfrie     Calsaewn,                          tIl                       lb.
- --                IEWICa. 0.U4.I             Cal. a.   kmus          uf
athi      no.   tildu    4 t   low'i 1m     w0       Si Cast   aM        amU     an?   aM        am1     MuA      lo"     09t"    am      au      am0    Totl   for. LaIi, lass    lam     l'wa    in   ra. fatwe. bt
I. lWfAOl ciNf
A. 9UA% arMs
1. IEINMTIW ENO ILlIOfI aVWa
.lfNluLaIS41  OF Wil  nw ii I K                        M          3     00    114    114    At       447         it      951   2,79   i.tg    ta1il   2,107   13,111   1.119   1.000   1.9?.  5,M0   2.2.    tentl           0.040   9.01    3,047   l,Mn   0.1 10.31    0.11          UX
-     9o~   g   Ap g  IflffS                     a           04   ill    3o6   lii       t      Its 113    a        SU 1     A 1 263   .36    7.744   asia,    7.39   ait   still  3.010  3.215  1.70   10.21           3.   1.111513   1,514      on 10,310 Oi1.21      0.13      CO
-4Mea   OfUMTEiS W  MaNES                               A           00    IIn    SU    ass    am1   a.oi          a5       an1    mu      Ii        ,p    73    a.50        iii     sa1    an       U       113    2,O4          714   aa3       34    2.01    Il 0.35    0.01           to
*WITh.i tilDaIR OF lIlIE                               la          iJ5   o.s   a,,:              -    a.2        uo.a     tie      so     691       -              ,1'3     aTS     34      IV        -            i114         13      is        32    a.1611  Sal  0.31    0.13        to
kb-Mat4 Jflbiflf    fl          IaaTOa  IN                                                                                1;.2    4.429   T.41    I.0    3,42    20134   2473   NiC142  i.i          9.,1   ,M    32m mm         n.sM  aHOW    0.9         X-.m
2. 41973113 KWSiLIT4TaU Mi
-    OFn VI                                       TV101n. i    29    70   I25   125162            411        it.      on7  1.217   2.011   2.03    2,0ll   4.122       47   a1,09   2.313  2.170  2IMP   1121            3.046   I'M0    laW        I'm       0 0.35    4.07        00
.l ro if R                                        NMat,  II         4 a ll aN       l      of 9   s0       as1   1a1m    1.1ri    il1o  s.316  li.e    1Ys71i   1,213  3.61o   eon7  4.199   1.77  2ma1                  1ow     one404 321 ME 2.110   0.00  9.A          0.11      II
409016 OF rulIwSO                                      to       1.614hl 3.09  0.    43 0.0   3.014  019131       0.9   1.124   3.010   1.'M    1.30   7,44   17.5111  asia   s.ca   g.M    tatil   7.12    32.72             13.7w    3.04     7.0741  22    4.00   4.J    0.1           0
AAIIUWOF0ALLAT                                       IN.0 73        0      71   1*7    a2?    03    421           to      290    700   0740   I.7M        539    0.0        29      004   1.71  11.319     mat   1.012        1.3  2103.29A sat                    oe 5    earn          to
-WtSh            F LW VIJI                            to.0I        20    74    as5   azi    42    tal             0.7      IV7    309    39190            M9      I'MU      iso     sn      so      M       Jn     2.133i2w ml16                        I'M        ge 5    oa%           to
.nRAMfI U 111IJ                                        U            04    Ito  tIn      in9     II     00         0.7      000    MU43    I.2    2.734     M     1.706      400   1.111   2.141  2.1    a.wd   o.w4            MISu  3s.c    1i.e       o         I 0.33    0.01        to
-*t 7M OrfMc                                           Um            44Is1311n19391I    2.1  IX  IAl  013N63  M*2 " 100i IN011009121633.39                                                                                                        11111  32aM1   0 0.33  0.03  to
-atfifU   WlmsC                                         0            -     &Z    .         .      .    2        It.,       -.050 PA                -       -    I'm1         -1.13          -        -       -    a,am                 in        79   a.t30       001.7510.47           u
-CONI7..11O. i nITDAIN  if 511913                      U           0.3     . 5 301.7   9.7    4.7   41.7         11.7     054    450   2.249      047      314   4,117      639     60   2.018      IlI   024    OM1           10.7    23.15     719   4.291       0  0,35    0.0        5X
lb-fatal  UUTEEII   ~ft2illS  as                                                             em     a.co  19.010   7.052   0,097 0.120   4.33412.030113.11,312339 .2120170.34 1.700  22.93 14404   74.3
-PAMEtIflhtTL. iF   KM 1311W3                           9           72    12    II       -             0          .1      lOS       I 9 0           -       -      339      [is      7       4  Id3in                           3VI      51       3       li       a 00.71     9.0       a
- FA11  iF TIC  32101                                   3          90    19    09       ?9      -               10.7    2,39   3.00    2,109   1O  2             91    2.0136   1.019   3.290  l.3M               KimO        7.96   low9        H     14`111      0  0,7  10.00         U
10-Total IIC  KS? S  1997Sf                                                                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~.94  .7    293 10  -    0.909   3.003S  31.31  36.030  3.292  -11 0.0  1 .230 1~414OI 10 1 0724  10,06
1*-titl lWM9i ml kIm112.9   9002.0 M                                                                                                                       alsI 12       90    ,112.212.5 MISS                         2034         00    02    1.0   1a
I. 0900113M - R lliChflaM
-q  p" or   473  (0010   nuasus                         SIAfI I3                      01   2a      3      07       104-I            1.191   2.7M    3.144    10     7,92               N13,4          ,11          M LOOP1.S 0  i  4.7  0.329   Islas   liO  10.409 1. 0.0 0.      01       U
*INSALL,W. TT9MfCCUO 9tPVM                               Sf021l0               I    II    21        1      47       31.0        -     M       430    hO       Ili   l.i22n             321    M4    MU1    17s   3,400              142   1.04       ml3   3.67    0.1  0.3       0.11      U
-finS   O VIES. (SaIUw                                     a3           -           134   lB       Ii    SU4        34.7        -       -    0.0    6.27    III   11l471         -            1,9    0.0       Up  12.472        32,7   blOt    I.W    11.07        0.0   0.4      Cl       a
-ImmtUio IN  iffLn,m 93171                                 11 -                     IS    to       17    316         1.0        -             7     3.006      92    1,47        -       -     92    I'M       IV?    2.43          m     am         an    i.e       A 0.2  1 4.    .23     a0
W-ieli lIIW 5P  -  lUMUteiO f ItA S                                                                                                -   1.03   $0.34 I , 11.79  1t..    _i.           - 1.720     s 11 1012i.34   - 1.93   51.409  -2.lm    1.44    3.200   31.00
C. TON S 51001W
*CSPInIT.t   Or Xif   TOINI                               U          2.1   7.9       .      .            .  I      103.0     l    1143 2102    -                     .171     al9  12.17                             I - - v2e7     00     06       lM    1.374    0.1  9.35      oil       el
-attiftam   a   mIfail v  idl                             a          4.1  02.3    2.?1       -     -    30.        120.9     743   2.013    322        -       -   33          56   2.71       61                     2.907       im03    t.4n      443    2.4      0.  0.3       0.1       to
-( d1M . a W . it fShiLu                                  31.02       0.2    1.9      3      -                     431.7       la     77      00I       -             .723      94     III  aI'M         -       -       1   Iail   19 0.0           317   3.1s12  .1  0.3        9.11      to
-111. I    aim     lum 1911IOA             11. M2      0.    2.1       2             -                011      Mi   2.03       a2                     2.075    .131   1,220   1.009       -       -     2.12          a    1.39       VI    WI13      0.1  0.35    4.11       U
-910650  tUTU,.  U    M(31901                               I          It    St0  Nlo00                             31.0      204   1.032               -       -       1      2n9   1,111   I'm0        -       - 2.3            a,m1    mS     o         3.2910  o6   0.7    0.N          ai
kb-fatal filMANV 018)w                                                                                                         161    .0        ,0                       .4      .1      .0      .9         -       - 1.0             .7 107         110 9.
0. IffIEJPS FACILITIES
-CaMTmXIas aO       . [ APO   gt . tO                    il. f3o       0     30     N      10    Is       lit      6.7       004    911   1.024   i.U2a       67    001       907    9%    2,970  1.003       44      ,2334      7.101   3.117      93    6.94   U.S  0.31    0.11          U
-ff41  I liflLW CF   tUNERwff           100990              i           I      I      2      2      I       7      ',99.0    0.00    1.011 2I'M    2.040   I'm0   7I'M    1.110   1,100   2,131   2.29   s.C"          s43       04364  3I-Ml       90     94011   0.9   0.7       0.1      to
-tdh. I two.Uor           35T311290FA                      V            I      I      2      2      I       7         10t     01I SO II       tI2s     0 11 9It      1,213     I??     In     400      03     337    1.044         10N      M       217  1l.0       0.1  0,3      0.1       Ue
1*fatal IifKmo    FtRIlIit                                                                                                     s7 I.9,-        2.9In   _,1 .1 19   isI    s -ai.,   2197   2.19  I.-In  o;-I,  3.-I   1d,77         9.03   3.9    1iaa    unM
-9&M4101KW    -                                        FAO-PiM         0o    10    329   210       of    779         3.1       91    .101    249      S       Ill    1.109     lita    zi      o       Sn      Its   l.m            m      ns        a     a=       0.  0.3       0.i1      la
-C00011309313l90iXF CU511                              060-00         30    16       K     30    30       131         3       N        It     41      03       N      101       a       It     74      a.              n            el ma  03   194oNd4,0                 .23    0.11       ri
kb-fatal KVSUvlr  AP  mitmi.                                                                                                     af      219   -420      46      13    1.422      as      29      lit    o3    23     1.042           001   1.140      270    lam
fvo4i IfATifE       Snif                                                                                                        12.412  MTIU  ga.3   ens   n.m1    12201 ,33          1 iu3 22.0   s0.16   311,301 22,943  279.3      "Am42   vast  3d.e7   ii
Mat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uI 22.11 2     64,100 41a09 1.035 10.20 3 SitII'399? Us.50 31121 2.9013 179s2    977440 3,114  20.04 179.2
PAg 3a 0191 tOGS1
source armA and alsica *otisaatoa.



VUUFA2 KAILVAT - 226 V             U10 COV    VOICTW
Parana Corridor - Cost Table
lopolli,                                               kw4 Calls                            t.W.l tqis2m co4goaunn                             19.l                     "M4.
-                  (Fel~7 g.  Rodus I       C40. Fe,.  INN.   $=
SAl      too5  3l33   337   I9TS     30 tm   oul   out [oil  393    3its    396       two0    lop9   3gb!   3W    360    ri           M 39    M 3 1 tot      F.w. (g. Taal  to"    foul    WA0   W. To 00140 stin
z. Mn Call
.  T UT  ml
*51062111111    U OMt I LOI    i                      14          32    14   142   341    II    460          40.2   3,442   4,49    &,30   &.M4   2,90   22.34    .4         .4      .2 1,gd ,W fU   139   4,131  53,41*  11.30  30.391    .131  53.231  0.1.15 0.3     0.3     U
*Nev     t a  N1W"  an1.3                             a           0    340   373   III0 U                      36   3.203   still  5.32        2131  2,403   U7,3   3,26    low1   7.060   7,064   4,3Y   N4.ow          ,04  12,0      3.025   24A9    0.15 0.3       9.31      M
-4.31 K44I3211       U4111raa    ls                    A       I'M     W      3       24      -   2.432        M.      044    044    243       36            6.WM   *.1s      "W      m        v            z.as2        ,W'  I.W          1    2.255  0.11  0.35    .0.3        U
Om .    W  N  W $11u110                         a          9.7  it.?                         30.4       40,4      04      713                        1- 364    7   0  313424                                        in      17      23    3.04   0.3   0.1        0.31     co
$A441.3.  *93913913  EIM12.34tIU 01                                                                                       .     9.49W   33.336  32.342   4.31   40,140   ,221  I3.I   37,494   0.19  *0.4 33 2.21         22.35   33.03    -.414   OM.3
2. kt391A    inWI*ItAiU  On
40m         V   30M                                 IN. II       4    514    174   174    17    39           32.3      492   3,279  2,1410  2.40   3.09    2.3U1    491  5,77   3,412   2.411  1.447    1.434          2.31   4.07      1.42 *40 0.14      0 0.3       0.17     It
*flink W au3                                          U         19,  302.  in1.  17n.7   4.4   s2.5            3       99I  2.2*7   4,39   4.39   2.33   *4,217  2.454  2,90*   1.22    1.2    1.47 34n     17,64      33,2    3.391   2a4  17.3    0.44  0.35    0.36           It
-m *o    W 33fl131t                                           loin3.0 72     4.197  4,197  2.291 *1,232         *   1.442   2.31   4,407  4,44    2.'M    14,191  3.309   2.02    3.444  5.171   .2172  23.422         DM42    2.647    2.sm    *.    0.46   0.7    0.34        01f
-4A?111  AU 3.34                                    TV. a2        49   IV7 2  212 W         *if     My          to     492   32.24   2.177   3.37   1.972    ?,M9    496   1,373   2,416  2.464  3.02    9.403          3.911  4.31      Is 1. 1,0.11       I 0.3      6.3       U
39.0J913  W 3.391                                    39. U       40    144   I7a   *4        7     Po9        1.3      M4      NS    IN        0      402    2,93     2M      19   3.427   3.1*0    31    34220         3.30   1.71       W37     .3       6 6,35    0.35       U
W3.DDt v mu2*                                        u         19.731021  372.7  171.1  1448   1232.          Ila      142     IN   1479   1.471    h4o   e.9         340     M9   *711   3m1   I.44        512i7      2.417  2.93   41    1.673           06.3        0.31      I
101311111      ?MM                                    M2          7   372    M1       M     144    9M         2.       210    140    6994 I"4                I'M9    22       all  3.46    2.373     34    3740         I'm0   1.'M       101   1.740   0.44  0.20    0,35       U
43979.03.31 3024W  33331                              a           10    22    *6    to        I      14         v       M937   3     I22 304    3.42  5In    4449,    M0   .10   love0  I'm           743  11.47        3,31   2.93       *3    0$.V7    0.45   3       6.35     U
I40tota2 0130339w   0263330334   M                                                                                       4.79*   I' 3,1  7.325  3731 61.701  49.741  &m,   *i.m   ao,711 nt3a  12.322   21.2              27.749  22.2    11.449  73.33
2. Ian MM33 An  Nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
6331.IWAL.U W KW3739                                6           5    0       4a  a               *2          17  31314   1.104   1.079                     32.9   31,111  3.34   3,4*1                    3,147      2.400     AN       2M     3.147     0.1  0. 67$.          U
-nomuA   ta Mc          utI                                       to   135  3253                    442      *1.2    1.34   2.31   2.44    13.*              60.40   1,M    2,331   2.539   3.711           7.04        5,112  3,1         30    1.V0       0 0.75    .0.3       a
3 fdToal MX1   ot mu4                                                                                                     13.47  24.297  53.521  31W12537*1      113434531*2.4321 349   41.774  40,191  22.744347.140        00,243 Wool9   23,79   347.540
."=     vU    al 339319439.32365                       111734                I    39    24       2      34      2797.       * - 2.3     503   7,3401    M9   *4.46          -    .3     7.223   9,9     *.=    33.3       14.154  2.330    2,31129   13,9    6.1  6.0       #.I      a
*3MI.UvIW7IC  3tS3SIUM                                1141349               I     It    24      2      24       4JSo4.3                         ti           146 ,9  ,27 2  .4   46%   1,14 2 2         231      4.140     371  3.430        729   4440    0.3  9.3       0,21      U
.        UV OF  13  &I111F1K1                                                    1231   317    v9      in        32.4       -       -  3.3    4.224       M9   7W73                     3.937   596       In 17 34.39      6.39   3.o3    3.da      ,31.   0.3  0.1         0.3      a
*6763233433549130IF-                                                              231   217    29    177         2.         .       -      4 4 73i        ol   3.31                      GU.42   924      92    2.30         514    629       246    3439    0.3 4.3       0.31      Co
0*1011-fu  333012   W1 Ta     ~       I                                                                                                   30.123  33,644   3,543   311431      .3464  32.435 33.ow   2.              'la44   27.3    4.44   4.329   3.441
.(13330496v                                              U            3vim    4    .      .      .       6       133,9    379    744        .             .-    1,11*    434  4 M                  -       -   I.1M           02    604       It 362.94 0.10.31    4.35              U
.N2UitOt3U     (93134  U 1TA9                           K          2.3   3.3      .             .    5,4       In,9      114   W37                    .        Ism9      M3      a9                            Ism.324      4       4521     I6N    3.2M    0.3  0.5  3        0.3  
-mm3. I 1. vUV 304733                                   11.E1       6.4   2.0      4      -              I       la1       M0      94    400       *             ,539      74    102     so                     I -    .01   W4      4IR      202   3,010    6.2  0.31    0.5       Uo
41016. I4 MMO 19134M MW U 33T3V. 02                                0.1   2,    2.7   13.               7.3      W.)       IN4  1,q ,44? 11       403            is21m     234  3t,53    3.31     644       -     .43       3.331  1.716       $11    3.431   04.  0.3     4.3       Ul
A~ *300LL,,I U             13 IP                     6          30   t3o   t6y       *      .     33        30.4     273   low7   1,3o                     I' 2M     311   3,307   3,391              * 3234          2.33      29       21    1.314  4.44   0.7    0.01        U
5ht,t*   yen0 N s   m                                                                                                      1.447  4.11    2.412    43          -  9.03   3.7       4,93   3.510m   _04            -0.643    -4.99   -4432    2,302   10.
OF333      "     Mm.31023t1                     tO. 33        M      a      6    20    i4    330          0.3      M9       M2   1.02      In     463    4.41#     693    9W    2.06   3.344      Pi0  ,.            3.913   2.794     in0    ,3111   0.3  .-35    0.5        co
.  4 3443 11111  WINTER             13              V           1      3     2      3      I       I      699,    .490   3.460   2.46     I' 3.3    3. 60    014  3.3    2,234   2.33   13.53    3.3      7.734       1.31   Ism8       77     Yong3   .3   4.,       0.3     Uo
-aim9. I(939, a  am l to Y              i                 I           I      3                           I      226.3     20      23      440    220    IE    -3.53       2 id     036    10     IU       Wi   1.o9           34    04         31.1496    0.3  0.35    0.35         Ul
v gm24U.                                      NA-MM3    403303I2P                   4 I        .310       3.5    933So1421So  1123,740    343  411  II7  1774  M7  3.3.                                               5 1493,204          b42.770.3.214.1L   T&
-(11Ut1011111     3 N   2Elm Um =t                    11114"3        a      3     3    is       3      In          2       40      I3t     3       3      40       32      a3      41      74     W9      v       32           M     21,       22      53290.4401.3         0.3      101
O4h,1141 W 31335111 W       324t                                                                                             135     420    W2      422     232-4'9          135    02       M9     154    5392.321             433N    7        3741N 2400
foul3 239         lm1396111                                                                                                  3.7  53.92   23I13  a3n   30.933  w07,3   34.60' 1932  04.04   .41.0   27.311  213.311    349.317  ml"9  39.1131 23.112
An 2, I11111 latfo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- g fb      - n.u*lDmaa  h
kotaci UIFIA eel mission estimates.



-54-                                           Table 3.6
BRAZIL
FEDEthL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
Project Finaucj.ng Plan Suary 11
(USS 'M000
a.  By Suary Accounts
FER
1OULD DME     IgmES        EFSA         0IEl      0 1uwNI      Total
Amont       AmIount  Z   Amount  Z    AmtA    I  Aumnt  Z   bAurit  Z
-   -  -    -    m~        ~~ -     - _._  m  ma.       -_   _
Ie. iNESXT      COSTS
A. CIVL 111KB              52i052 23  3995  21  7noss  38           -  -  24,706  13  137,011  47
B. Il1iWLS                 57v521 59  14,102 15   25483 26          -  -        0  0   97,00   24
C. EWINIElT                74,M166 71       -  -    47M    5  7,610  7  17,431 17  103,m  24
B. SFTE                       970 10        -  -       242 20       -  -        0  0    1,212   0
E. TECHlAL ASBITICME        4,549 50        -  -    4,347 49        -  -      202  2    9,OU    2
F. TAIDA I fFPERSI            704 50        -  -       704 S0       -  -        0  0    19409   0
Totl JIESTNT COM             169,93 47  54,097 14  106i,50  27  7,10  2  42,341 11  400,514  100
Total Disbursmnt              139963 47  54097 14  106,903 27  7,610  2  42,341  11  4009514  100
-   - -=                              - _ --  -   - -u
Ibv 2, IM5 10:56
b. By Project Component
F0EML
vmu DM         1 mE5       WmA         OTDS    UIEN            Toul
Aount  Z  Aount  Z   haut  Z  Amoun  Z  ASmont  Z   Aurnt  Z
A. AILVAT POLICT I INSTITUTI l IELWIENT        49002 55        -  -    3,073 42        -  -      202  3 -7,27    2
B. m iNA-m     CAIS cRiR                 -  --   A 7760  21,913f2    56,1it531  1676  1  10,i75-6  92    -45
C. PM M    ll I                               97,185  45  32s194 15   47,315 22  5,934  3  319363 15  213M9M2  53
TOal Diwummt                                   189,963 47  54,097 14  106,503 27  79610  2  429341  It  400,514  100
1/  Based on targeted four-and-a-balf year implementation schedule.
Source:  RFFS& and mission estimates.
May 1985



BRAZIL
nDK3AL RAILWAT - Z ,IT COIMM - IROJE!
Polilg amd Inatitutlalai Developofit Cononent - Vinancin  Table
VWibmW  h Fs1rtie.I
IM  11%  1   . II IM   1                                        I IKNT
n 19W  593  979313 TSI   am  it  593 1933 293 Tel.  SW 1933597594319  Total
Im 3ns:s G=       2sn s2s san  s          2s mm  s        38 3 a  mm Sm sm2 us  St=
1. RFISA
A. COST-16110 3"1331W 
-SNW   ATIN  WTNWT ICIIUMOM                      17   36  19       - 72  17   36  19          - 72-
-IWWINIATIN W LIMELO   NOW3333993333              -
-93L311015313133      9      _037   33  23                        -   n   37         -  -  -   -       - -  - 3-    -
WWIT-WISM11                                        3 ts4   72  29        US  34   7  29             i n    .  .  .  .  .    . .
of U3T-mwI1I3 Tim! U (USZIM Auto3
-wu"Im U  ITgALInu                               a    n7       -  -  to   a1   72  -    U                         - -  -
*     l e    m SdeU5                             3    72  -  -  -   10   3    72  -           -    3-
-:18ITE OF . M     ta                                  a   -  -  -   In   to   a          -  -   I
-KIIN I WIEIATIUW0?fhU                           34  n7 - -    - .1    34   n   -  -  -  14    0  .  .  .  .
-RV*" Ih IWL  . .VTI   .NM   NA   KM            IU  .1  6.         -  46    a         R  .  .   .K    .  .  .
-KW     I u^UTIN V Wt                           1    4 3  1 n   -    -  1"   45 U  n-  -  -  24    *   I             
b-NTsl  1  UI  TUiUA    mm n u2    24  -  -  -    3   I4   2                            -4      - -    -    -  -  -  - I
e. UWIIW    M111K 331n 39
41.3 5K1. UWIMIIUW T R22  115  U2  37  -   3  IU2  15.5 U2  U7  -  43                                                   --  -- 
-intoIlMtmuAlnUIumS            oilU              to   43  2        -       5I  4323 n   -  -   71                         -
l.h-Total P1311W A  mam        alto               374  7  411 779       3--1  n7  3-59   79  -  3          .  * -     - . .
I  ftMIU IiI     IC hLW5fI     U3                     a   3     U       U m  4 11 "          36 -    
<11U111113W11U31113112"l                          a  46        *  55   3 n   4a  44   -  -  Its   -  -  I
-135    ATIN OF OKKKTIL1MFIIU                   57   2 4n  37  914         2 56    m     no 2    V 4  74   -  -  -     -    S
4MKW IIIT"MIt                                    I   129  7 35954   VI  3  12NUS9 4   VI   -
Wyou% K3  INS iNfLS into Km                        I"   32 41 5  234 U E X 3.1  I SU 01     4 M   IN       -  -  I  -  - I
N6 ItIN915534tIN3s1W731 W16 673U24  IN3.073              0 55 I5
Total RFFSA                                         3a.mee    eea..  e.emeanse m                        *  .... e..           m.
II. MLnistry of rransport
WU11 I  1 43mu2-3111     1  C       3ItF 3         27  144  3   -       -     -    -            -            44          - 
Totl M                                                     144  31          2    u2-              -    -  - -2 144           -2 
Toa                                                   31"  1.399 TO  34 SE 4.32  733 1154 e  34 IN  303   2  144  3115              I M
Tot31 RFFSA ,,,, _ ,1, ,,,,2_                       ....... 3 33, *,,3 ,2._mm _arn _5 ,*    e...... me _33 _,, .335 s _          .
1.Hsrdi   r i ot rrW3 po2t



BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAIuuyT - xDoiLTCORRIDoR - PRoJEcr
Goias-Mimas Centsn Corridor -  inauiueig Table
(UJS$ '1000)
Iwflatn 94 runmn
i.zsw am
I. IiinTfT n.3l4130m
somemam           ~~~~~~~~~~I" 33 3"       37.33"0   a                                   4          .  . 9 .0 .       
1`10416 dusmlulSITrnM 1111     in 3.1 3.21 3.11 Inl.a A              ..s.m.. 12.13*5341  .  .W43 V3.43.6  0  0- -6-
3. muaiKmvm fuIIi no
04t,3d362.133bm .241 rod33    SIn   533*.                                  a 4   04   0
-eaFm U  aif 2.54 40W &M  2.61 1441..                               .      . a     I.a itS  3.0 all1m i.:    ...
sera um                       52.314.1 ifiN       174      M   64   Mt11 2.0 9.    6111 IS  Si23476 4.2A
4lUtisTL                      to    muttI "a 2315  Un 3041 I417 m:.m   m:m   m a7   a *,.j.     .                          0 .    0 I
e  s111111' e  m s4               Il  am       la  ini  a   III  no u  mIn s     S W    -4  am    u s.la                           9   4 0  
-fom   IC101.  t    . ..4o.9                  .  .   .94..ml   .   .  ..0                                                         * ''  
St..AMIU  SUUH                Id  InI  913  3M 4   163471  ID  60    10 33  3V .41  163  1I  "12  34 io 3.1).06                     00 
M-l FUMinWSSflbOion           2.UJoI.N13lI.d 11.553,MIL   031,311 13e013.1W I&70It 8,3 313 bIDs b3.niD.u    - - -                     
Iaw Wmag a                   s11u1I!bn 2&1sI- 1an i.e I *,.3   5                                                                      so    low 2
is.alaai tSmmm                  .31 21.13 27.941 135M&  3775 .1 ,A61 6WM    L   ,M7J  .63.36Ml4,!g  a  a  394   2.3
*. tmine u
-IIL.9 am m"IVa m                      g u oa                                     .S.  8 to 1.3
lall  si  a   swn                  i.e i.w1 Pro Mn.w 594.-353IIIf -U  .16.377  M -13
6.TSU  - O rn
envmmwintz~~~~OLm.92 61 Ci                                           .16   132  IV  6333.
.inawuM.win                    In1M3IN              I     ...... .,1.4 M                      .      WI    .     .9 .                4 .
WPMr151111 M19 is                         4 M           31,91  34 24314 I    .   me -1.2 ;3.19   .     5.5 9m
I. INRf ff313
~CIMIMIIIIwmns"mms.a. ....                         ..I"101lwI ini1ua    usi       maw31      An  Mas           ..9.
.su.sum.ecumin.u  .        .        .~~~~M    2i  a 71 -.-Ma  in a. Im  soa 4kni na  'as  nf0 am  a
a. swum ems~~~~~~~.      . ...... ...
WI" mmmuMwmn                         H   3 6 I6      M     ..            29..3   59  3   3h  39  30.
-   - - - - -    ---~~~~~~--   -  -   -   --  -                        - ;- ---37mT,   fm to  a     it-  ai  w     u  -o
toul      ~- - -                             -&  -I. .-M  m--- b  -U" -43 -         -IA-I?V =f -,.  =1-1----                            --
11oa 39. lie na:a



URAZIL
FDERAL RAINAT - BXPIORT CORRIDR - FERWICI
Parana Corridor - Financing Table
(Us$ '000)
1. towsmem  ~~~~~~~~ILI-                                                                               m                                -                           m 
-votLallea cmI Doan            i  9Wt  539   3.m  5         el 21   1W   1W . 3 .  W .  51 . i .    W .       53,1  5W4  50691 total   MW1    3   4980It                 1W11 311  21111 tE   11,11
-Lgo     F    911-     1-m246    J -             -    -     -             --41,1 -                             -     -m  -i  -.21       --    --            -- -   -      - atlw bn .J1  -.11  .
4M.1IIa 1351          9M                                                                                                               v   -3M                                                   
i. 111111MNIN msilam
*winuM .S  Iminni                         53   2w    W       s.    .e6   sM   I.ul :.u   30  ma                                                                            0     .   3113.39397
*in.M9  .w w                                          o    .,,130    ,                   : :   :    :     -  sM"    39    33M'  v.    m   am* 1*                                                  * 
Si.f.Oai 5N1WW1W ~~~5MflS  -   sum   a3m  lii  0.5   3.3  3.3 Iwo1.3   &                                              4   3904300I",                                 M 3W OW    .3 Mmm
-aaw  9mm              x    13          412 0          1. p9  s.u   IM l .a 0 m .g    0 2319    U    a9   39    m    39  s..                                                           
SWUISS   JI I                        in4  111   hiM           Wi.W          9 sa.            m    .              E M        I       3.                                                   
W  Wmu                             1Il  3146   em1  a,31       3.12.1                                                                                                     Insat.1 m .U I      "I39.  I"
_rI  uuKDaw. 11                                1M911 3.3  4.  mfi .9.5..                                               6  .                                                                 m.             n11111
-WMIL. a   .snu  msSuim                          M    $oa    M    la  IMm    m    m                 a am         *     as    u     9 31 34.                      A9,41  to  10
Sb-Mi  IF           iuws                    .   e.Osg N.m.3si 4   Mid .139ss    ea 1ine. a.   n.                   .a  a..           . s  . aas.sa.*                                     *     *          us * 
a.11TOsLUt11 fNMiM                                             M                                                                                                                                             u
.rnIsuTI.L.uftMIImms       950   019  5~~~~~...... ..3..n                                                                                                              S     45- 3
NP111   w  Sinw  ~ t                   540  15.41 51,31  43.16  1*1 h3U  704.lA-I 1.1                                                                                               mu0   6     11    - UAW
-C.  I  M . 13   lo mumI                      .     .9  .1   .9  .0  5. 35.Onsa M5 113MMS
r9MI WILLEIF.i                               . .94  z   3.53 la 2.,203 *..   . .3..9. Msn VI
.gaj9R19My15                         .M 1.2 isam   2e.1a 21a01                                                                                                                                     w 11    MW1!i 'M113M   4    -     
1. t   am fitins
OF 19111W    g    L1 1s    .1    &   3                                                               m11   sot3   3111 n 9          3   .3
I U NsILn O sa M GsM          ...                                             NWI241114,111,G,?  .   *      .  in    z 393 ,    .s               ..9                                       9 s
uin.sswazms ~Is I           i I.                                               le    I               .5     0    9  14 M      14      5.1. 0in
.~~ S Mill. u  35       39  3,34  5.39           *  345.U    53   12 I0US0! _!    T   ""
5.-owi MUM"  WiSkim                           25I1 9.   5-40?  I-.         2.310W  193  rA90  3.39   39    - 4.39.   A   s.inls 1 3 6           .4. 0                                            0g44       *    0
-WU9519 d 11433915M35           ...                                           30  5013.9   90            E           W     35*   W0  3X  3.39
.-       539,9 m C 0 1 51  (NUUII           19   941  341  9.9    5.31    la54..                     .3                349  53    37      29 3130                                                     
.n.ssm.u~~~~~~~~~fmusrmui ...                               50?~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 1  -1--- 8---  9-0---- 1  .0....       3     4
a4lob.uaWMiIN a I5IUN                          19,  W2.41   s         I 1.1125.1.9...?.   . 36443393                  M3 31.M  US 900.1.0                                                              -0
hut     ss to-a aM a1sau .u                                      4        242t-S   -3  -         ,0  -M  -n3-1   ,U1.13UW1-GiMVSS                                 41bAJ     M 10 WX176SA     -     -1
foul                                          M, wmu  is  a43 M- w .,1.3.13 .-.m- .w7-7-xoS au'M-327 am  n i-O c-                                           ..02mv-, ;7   a                            . -   ,   I    .       
mtmaasiuzuwmeinmt  31   31   i?   40   ES   90.31   34   14    6    39   90..    .    9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



- 58 -                        TABLE 3.10
SAZIL
Fan=" Sammy - _MOI  cCEoR - PROJEC
Xstimated Sebmimla of Disbhrsints
(08$ m112lon)
IBRD                     Estimated          Estlmated          Bstirnted
Fiscal Year                   Semester           Cumulative       Cuoulative
end Semester                Disbursements         Amouv.ts       as Z of Total
1986
December 31, 1985               18.0 9              18.0                9
June 30, 1986                    7.0                25.0              12
1987
December 31, 1986               10.0                35.0              17
June 30, 1987                   15.0                50.0              25
1988
December 31, 1987               25.0                75.0              37
June 30, 1988                   25.0               100.0              50
1989
December 31, 1988               30.0              130.0               65
June 30, 1989                   30.0               160.0              80
1990
December 31, 1989               20.0               180.0              90
June 30, 1990                   10.0               190.0              95
1991
Deceuber 31, 1990                5.0              195.0               97
June 30, 1991                    3.0               198.0              99
1992
December 31, 1991                2.0              200.0              100
Assumptions
Loan Effectiveness: September 1985
Loan Closing Date:   December 31, 1991
I/  Includng initial deposit of US$15 ailli-. into the Special Account.
Source: Mission estimates
March 1985



I 1 A 2 I L
VIS DS R AL   t AI LV1          -  AI *P 0 9 T    Co a a kI DO  it -  F a O * A CT
I F r s A '/-I n e o n e  S t a       
WIIL&4!J -  on comeh115 Statment
1CrS btillie - he IS8Sd 395 alues)
1919        1980         1989         1982         1983       1384 2,       I985         1936         3987       M98          1969
A   C   T   U   A   L                      Pr.liainy                *   0   A   t   C   A  S    T   A  D
leveflues
Freight                               1,953.5      2,175.1      2,066.8     2,167.7       1,987.5     2,216.9      2,557.8      2,859.6     3,059.9      3,265.8      3,463.6
Passenger                                81.3         66.8         61.6         71.1        54,5         41.8         39.3         37.3        35.7         33.8         32.4
Other                                    56.5         64.3         96.4        12864        96.9         78.2        106.3        106.9       107.3        107.9        108.3
Sub-total                        2,091.-      2,306.2     2,224.9    1;TM 713 T:9 2,3z i                     !70.4        3,003.6      3,202.9      3,0I7.4     3,624.5
Nerualteation Paymnts                      97.5      1 237.6        616.6       680.S        541.2        403.6        S36.5        514.8       501.3        491.0        482.0
Total Oserating tevenues                   r, nwa!10.T                            -). .T      Y1     T 21741.5 T        1;7,2T4.9    T3 W.JS     T 1.6T       3,6898.5     4,106.5
Kapenoee
Salartes and Vages                    2,248.8      2,044.2      2,082.2      2,113.3     1,561.8      1,3798.      1,U42.6      1,437.9     1,465.2      1,523.6      1,587.6
ruel                                    375.6        446.4        450.7       442.5        404.8        506.85       551.3         75.4       611 .        646.1        682.3
Materials, Spare.                       396.9        423.1        363.5        319.2       247.8        311.1        368.6        380.3       393.8        406.3        419.0
Contract Vork                           146.8        254.9        147.2        168.0        34i.S       173.9        196.8        213.8       221.6        235.7        230.0
Other                                   133.3        217.7        132.9        157.3       129.6        150.1        169.3        177.8        186.5       196.0        205.6
Total Workbns iEssenees                     3,310       1IIE2        3,1 T76.5    T3,20.      i2.TF        T.NTM        tii2 : 2,2.  2i75  1r 17 T IM         3'T2I        IT,
Depreciation                            482.7        415.7        400.5        476.1       530.6        650.6        875.4      1 129.8     1 189.1      1 246.5      1 279.6
Total Operating Expenses                   TYI1         3,70TO       T            TJ6          3,01.3I    3,S77,0       TNvU         1Y.M1i                      13,64.0T'    1hE
Worktig IcaeA/(tegs)                      (1,116.4)        1357.5     (335.0)      (172.6)       194.6        218.1       511.3        733.5        825.6        685.9       961.6
Operating Inceelc(Loes)                   (1,599.1)      (258.2)      (735.5)      (648.7)      (336.0)      (432.5)     (364.1)      (396.3)      (363.5)      (360.6)     (318.0)
Not Mon-Operative  Income                      47.1        74.3         75.2         53.4         39.1        27.2         20.5         19.2         20.9         21.1        21.3           a
Fi7nneial  "eee                              896.7      1,504.9      1,796.6        7717.8     1,244.4     1,592.3          4.5         22.1         45.1        76.0        307.5           w
AMIUAL LOSS                           2,448.7      1,"6.8       2,456.9      1,375.1     1,S41.3      1,997.6        348.1        399.2       367.7        415.5        404.2
- -e -  s -                                                                   -  n - - -   
Vorkini Itole
- vith noraleastion                     3.53          .96         1.12         1.06          .93         .92          .84          .79          .76         .77          .77
- without nornalitetion                 1.56         1.47         1.43         1,36        1.16         1.08         1.01          .93          .90         .U8 .87
Operating latte
- With noruailluatin                    1.73         1.07         1.26         1.21        1313         1.16         1.11        1311         1.10         1.09         1.08
- vithout normaliution                  1.81         1.65         1,61         1.56         1.41        1.36         1.33         1.30        1.27         1.25         1.22
1  Ixeludtrg come ter earvice.
! Pr-audit, preliminary figures.
SOuces 3FFSA and ulsilom estimtes
may 3965



- 60 -
TABLE 4.2
BRAZ IL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - IPORT CORRIDR - PROJECT
RJrFSA' Average Worklng Costs per Trafflc UmIts, 1979-1989
(Iarch 1985 Cr$ per ton-km)
Contract Work &
Salaries    Fuel    Materials    Miscellaneous        Total
& Wages                              Expenses
Actual
1979        81.21      13.56      14.33          10.26           119.36
1983        52.77      13.68      8.38            9.15            83.98
1984        40.61      14.99      9.60            9.54            74.74
Projected
1985        40.09      15.32      10.24          10.18            75.83
1986        37.72      15.09      9.97           10.26            73.04
1987        36.25      15.13      9.75           10.07            71.20
1988        35.00      15.05      9.48           10.03            69.56
1989        33.79      14.99      9.19           10.01            67.98
Source: RFFSA and mission estimates.
May 1985



- 61 -
TABLE 4.3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL RAIWAY - EXPORT CORRIDO - PROJECT
RFFSA I/ - Prolected Fund Flow Statements
tCrS hillion - March 1985 valtiei)
1985           1986           1987           1988           1989
SOURCES
Net Operattng Revenue (Loss)               (364.1)        (39b.3)        (363.5)        (36o.6)         (318.0)
Depreciation                                875.4        1,129.8        1,189.1        1,246.5         1.279.5
Net Non-Operating Incnme                     20.5           19.2           20.9            21.1           21.1
Adj. for Outstanding Normalization         (268.3)        (257.4)          175.3          175.3          175.1
Total Internal Cash Generation              263.5          495.3        1,021.8         1,082.3        1,158.0
Loans
- IRD                                    59.6          123.3          205.4          197.6           67.6
- BNDES                                  135.4          181.2          194.7          145.0           40.4
- Other                                   45.1           58.2           64.1            52.8          29.3
Government's Capital Contribution
- Payment of pre-1985 debts            2.568.7        2,555.8        2,541.4        2,017.4         1,544.2
- Other                                   37.1           5h.7           E2.5           79.5           29.7
Sale of Assets                               26.2           99.5           81.1            55.1
Decrease/(Increase) in Cash               3,478.9           47.5         (449.1)        (582.5)         (702.0)
TOTAL SOURCES                          6,614.5        3,617.5        3,741.0        3,047.2        2,217.7
APPLICATION
Investment
- Project                                135.4          292.4          449.7          411.6           155.4
- Other                                  561.3          670.8          078.0          499.4          343.4
Interest
- IBRD Loan                                4.5            3.7            2.0            7.2           2f1.7
- UNDES Loan                               0.0           13.5           31.7           50.4           62.7
- Other Loans                              0.0            4.9           11.3           18.4           24.2
Loan Redemption
- 18RD                                                                                  2.5            7.h
- BNDES                                                                  8.h           2U.7           35.0
- Otler                                                                                                3.5
Pre-1985 Debt Payments                    2,568.7        2,555.8        2,*540.4       2,017.4        1,544.2
Change in Working Capital (excl. cash) 3,344.h              76.4           19.3            19.6           20.8
TOTAL APPLICATION                         6,614.5        3,617.5        1,741.0        3,047.2        2,217.7
1/ Excluding commuter service.
Source: RFFSA and mission estimates.
May 1985



MDU &L RUIA? -    PORT COIRDOB - I)URC
NOM           al- 1ame  bet, 1979-1983
Gorrmat Talmos (Cr billion) ad Z Diutrlbation
1979               1980               1981           1982                198?
CrS        2     CrS          2      CrS         2     CrS           S     Cr$
ASSETS
Cash                                                832             1,011               1,831               4,813               9,390
Receivables
- Government                                     167               117                 189                 142                 564
- Others                                       4,100            IR,703              37,170              68,270             141,438
Inventories                                       7,110            13,284              20,441              28,964              56,123
Other Current Assets                                452             3,555                  324                 934              2 841
Total Current Assets                             12,661      3    36,670       5       59,955       5     103,123      t      210,356    -1
Fixed Acssts (Incl. works in progress)          415,282    96   571,795    95   1,133,523    97   2,341,915    98   6,077,366    99
Less Depreciation                                     -8,371                   1       33,323      3      105,246      4      381,889      6
Net Fixed Asset.                                415,282    96   563,424    94   1,100,200    94   2,236,669    94   5,695,477    93
Investments and other assets 2                    1,881      1      4,307      1       10,589      1       44,539      2      206,468      4
TOTAL ASSETS                                         429,824   100   604,401    100   1,170,744   100   2,384,331   100   6,112,301   100
- t     -         -                            -         m          -         -     _- 
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                               9,235      2    37,091       7       59,066       5     147,553       6     593,471    10
Long-term Debts  .                               93,315    22   165,286    27         417,901    36       836,070    35   2,767,831    45
Provision for Indemnities                            319     -        504      -          996      -         3,109      -       15,003      -
Equity 3/                                       326,955    76   401,520    66         692.781    59   1,397,599    59   2,735,996    45
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                         429,824   100   604,401    100   1,170,744   100   2,384,331   100   6,112,301   100
t_-t                                m         -                                     -______
I/  Including commuter services.
z/  Including earmarked funds *uch as workers compensati,n.                                                                                                P
!/  Including reserves.
Source:  RFFSA
March 19S5



BRAZIL
VKUAL  AILE&Y - EXPORT COR1,o0R - .POJucT
EFISA 1/ ProJected Balance Sheet.
(Cr$ billUon - March 1985 values)
1984 2/       1985          1986          1987          1988          1989
ASSETS
Cash/(Bank Overdraft)                             139.9      (3,339.0)    (3,386.5)    (2,937.5)    (2,355.0)    (1,653.0)
Receivables                                     1,169.1         315.3         352.5         377.3         402.6         429.5
Inventories and Other
Current Ascets                               599.0         348.1         286,6          286.7         286,7         286,7
Total Current Assets                            1,908.0      (2,675.6)    (2,747.4)    (2,273.5)    (1,665.7)          (936-.8U)
Fixed Assets (lncl. works in progress)        33,488.7      45,634.5       58,626.2      59,753.9      60,664.9      61,163.9
Less Depreciation                              2,166.9       3,042.3        4,172.1       5,361.2       6,607.6       7,887.3
Net Fixed Assets                              31,321.8      42,592.2       54,454.1      54,392.7      54,057.3      53,276.6
Investments and other Assets                     627.8          788.4         788.4         788.4         788.4         788.4
CVRD Debt                                           0.0         235.7         136.2          55.1           -             -
Outstanding Normalization Payments                  0.0         268.3         525.7         350,4         175.1           0.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                  33,857.6      41,209.0      53,157.0       53,313.1      53,355.1      53,128.2
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                            4,823.9          211.3         110.7         116.2         122,0         127.9
Long-term Debts                               16,347.7      14,025.6       11,832.5       9,747.7       8,102.5       6,700,0
Equity - Capital                              13,197.5       15,803.3      18,415.7      21,038.7      23,135.6      24,709.5
- Cumulative Losses                   (13,712.1)   (14,060.2)   (14,459.3)   (14,845.9)   (15,262.4)   (15,666.6)
Reserves (including revaluation
reserves)                              13,200.6      25,229.0      37,257.4      37,257.4      37,257.4      37,257.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                       33,857.6      41,209.0      53,157.0      53,313.1      53,355.1      53,128.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    56/44         34/66         22/78         18/82         .15/85         13/87             p
1/ Excluding commuter service.
2/ Pre-audit figures.
Source: RFFSA and mission estimates.
May 1985



-64-                              ANNEX I
BRAZIL
mEDERAL RAILWAY -IOT CDRRDO - PROJECT
Bank AssistACne in the Transport Sector
A. Bmghway Projects
1.        The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October 1968) was
instrumental in setting the framework for Bank involvement in Brazil's transport
sector. With this loan, the Bank reached agreement with the Government on a Plan
of Action which included, among other things, the reorganization of DNER, the
revision of road user charges, the reduction of railway deficits and the improve-
sent of port administration.  The project included the construction, or paving, of
sexen road sections totaling 429 km in four states. The project was successfully
completed in September 1972, about a year later than expected, as a result of
design changes and earthwork problems. Despite cost overruns in some sections,
total project costs were lower than anticipated. The audit rates of return,
ranging from 14 to 40%, were, except for one road, equal to or higher than
appraisal estimates (PPA Report No. 1026 dated February 12, 1976).
2.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970)
included the construction or paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering for
2,369 km, and feasibility studies for 3,256 km. The project provided technical
assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory capabilities of DNER.
Problems were encountered during construction, and the project was not completed
until August 1976, two years behind schedule. Final cost was about 6% above
appraisal estimates.  The project's audit rate of return was higher than appraisal
estimates (36% as against 27%), mainly because of higher-than-anticipated traffic
growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely by Brazilian
flrms under strict specifications and quality controls agreed with the Bank. The
Brazilian construction industry and DYER gained considerable experience during the
execution of the project, as was demonitrated later by the performance of the
followup projects (PPA Report No. 644 dated June 21, 1977; PCR dated October 27,
1976).
3.        The Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loan 813-BR, US$89 million,
April 1972 and Loan 854-BR, US$51 million, August 1972) included the construction
of 1,849 km and the paving of 681 km of roads designed under the second project.
Completion of both projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at the end of
1977. Inadequate detailed engineering and price escalation forecasts led to
substantial cost overruns. Audit rates of return, however, were considerably
above appraisal estimates: 45% and 29% against 25Z and 161 respectively (PCR
dated May 30, 1978; PPAR No. 2571 dated June 8, 1979).
4.        The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR, US$110 million, January 1975)
set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation and
strengthening. The project included (a) construction and upgrading of 612 km of
federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation programs in the
States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical assistance to DNER to
improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a weighing station program



- 65 -                             ANNEX 1
(44 stations); and (d) detailed engineering for road construction, upgrading and
rehabilitation, and feasibility studies for three new highways totaling about 900
km. The project, which was affected by cost overruns in civil works and delays in
the implementation of the weighing station program and of the highway
rehabilitation program in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, was completed at the
end of 1984.
5.        The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August 1978)
includes (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of paved federal highways and
execution of detailed engineering for another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works;
(b) a highway maintenance and rehabilitation program in the State of Parana;
(c) Phase II of the weighing stations program (30 weighing stations); and (d)
consulting services to the Road Research Institute to carry out research in
pavement overlay design, and to GEIPOT to complete research studies necessary to
improve the Highway Design and Maintenance Model.  Both the federal highway
rehabilitation program, halted in 1980 for a year, and the Parana program were
adversely affected by lack of counterpart funds up to mid-1983.  With the support
of the Bank's Special Action Program (SAP), implementation of the programs
accelerated in 1984; both have recently been completed, about two years behind
schedule. The weighing station program had to be reformulated to reduce costs; it
is scheduled for completion by the end of 1985. DNER's Pavement Research Program
was also hampered by restricted budgetary allocations, but a method for the design
of pavement overlays has been developed and is being implemented. The project, as
a whole, is expected to be completed by the end of 1985.
6.        The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project
(Loan 2062-BR, US$240 million, November 1981) consists of (a) the construction of
the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about 1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway, 364-BR;
(b) a program for strengthening Rondonia State Highway Department, including con-
struction of district buildings, acquisition of equipment and technical assist-
ance; and (c) two feeder roads programs with Brazil's National Economic Develop-
ment Bank (BNDES) in the States of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, which include con-
struction and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads. The Northwest highway con-
struction, after initial delays due to inadequate funding, was completed, with the
support of SAP, at the end of 1984, i.e., one year ahead of schedule, and at a
cost well below appraisal estimate.  The component for strengthening of the DER of
Rondonia, however, about two years behind the original schedule, will not be com-
pleted before mid-1987. The two feeder roads programs were completed recently,
about six months behind schedule.
7.        The Federal Highway Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million, May
1984) provides assistance to DNER in the implementation of a series of programs
included in its 1984-1987 Investment Plan. The components of the Plan supported
by the project are: (a) highway rehabilitation program for the federal highway
network; (b) road safety program covering improvement of high accident locations,
pavement marking, highway safety canpaign and purchase of equipment for highway
police; (c) training program for DNER and state highway maintenance personnel; and
(d) technical assistance for a pavement management system, an equipment management
system, and highway research studies.  The loan became effective in November 1984;
the implementation of most components is on schedule.



-66-                               ANNEX 1
3. Peeder Roads Projects
8.        The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million,
March 1976) represented an innovative approach in channeling Bank support for the
Improvement of secondary and access roads, which, in Brazil, is the responsibility
of the states and the monicipalities.  The project was conceived as a line of
credit extended to Brazil's National Economic Development Bank, BNDE, to finance a
portion of subloans made by BNDE to DERs or to municipal consortia to carry out
secondary and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production. Subpro-
jects were prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well publicized
criteria embodied in a manual. The loan financed 17 subprojects in 12 States,
comprising 5,400 km of roads and 80 separate bridges. The project was slow in
starting because beneficiaries took more time than anticipated to familiarize
themselves with the procedures and to establish their working relationships with
BNDE. It also had to be reformulated in 1981 as a result of previous devaluations
of the Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional in which subloans were made;
the scope of some subprojects was reduced, and additional financing was provided
under the second loan (para. 9). By the end of 1982, lack of funds in the States
again drove the project to a near halt. With SAP support, however, it was com-
pleted in June 1984, although an amount of about US$5 million remained undisbursed
and had to be canceled.
9.        The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million, June
1979) was intended to provide continuity to the program assisted by the first
project. The loan is financing 14 subprojects in 13 States, comprising 3,800 km
of roads and 360 separate bridges, in addition to having provided supplementary
financing to some subprojects included in the first project. The project faced
about the same difficulties as the first project, and is also benefiting from SAP
support. Works are about 75% completed, and project completion is expected by the
end of 1987, i.e., about 18 months behind schedule.
10.       The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million, December
1982) supports the continuation of the National Feeder Roads Program, administered
by BNDES 1/, as well as significant policy development and institution-building
efforts for BNDES.  The project consists of the provision of subloans for con-
struction, improvement or rehabilitation of a total of approximately 8,000 km of
roads, for a total cost of about US$500 million, over the period 1983-mid-1989,
including technical assistance for advisory services and training of staff to
improve the maintenance capability of borrowers. The startup of tnle project in
1983-1984 was delayed as a result of the very restricted capacity of the States to
borrow, and of the political events which affected the transition to the new
Government. Four subprojects have been approved by the Bank as of the end of
February 1985 and are in early implementation stages. Other subprojects are being
prepared. The strengthening of BNDES' management has also been delayed by a
reorganization of the department of BNDES responsible for the administration of
the project.
/ In 1982, Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) became Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES).



-67-                               ANNEX I
Although substantial analytical work was done to prepare for policy foruilation
and action plauning for maintenance of State and municipal roads, the former
Government did not complete this policy component as scheduled.
C. Port Project
11.       The Santos Port Project (Loan 756-BR, US$45 million, 1971) assisted the
Santo. Port Authority in constructing a container terminal and some 53 km of rail-
way lines as veil as in engineering and management studies. In addition, the loan
provided for consulting services for improvement of the National Department of
Ports and Waterways, which led to the creation of PORTOBRAS, and for a Port Master
Plan Study. After substantial delays in implementation, involving changes in
project scope and large cost overruns, the project was completed and the loan
closed officially in 1980 (PPAR No. 4495 dated May 16, 1983).
D. Railway Projects
12.       The First Railway Project (Loan 786-BR, US$46.0 million, 1971) was to
finance the railway portion of the MBR (Mineragoes Bras ileiras Reunidas) iron ore
project (partly financed by Loan 787-BR) to carry 10-12 million tons of iron ore
annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba ocean port terminal. Although
traffic started as planned in July 1973, it was hindered by operational problems,
such as derailments on the Central Line, whose rehabilitation (financed by RFFSA)
took longer than expected. Also, delays were encountered in the bridge strength-
ening program and in completing new workshops. The traffic situation improved in
1974, reaching the forecast level by the end of the year. The project was also to
assist the railway in promoting more profit-oriented activities and to stimulate
better management. However, the project did not address the institutional issues
of RFYSA, and, in the end, the Bank's dialogue with the Government on this subject
had to take place largely outside the loan's context. The project was completed
in December 1977, about three years behind schedule (PPAR No. 4258 dated December
30, 1982).
13.       The Second Railway Project (Loan 1074-BR, US$175.0 million, January
1975) financed the first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979 investment plan and, in
addition, included a program of technical assistance. The mAin objectives were to
enable RFFSA to meet future demands, particularly in transporting iron ore and
steel products in the Central, and agricultural products in the Southern, regions.
Assistance was also provided for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
suburban passenger services in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. In addition to track
rehabilitation, the project included purchase of signaling and telecommunications
equipment and rolling stock for the suburban services in Rio and Sao Paulo, as
well as workshop equipment. The project was completed in December 1981, about two
and a half years behind schedule. In retrospect, it appears that the project,
which included a large number of individual projects for a total estimated cost of
about US$3.2 billion, was too large for the railway to implement, and the time
schedule was clearly too optilistic.  Many components had to be reformulated
and/or postponed. For institutional development, the measures and actions which
were essentially internal to RFFSA were successful.  Regarding broader questions
of policies and relationships with the Federal Government, the difficulties
iavolved were underestimated, and the appraisal objectives were mostly not
achieved (PCR issued on June 22, 1983).



-68 -                              ANNEX 1
14.       The Third Railway ProJect (Loan 1171-BR, US$75.0 million, October 1975)
financed the first two years of PEPASA's 1975-1979 investment plan. The objec-
tives of the loan were to: (a) rehabilitate and, as necessary, expand the system;
(b) improve the operational and financial performance of FEPASA; (c) improve
suburban passenger servlces in the Sao Paulo area; and (d) strengthen urban
transport coordination in the Sao Paulo area. During implementation, it soon
became evident that the program was too large for FEPASA, which, in any case,
lacked the necessary funds. In mid-1977, the Bank and FEPASA agreed to redefine
the project. However, the redefinition was complicated by the fact that the lorAn
funds were thinly spread over a large number of items for which the bidding pro-
cess was already advanced; redefinition was completed only in early 1980. The
implementation of the redefined project progressed satisfactorily until its com-
pletion in October 1983 (PCR issued on June 29, 1984).
March 1985



-69-                               ANNEX 2
DBRZIL
FEDERAL R&IMA  -   PORT COUD    - PROJECT
1PFSM's Freight Traffic Forecasts
1.        RFFSA's freight traffic forecasts have been based upon extensive market
surveys and specific commodity studies, carried out by RFFSA with assistance from
GEIPOT and individual experts. The present annex summarizes the conclusions of
these studies and the related forecasts for MFFSA's major commodities which,
together, represent about 90% of its total traffic.
A.   Petroleum  Products
2.        Brazil's maJor oil refinery centers are located in the vicinity of
Curitiba, in the Parana corridor; Enbiricu, near Belo Horizonte, in the
Goias-Minas Gerais corridor; and in Sao Paulo. The refineries are supplied with
Brazilian and imported oil through pipelines. Petroleum derivatives are shipped
to primary distribution centers generally served by rail. The country's annual
consumption of petroleum products increased at an average rate of 4% during the
second half of the 1970s and declined by 4.8% in 1980-1983. Substitution of
alcohol for gasoline and the economic recession have been major factors; diesel
oil consumption continued to increase in the 1970s and then stabilized during the
recession. RFFSA's traffic of petroleum products, however, has been increasing
rapidly, at average annual rates of 7.3% and 12.8% in tons and ton-km respectively
during 1975-1984. RFFSA has been transporting increasing volumes, on much longer
hauls, to the developing regions in the interior of the country. With the
expected economic recovery and further development in the interior, total demand
for petroleum products is expected to grow at an average rate of 3Z p.a. during
the second half of the 1980s, and RFFSA's traffic to increase at a slightly higher
rate, 3.9% p.a. in tons and 4.5% p.a. in ton-km.
3.        In the Parana corridor, the demand for petroleum products is expected to
increase at an average 4.0% per annum in 1983-1990 and 2.0% thereafter; RFFSA's
traffic in the corridor system would increase slightly more rapidly (4.8% and 2.3%
respectively in ton-km) as a result of the increasing proportion of longer hauls.
In the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor, the demand is expected to increase at a
similar rate of 4% p.a., but RFFSA's traffic would increase at the higher rate of
5.2% p.a. until 1990 since Goias and Brasilia would be increasingly supplied from
the Embiricu refiaery instead of the one in Sao Paulo.
B.  Alcohol
4.        Alcohol, which is mainly used as automotive fuel either alone or mixed
with gasoline, is produced mainly in the State of Sao Paulo and in North Parana
from sugar cane. It is transported to the refineries and to the petroleum product
distribution centers for mixing with gasoline.  The production of alcohol has
increased drastically in the last five years at annual rates over 35% and reached
about eight million i3 in 1983. RFFSA started to participate in this transport
in 1980; in 1984, its traffic of alcohol had already reached one million tons.
This traffic is iaportant in the two corridors of Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais.
Alcohol produced in North Parana is shipped to Curitiba and further south to Porto



-70-                                ANNEX 2
Alegre; RFFSA also supplies Belo Horizonte, Brasilia and Goiania with alcohol
produced in the State of Sao Paulo. RFFSA has plans to increase its participation
in both traffics, which is currently on the order of 50%, in order to better
utilize its trains of petroleum products on their return hauls. Its traffic of
alcohol is expected to increase at annual rates of 15% and 10% respectively in the
Parana and Goias-Minas Gerais corridors during the second half of the 1980s, and
at 4% and 3Z p.a. thereafter.
C.  COal
5.        Coal, which is mined in the States of Santa Catarina dud Rio Grande do
Sul, is supplied, in particular, to cement plants located in Parana, Sao Paulo,
and Minas Gerais.  Coal is transported to Parana and Sao Paulo partly by rail and
partly by coastal shipping; it is shipped to Minas Gerais through the ports of Rio
de Janeiro and Vitoria and then by rail. The demand for coal by the cement
industry is expected to increase rapidly as a result of the ongoing conversion
from fuel oil to coal in a number of plants; it is estimated that it would
increase by over 15% in Parana and Sao Paulo, and by about 2.3% in Minas Gerais
during 1984-1990. RFFSA's traffic in the Parana corridor (and in the Tronco Sul
corridor), which is currently increasing rapidly since RFFSA is taking an
increasing share of the demand over coastal shipping, is expected to increase at
annual rates of 15% up to 1990 and 2.3% thereafter. Its traffic in the Goias-
Minas Gerais corridor is expected to increase at a rate of 6.3Z p.a. up to 1990
and 3.4Z p.a. thereafter. RFFSA's total traffic of coal is expected to increase
at an average 7.5Z p.a. during 1984-1990.
D.   IX,n Ore
6.        Iron ore is mined essentially in the southern part of Minas Gerais.  It
is shipped in very large volumes for export through the ports of Vitoria (through
EFVM) and Sepetiba (through RFFSA's Central Line) and to the steel plants located
in the States of Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and, uore recently at
Tubarao, close to Vitoria. Minerapoes Brasileiras Reunidas (MBR) is RFFSA's
principal shipper of iron ore for export (it Is responsible for over 90Z of
RFFSA's traffic). Iron ore exports through RFFSA's Central Line increased
constantly during the 1970s; by 1980, they exceeded 14 million tons and nine
billion ton-km. During the economic recession of 1980-1983, the international
market weakened, and traffic dropped to about nine million tons in 1983. By early
1984, however, exports started to recover rapidly; RFFSA's traffic totaled 12.4
million tons in 1984, and, by the end of the year, RFFSA could not, because of
lack of wagons, meet MBR's transport demand, which had reached the level of 15.0
million tons p.a. Also, NBR had firm contracts for supplying over 16.5 million
tons by 1987. The retained forecast of an average growth of 4.2Z p.a. during
1984-1990 (leading to the level of 15 million tons by 1989) is therefore
reasonably conservative. On the basis of the local industry's production plans,
RFFSA's traffic of iron ore supplied domestically should increase by an average
rate of 3.5Z p.a. during the second half of the decade.



- 71 -                              ANNEX 2
7.        In the Goias-14als CveraiS  corridorg significant volunes of iron ore are
transported to supply t&e fterl plants aroutid Belo Horlonte and the pig iron
mills located around Sert LtagB  and further north. These latter supplies, which
represent more than 2.1 *t1J&1oPu foOa of iron ore, are *tt essentially by the
trucking industry. The relL.tively short haul lengths (between 100 and 200 km) and
the lack of appropriate Ctt4joals in the Sete Lagoas area have, until now,
restrained RFFSA from a%Y tg0ifLcant participation in that transport.  Road
traffic congestion in art Qg,*nd ReLO Horizoflte, however, makes trucking more and
more costly.  RFFSA and ON   re c1rrently assessing the feasibility of such
transport; no substantt*1 ti1crease of RFVSA's iron ore traffic in the corridor was
considered in the foree*stat, readiae concluSion of the study.
E. Limestone
8.        Limestone is Vrd%ed ailaly in the area of Sete Lagoas, north of Belo
Horizonte, and supplie4 i3 l4ge vo0luuaes to the steel plants.  Transport Is essen-
tially by rail.  RFFSA's trI%ffic increased very rapidly in the past (at an average
14.2% p.a. in 1975-1984) t'1t the development of the steel industry. The steel-
mills of Companhia Sida_t9ft      de Tubarao (CST) near Vitoria, and Agouinas in
Minas Gerais, currently 1md,t coapletion, will generate, from 1985 onward, sub-
stantial new demand for nr1      rC oE limestone.  RFFSA's traffic of lieestone,
overall, is expected tQ incetpse by 6.9Z p.a. (in tons) and by 7.2X p.a. (in ton-
km) during 1984-1990. II* %lqL  of this additional traffic would take place in the
Sete Lagoas-Costa LacerdA B,%piofl OF the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor, where
RFFSA's limestone traffirC ia expected, during 1984-1990, to double to about 540
million ton-km and,thereAftnt:, to gtow at the slower rate of 2.6X p.s.
F. Steel Products
9.        RFFSA's traffi- O*  steel products increased Considerably in the late
1970s  ,t a rate of 25% 2" Z% p. a.) as a result of increased domestic demand and
exports, and improved paItitziparLon of the railway, in particular through develop-
ing intermodal transporc t,e,  during the economic recession of the early 1980s,
RFFSA's traffic continue4 tv gr0' rapidly, from 5.5 million tons in 1980 to 8.0
million tons in 1984.  FPd 4SAI  participation in the transport of steel products
now exceeds 502 in the GDla4a,%nas Gerais Corridor; it is about 352 in the Parana
corridor.  The growth of thzt  traffic is expected to slow down gradually, with
RFFSA's share of the tr*`8PPtt demarld stabillzing, by 1990 at around 602 and 402
respectively in the two ortdors.  Overall, RFFSA's traffic of steel products is
estimated to grow at the aretaSe rate of 4.8Z p.a. (in tons) and 5.4X p.a. (in
ton-km) during 1984-1990'
10.       Pig iron is PrOd'L1,d inL SMalL plants, essentially ln the Belo Horizonte-
Sete Lagoas corridor in ^ n^ Gerais.  The production has been Increasing rapidly
over the past few years, UR1y as a result Of booming exports; production was
estimated at over 3.0 vdlic tons in 1984, of which about 60% were exported,
essentially through the rt o Vitoria, although some exports have recently been
routed through Rio de j8lpett,  1FFSA has plans to gradually increase its partici-
pation in the transport Of OL    iron for export through Vitoria from the present
40% to about 502 by 199Q, Vh4 its traffic in the corridor should reach about
1.1 million tons.



- 72 -                              ANNEX 2
G.   Ceneut
11.       Cement is produced essentially in three major areas:  Sete Lagoas and
Montes Claros in Minas Gerais, the south of Sao Paulo State, and Curitiba in
Parana. The plants in Minas Gerais also supply Rio de Janeiro and complement the
supply to Sao Paulo; those in Parana supply the southern region. RFFSA's partici-
pation in the transport from North Minas Gerais to Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paulo is about 65% while, for cement shipped from south of Sao Paulo and
Parana to the South, it is about 40%. RFFSA's share of the market has been
growing gradually in the last few years, when some of the plants acquired bulk-
loading terminals and purchased special wagons. Cement is now carried 70Z in bulk
on the broad gauge system, but still essentially in bags on the meter-gauge
network. Ongoing projects and plans made by a number of plants to establish
bagging plants in the consumption centers and to transport cement in bulk and by
rail are expected to facilitate RFFSA's further penetration in that market. In
particular in the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor, a major producer (t.IMINAS) from
Belo Horizonte, which is establishing major bulk terminals in Uberlandia and in
the State of Sao Paulo to permit the operation of unit-through-trains of bulk
cement, should contribute to increasing RFFSA's traffic by 6.5% p.a. (in ton-km)
in the corridor by 1990. Overall, demand for cement is estimated to increase at
an average 4% p.a. during the second half of the decade, and RFFSA's traffic at
about 6% p.a.
B.   Grain. and Grain Products
12.       Soya is produced essentially in north and west Parana, south of Sao
Paulo, in Mato Grosso do Sul, and further south in the states of Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul. Recently, production has also developed rapidly in the
Cerrados, a region covering most of Minas Gerais and south of Goias (para. 13).
The bulk of soya is processed into oil and pellets (and into other protein food),
generally in large plants which are concentrated in the vicinity of Ponta Grossa
and Curitiba (Parana) and in north Parana, and also around Sao Paulo; the rest is
exported, essentially through the ports of Paranagua and Rio Grande, and exports
from the Cerrados through Vitoria were started in 1984. Although soya flows from
north and west Parana and from Mato Grosso do Sul are well concentrated in the
Parana corridor, RFFSA never carried much soya in the corridor; it presently
carries less than 10% of a total transport demand of over 3.0 million tons. The
main reason has been the poor efficiency of the railway compared to that of the
trucking industry, as a result of both track condition and lack of appropriate
silo facilities upcountry. With improved track in the corridor, and improved
intermodal terminals upcountry, it was estimated that RFFSA would capture about
one-third of the corresponding transport demand by 1990, estimated at 3.7 million
tons.
13.       A large potential for agricultural development has recently been identi-
fied, through a number of pilot programs in the cerrados of Minas Gerais and
Goias. The region has relatively poor soil, but high yields are obtained after
appropriate soil correction. A number of plans for an extensive agricultural
development in the region are at various preparation stages, in both the public
and private sectors. In particular, the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce has plans to
promote large sLale production of grains, essentially soya and maize, and to
export very large volumes through the Goias-Minas Gerais-Vitoria corridor. The
present status of preparation of these plans did not permit them to be taken into



- 73 -                              ANNEX 2
account in forecasting RFFSA's traffic.  The proposed project, however, would
include an assessment of these plans under the transport coordination - Southeast
corridors - action plan. About 300,000 tons of soya were shipped from the
Cerrados to the Sao Paulo area in 1983, and exports through the Goias-Minas
Gerais-Vitoria corridor started in 1984 but were limited to 30,000 tons because of
the restricted capacity of the railway. Pending the conclusion of the studies
mentioned, It was estimated that, with the proposed project, RFFSA would export
about 250,000 tons of soya through the corridor by 1990, and that this traffic
would increase by an average 10Z p.a. thereafter.  Such export levels would be
consistent with the future throughput capacity of the existing grain installations
at Vitoria, which are currently being expanded.
14.       Soya pellets are shipped from the soya processing centers of Ponta
Grossa, North Parana, and Guarapuava to the port of Paranagua for export to Europe
and Asia; smaller volumes are shipped from plants located in Santa Catarina
through the port of Sao Francisco do Sul. In 1983, RFFSA transported about 2.5
million tons of soya pellets in the Parana corridor (of which about 1.1 million
tons from Ponta Grossa and 1.0 million tons from North Parana), which represented
about 50X of the transport demand; the remaining demand was met by the trucking
industry. The demand for Brazilian soya pellets in Europe and Asia is expected to
remain strong over the next ten years, and the Parana industry has an installed
production capacity well above the current production. The demand for transport
in the corridor is expected to grow at about 5.61 p.a. (in tons) until 1990, and
at about 2.9% p.a. thereafter. With the proposed project, RFFSA would be expected
to at least maintain its present share of the market; its traffic expressed in
ton-km would then increase by an average 7% p.a. until 1990 and by 3.5% there-
after.
15.       Maize is produced in many areas of Brazil, but major transport flows are
those from North and West Parana to Paranagua, for export and shipment to other
regions of Brazil, to Sao Paulo and to the southern region. As for soya, large
scale production has also recently started in the Cerrados, and it is developing
rapidly.  In general, maize is commercialized in small volumes; therefore, the
railway generally cannot compete with the trucking industry. However, when the
grain's market price is below the Government-established minimum price, a portion
of the production is commercialized by the Comissao de Financiamento da Produgao
(CFP); in that case, the origin-destination flows are consolidated by CFP, and
RFFSA has a better participation in that transport. This has been the main reason
for the instability of RFFSA's traffic of maize in the past. In the Parana
corridor, RFFSA's traffic of maize is erpected to grow at an average 5.0Z p.a.
(i.e., about in line with production) 1.ntil 1990 and to remain constant
thereafter. RFFSA expects to have a better participation in the transport of
maize from the Cerrados since the production is consolidated in much larger
farms.  Overall, RFFSA's traffic of maize is expected to grow by 7.1% p.a. (ln
tons) during 1984-1990.
16.       Wheat is produced in the southern region, essentially in North and West
Parana and in Rio Grande do Sul. The production of Parana is transported to flour
mills in Ponta Grossa, Curitiba and the area of Sao Paulo. Brazil also imports
wheat, in particular to supply Belo Horizonte, Brasilia and Goias through the
Goias-Minas Gerais corridor. In the Parana corridor, KFFSA transported about 57%
of a demand estimated at .9 million tons in 1983. Production and transport demand
are expected to continue to grow at an average 5% p.a. until 1990, and at 3Z p.a.



- 74 -                             ANNEX 2
thereafter. RYFSA and the CoiSosao do Trigo Nacional (CTRIN), a subsidiary of
Banco do Brasil, which is responsible for commercializing the bulk of wheat, have
plans to further rationalize the transport of wheat. It was estimated that RFFSA
would, by 1990, meet about 652 of the demand in the Parana corridor. In the
Goias-#inas Gerais corridor, imports of wheat are expected to gradually decrease
with the development of the Cerradom, and to be replaced, after 1990, by some
exports. Overall, RFFSA's traffic of wheat would increase at an average 4.2%
p.a. (in tons), and 4.52 p.a. in ton-km during 1984-1990.
17.       A summary table of RPFSA's past and projected freight traffic in
1970-1990 is given as TabLe 2.1 of the report. The following table summarizes
traffic projections by commodity in the two corridors of the project.
awn's Friht Trafic  a the Corridor. 1983-2000
(In milllion ton-km)
Goias-Ninas Gerais                Parana
1983     1990     2000      1983     1990      2000
Petroleuu Products         1,090    1,550    1,980       780    1,080    1,350
Alcohol                      190      380       510      290       780    1,140
Coal                         130      200       280      200      540       670
Limestone                    270      540       700        -        -         -
Steel Products               300      530       850      110      230       310
Cement                       290      450       710      240      480       760
Soya Beaus                    10      350       950      120      490       750
Soya Pellets                   -        -         -    1,120    1,790    2,450
Maize                         70      150       400      310      440       440
Wheat                        150       25       280      210       350      440
Phosphates                   180      310       500        -       160      190
Other                         40       75       140      200      390       450
Total                2,720    4,560    7,300    3,8       6,730    TW3S
March 1985



- 75 -                             AunEX 3
FLRM  RAILAY - EMaN Cin3UO - IOJW
Deign Poatures of tie Mm Corridkw Projects
A.  Pimeneut Way Works
1.        Infrastructure rehabilitation works couprlse the stabilization of cuts
and embankments, and improvements of drainagei  yyste, on about 653 km (SR-2) and
586 km (SR-5). The work is particularly urgent on sections MM - IBIA (130 km)
and Sabara-Capitso Eduardo (75 km) in the SR-2 region, where, because of river
erosion and heavy rains, the week eubankients require reainforcoemnt and protec-
tion   There are other sections (about 400 km) where drainage system  are non-
existent or require full reconstruction. For the sam reasons, the Apucarana-taua
(43 km) and Uvaranas-Paranagua (199 km) sections in the Si-S region need immediate
attention. The component works wil also include rehabilitation and strengthening
of existing bridge structures, about 1.0 km in SR-2 and 2.4 km in SR-5; rehabli-
tation of about 1.7 km of tunnels In the Parana corridor, and lnfrastructure work
for the lengthening of existing, and construction of now, sidings (about 17.2 km
in SR-2 and 20.4 km in SR-5) to accommodate longer freight trains and more fre-
quent services   The proposed infrastructure works amount to US$32.9 milllon for
SR-2 and to US$63.3 million for SR-5, including contingencies, and represent 24Z
of the total cost of the project (Tables 3.4 and 3.5 of the report).
2.        Superstructure rehabilitation works Include the purchase and installa-
tion of rails, sleepers, fastenings, ballast and switche on about 638 km of sain
line in S-2 and 953 km in SR-5, at an estimated cost of US$74.5 million and
US$73.1 million respectively, and represent 36Z of the total project cost.
RPFSA's program of selective track renewal in the two corridors focuses upon
sections whose present conditions would not provlde rellabillty and safety for the
forecast traffic. Heavier welded rails (57 kg/= and 45 kg/u) will be used on
specific sections where rail wear is high and on sharp curves, and the recovered
rails, if suitable, will be used In sidings. The program also calls for
substantial sleeper replacemeat with treated timber sleepers, now fastenLng. In
some sections and recompositlon of the ballast bed. In the work program,
preference will be glven to sections with heavy traffic and where derailments due
to poor track conditions are frequent. A sumary of the condition of the track
before and after the project is shown In Table A of this Annex. The rehabllita-
tion program is shown in Table B.
3.        Track plant and machinery comprises the purchase and installation of
track maintenance machinery and equipment (Table C) to improve the standards of
track maintenance, to cater to the increased speed and traffic requirements, and
to maximize capacity on the sections to be rehabilitated. Some of the machinery
is additional to the existing complement and some ls for replacement. Also, the
rail welding plant at Apucarana (Rio Verde), sleeper treatment plants at Azurita,
Goiania and Ponta Grossa (Caracara) and the permanent way workshops at Divinopo-
lie, Sete Lagoas and Curitiba need additional equipment to cope with the increas-
ing demand for welded rails and treated sleepers needed for the rehabilitation



-76-                               ANNEX 3
program. The estimated cost of this equipment is US$10.9 for SR-2 and US$11.1 for
SR-5, including contingencies, and it represents about 5X of the total project
cost.
B.   Signaling and Telecomnilcations Systems
4.        Telecommunications.  The existing block and telecommunications systems
are worked mostly through bare open-wire lines with some channels rented from the
national telephone and telegraph system to supplement. The open-wire lines are
unreliable and fault-prone under adverse weather conditions.  In addition, the
mountainous terrain makes repair difficult, increasing the Mean Time to RPpair.
The rental charges for the channels from the national network are very high, and
the rents are payable even for the periods when the channels are faulty. The
bottleneck sections need more reliable telecommunications channels for better
operations and for the safety circuits such as the block system.
5.        The telecommunications desiga on both SR-2 and SR-5 provides for an end-
to-end microwave-bearer of about 120-channel capacity. These microwave channels
would provide for (a) omnibus sections control circuits linking the traffic con-
troller with every station; (b) a train ordering or deputy control circuit purely
for train orderirg purposes; (c) a power control circuit linking the power and
running wing of the regional headquarters with the locomotive sheds; (d) adminis-
trative trunk circuits; and (e) a track maintenance circuit. In addition there
will be channels for interlinking VHF and UHF spurs for (i) train radio communica-
tion between the driver's cab and the control office on a selective call circuit;
(ii) data transmission for the OIS; and (iii) radio-controlled block. In SR-2,
the microwave, with its VUF/UHF spurs, will cover the entire Costa Lacerda-Sete
Lagoas main line route, but the Belo Horizonte-Divinopolis section will have pnly
the VRF/UHF links for the section control of the radio controlled block and of
train radio communication. In SR-5, the microwave saytem with all its ancilla-
ries will be extended from Uvaranas to Paranagua. The proposed workr. contemplated
in the project have been estimated to cost about US$13.1 million and US$12.0
million in SR-2 and SR-5 respectively.
6.        Signaling.  The crossing stations on the two bottleneck sections in SR-2
and SR-5 do not have any interlocking or safety equipment on the facing points.
There are several cases of derailments on facing points due to the lack of such
equipment.  Most of the stations have only fixed warning boards at the approach of
stations, while some stations have semaphore signals operated from a mechanical
lever frame. The absence of approach and starting signals constitutes a safety
hazard which could result in costly accidents. Besides, the time needed for the
reception, dispatch and crossing of trains is nearly five times more with this
inadequate signaling than with a standard of signaling commensurate with the heavy
traffic on these sections.
7.        The signaling design provides for three standards of signaling related
to the traffic density and line capacity. The system is designed on a modular
principle, adding superior modules to upgrade the systen in graduated steps. In
SR-2, the Sete Lagoas-Leopoldao-Capitao Eduardo section is provided only with
spring switches and radio-controlled block; the Sabara-Costa Lacerda and Sabara-
Horto Florestal sections are provided with relay interlocking at crossing stations



-77-                               ANNEX 3
and a supervisory traffic control (CTS) which affords a certain degree of central-
ization of commands and indications without the complexities of full-fledged cen-
tralized traffic control (CTC). The modular design would permit future upgrada-
tion stage by stage without any retirement of existing modules. In Sk-5, the
design consists of: Uvaranas-Apucarana spring switch signaling; Morretes-Paranagua
switches and radio controlled block; Morretes-Iguacu-Engenheiro Bley-Uvaranas,
relay interlocking with supervisory remot3 control. Costs are estimated at
US$12.9 million for SR-2 and US$26.1 million for SR-5. The signaling and telecom-
munications components together represent 17% of the total cost of the project.
The details of the desig.s on both systems are shown in the attached Chart
IBRD 27151.
C.  Yards and Workshops
8.        The project includes the construction of two new marshaling yards, one
near Mathias Leme (Patio Oeste) with a trackage of 9 km in SR-2, and the other in
Rio Negro with 6 km of lines in SR-5. It also includes tAe expansion and rehabi-
litation of about 20.1 km of tracka in five main yards in SR-2 and about 3.4 km of
tracks in four main yards in SR-5. In addition, nine station buildings would be
rehabilitated, and some freight handling equipment for these marshaling yards
would be purchased to facilitate traffic operations. Costs, including price con-
tingencies, amount to US$6.4 million in SR-2 and US$4.2 million in SR-5.
9.        During the last part of the 1970s, RFFSA made an attempt to start a
program for the rationalization (or centralization) of its workshops. However,
little progress was achieved because of the regional structure of RFFSA's organi-
zation. RFFSA has recognized the need to continue this program and wishes to
improve its workshop facilities through limited investments in the two corridors.
This project component calls for the construction of one new fueling facility
(Roncador Novo), four new locomotive fueling and servicing installations (P. Leo-
poldo, Araguari, Apucarana and Iguacu), two wagon maintenance facilities (P. Leo-
poldo and Araguari) and the upgrading of four wagon maintenance facilities to the
spot repair system at a total cost of about US$4.8 million. The component also
includes replacement of - and additional - machinery and equipment to improve
productivity in the workshops, at an estimated base cost of USe'4.7 million
(Table D of this Annex).
10.       The above investments will be paralleled with the closure of at least
eight locomotive and eight wagon repair facilities in the two corridors. The
closure and consolidation of the facilities would lead to labor rc :iction (about
150 men) and to savings related to faster maintenance service. It ias been esti-
mated that, on the average, the number of locomotives that are out of service for
mainten nce will reduce by about 10 and the wagons by 19. The major changes that
RFFSA has to introduce are: (a) the implementation of a management control to
permit timely supply of spare parts be.ween SR-3 and SR-2 regiocns; (b) establish-
ment of a pooling arrangement for locomotives to haul trains between Curitiba or
Uvaranas and Porto Alegre, thus eliminating the need for a maintenat.te. and fueling
facility at Lages and improving utilization of locomotives between SR-5 and SR-6
in the above pool; locomotives requiring wheel truing could be moved to -.he work-
shops at Porto Alegre; and (c) the implementation of on-spot wagon repair L'cil-
ity to be established at strategic points to deal with light repairs.



- 78 -                             ANNEX 3
D.               Faclities
11.       The project includes the construction of eight silos to improve trans-
shipments of grains and grain products upcountry, and to enable RFPSA to operate
unit-through-trains between these facilities and the processing centers and/or the
ports. In the Goias-Minas Gerais corridor, four silos of the following static
capacities would be built in Brasilia (30,000 tons), Goiania and Engenheiro
Castilho (40,000 tons each) and Patrocinlo (10,000 tons); in the Parana corridor,
four silos would also be built in Maringa and Laudrina (40,000 tons each), in
Guara-puarea (20,000 tons) and in Apucasana (10,000 tons). They would be hori-
zontal silos of a modular design consisting of 20,000-ton and 10,000-ton modules,
including the necessary cleaning and drying machinery (of a 40-ton/hour capacity),
loading and unloading equipment (of a 100-ton/hour capacity), and weighing and
ancillary equipment. The costs of the components, including pk:,sical and price
contingencies, are estimated at about US$16.8 million for the Goias-Minas Gerais
corridor, and at about US$15.0 million for the Parana corridor; together they
represent about 8% of the total cost of the project.
May 1985



822L
Ft8AA. *A3LV4Y  - UL u  ttlI3EM     -  MWlUT
T,ruk CmditttI bo y "Alm
-'-----''--------s--e---------~---P9tt t S                      E  C T    co h D I T I O                                                                                                 AC4-----------------------------  ------  V I I t A U L A *   t  A C
t a tt *t  I O 11                                  --ge
ifefl'               tt81h     1              Fast      s                   34111att          No. Of perail4Sets          Stelooqt       Sted    3t11s         S ptaers      Fasltnimss   littalt    Ieed   Lo2ath
A to0 Ka    VA        9gIa        42$1  p25%   Type   olepced   Caoditlon            Type   Condmlmon   P.8   total   TotaLt   type  to.lcA  Kalb                Kg/a   Type  Wo.It           Type       *$Z/       rA*/        Ka
lit-2
SU-tampeeImIm               9~~~~~~43-990  45      21          -     200      p           0                                            Ioe      I      t0o8o       .              34          As                        ti,st.        3            5       54
Pa1paoIm-t-b1                        z100-3l2  t11t         37         )2      44       P          0         hors                              20       24        as                        29          is                       U seil.                   So        90
tbhia-CGta  4d  MCis.                S03-7812    119       31          IS43  89        r P         0         Vora                             75        84     10t                         as 1        43       a *                             S
0"g^'  di tttoals-311n.poag           403-7tS4t1  42      S 31543      31      42S 100    r 7t1                                               * 3 It 10                                                4S t  15 kEr  it  to  ' 14 P
ot s sopolt6-ltmina                   74-JO       I's     OM/        tH        2   r/T           Al          zt          X        3                              O        ,       w       2s          s5    It                                             ,
051t   p01-i as                       1  -0        5       4/1          8       3 7/                            t                   55          3                 6,       2NN               5         4S    MTs4
Ilot;r*As,plta                       8-2          23      4I/31        A1      53      7          AS         va                                                 to ,0      7               21  Rt
Aftur  -Rabireta                                                                                                                                                                                                 55J 
rOt.l ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                     ~~~ t    l   at  131  1is  64  V   55  4
Total                                  sis                                                                                         21        0         1                                                                                                 9
ftl&Lt  lit,      t                                                                                                       3 
Cei. Carnetto-5A14                    1-SI?       ft        I        t'O        -   hlant.         0         ornt 1                                   1 32  2   32        1       .43 3   2            1             3.133       laut.                    is
t   un .  C a y ot y a - CpU .   C d . . a r d   19 0 - 0  O t   1 1   2SS0 0     -    7/ f l o o r.   1r                                       3 0n 2e                1 3  i      1 . 8 S 0   2 8                         3 3 3     it Sal t     .  
Sara-I. de cocil o                    582-64S     06       37         3oO        - 1Elast.          I        War"                                                                                      SI *            1.8sO       I 0                     )
ttatsleX4fi-"dS-o7   14 *S/57  200  -   */itian.    29    Vay3o                                                         *      1 3   Id                     5        0         1550t
krao deo Cccalb-c.  Lei,da           444-649              371                                                              * -too  T/tlaAt.  I  I/rn    1                         I 8Xi    a    31     S               l.533        41                     S .'
Cc.ct4TotzlF                                ISIfd                                                                                        Sl-40  it4         1315                                                                                              1'0 Tils. 3  onS    '  7S  ls.5
Cap. Iduar4a-Vqi9pigao                001-421      20    43/17         too    IDaO t.               2 ItlO                A _          3        I0      2         42    " '        2.33                *S 11            .          '                       3 S
th^een^"-tego  11ey   a*@*1w1  l?   5Z       3      9Z      7          30         xb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrCt             a4 24              2                                                             flat.                     SSi 1j 
Yiipaali.a-Vidp.     ,I-O u eld.     62  1- 848    21     43/* S   9   00        -   l  l a  nt.  29           re                                  d.                                  1    " I         3I       a      .1. 0    slee  .                              I ,1
fIslt4d po^ 10Id.-2teIlhs             048-433      20  S3131          100        -     /hut.        1        Vera                                                  0                  so       S                       11.430      l.oa.    1         5
Nalah lnh.g-P^rad.nt,  Nirati          *018-812     24     43/31       300        -   tiltiit.    23  12o                3*S                                      20                2.350   31 T1 I.S3 -u.                                        3 4T               33
Prede,at. V.1l4-1et.1  L180g5        671-624       22     31/31       Icon           Tittiat.   33             fi Wera                                                              .030   31          31              2.330   .212t3.                      3        I
Totla                                  283                                                                                          02      114        13                                                                                                344
Ion. 3o                                                                                                                                   7       l7        Z                                                                                                  s
lalisuazodo-Apaeavs                   231-216     SS        31          -     300   T                        wein r         e2                           3                          1      3           4i AS  8                                            1         33
Apuesw10d14a14                        14r1-12      46       3I          -      200      T         2          Wor n                              2        4 |                                3           4311    n                    r s                   3i tr
Aentear~ans-K&1                       582-510    43       37/45          -     30I730                         en                                                  3    1                    35         43S                         T                       SS3       41
lao...ljvo,amai             323~~~II-212    232   43         63       27      7          St        VeitOI                                     332437*                                                                                             3       22
IIerana.-lpga. hey      lOtill       02~~~6   31           3      91      1          30        Vr                     jA                                                      24          Si    *~                                            3        4
111- 13     30        AS         90       20      1          80        WarS                                       22       33u                       31           I
lane * Ilii4tiaeapl*                                                                                                                                                             *                        Ii ..r313                                     S s3     30
r rehua i- Fe ra a a.a                302-4      It        43         44      is       T        200         War.                  .                    30       a1s 2                                 43                                                  is 551  55  so
Ifdrrilia-Parae4..a                       40-4,    ii        43         99      q9       1          23                                                                                      21          45                           T                      35       32
rates                                  10                                                                                           21       II?       23
P1n3a1l1~l.~4oa,.n~u  339-249    230   63/11  97      3      7          10        v,r,    ~                          2       21       33      III       ~                *3/31    uIlr3.I If                                    31       104
slay-KnitsIt                         0.02      42       41          04       2      T          42        Woe                                         14.2                               2                                                               330
1ofn-Lag.a                    2~~~~~~~~~-290    292   43/57  49.s      0.31  y                     va,Wort                                              23                        2                                                              1323
Total                                  444                                                                                                   fiP 12 1                                                                                                                      7 14
bLtte 1IP  spi4*gl I . *rnv  oo34eil U1111    *ae1lti  fotlo.t,oss
lafeOt    l 4871  end  isiin tbtIeas3a.
8 1,1 983



80-                                             ANNEX 3
bEAZfl.                                         TABLE  B
FEDEAL RAXLVAT -  WOP   COUIOK - PU cr
Ttak Eha2bjJltatiaa PegrW    198S-1989
1985   1986   1987    1988   1989   Total
Region   Lines                                            (Track-Km)
SR-2    Lot No.1                           -      30      42      22      36    130
EYX-Patrocinio
Patrocinio-Ibia
Loc No.2                         20      30      69      24       -     143
Ibia-Gar,aa de Minas
Lot lo. 3                        22      19      29     124      25    219
Carvas de MInas-Divinopoils
Diwinopolia- Itauna
Itauna-Azurita
Azurica-Embi ruu                                 _       _
Sub-Total           42       9    140    T70        61    S92
Route 16
Lot lo. 4                        10      26      44      44      22    146
Sete Lagoas-C. Lacerda
Sub-total           10      26      44      44      22    146
Total SR-2          52    ThI    184    214         83    638
SR-5      Route 5
Lot No. 5                         -       -      22      33      46     101
Paissandu-Londrina
Route No. 6                      16      56    107       86       -    265
Apuca rana-Uv aranas
Lot No. 7                        16      30      26      20       -      92
Uvaranas-Ara nca ria
Lot No. 8                         4      20      26      38      19    107
Arancaria-Paranagua              _       _
Sub-cotal           36    106      181    177       65    565
Route 10
Lot  o. 9                         7      20      39      38       -    104
Pinhalzinho-Uvaranas
Lot 4o. 10                        -       -       -      10      40      50
Eng. BLey-Mafra
Lot No. 11                       24      58      86      66       -    234
Mafra-Lages
Sub-total           31      78    T25    Tl14       40     3
Tocal SR-S          67     184    306    291       105    953
GRAND TOTAL        U19    289    490    505        188  1,591
Source:  RFFSA and Misston Estimates
March 1985



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Umaw.                                                 TABLE C
133L RAMIWAT- mOST CORRU0. -              JE
Tra  KMcbMer-y a_  Track plac wqmipant to be Pbrchsad
Estlmated
le_                                                        Quantity    Baae  Coat
Us5 (000)
1.     Track Machinery and Equipete
1.1    Motorized inspection cars                                           807.0
1.2    Notcrized gang can  Incl. 2 trolleys)                    Jo       2.690.0
1.3 1   otrocized large gang cars (mcL. 2 trolleym)             5        1.066.4
1.4    Motorszed car  for aiding (inctl. 2 trolleys)            4            35.6
1.5     otoarized gang car for equlpment                                     72.0
l1.    Portable gantry                                           &           61.2
1.7    Portable taping sec                                      15       14180.0
1.8    Sleeper drillng unit                                    8Z          287.0
1.9    tall cucctng machine                                   42            75.6
1.10   Rail driliLng machine                                   43            55.9
1.11   Rail grtnder                                             9            17.1
I.IZ  Fribbolc srrewing unic                                   27           129.6
1.13   Screw splke drivtng unit                               147          705.6
1.14  Frshbolt/spike driviag untc                              33          115.5
1.13   NydraulIc  tcretching unit                               8            52.8
1.16   RaLl lubricacors                                       150          285.0
1.17   Track gauge                                              73          109.5
1.18   RalL proftle set                                         10           25.0
1.19   Track jacks CS cons)                                    66            19.8
1.20   MIscellaneous equipmnt                                              127 9
1.21   Track crane                                              5        [.153.5
1.22   Hydraullc gntry                                                     13.o
1.23   Ballast cregulacor                                       8        1.603.2
1.24   Ballatc caping and levellng unit                         13       & 000.0
Sub-cocal                  ITTo
2.     Other Eutpeentc for Earchworks
2.1    Truck Cb.3)                                              6           132.3
2.2    Sulldozer                                                 5          3 L0.8
2.3    Front end loader                                          4         233.8
2.3    Recroexcavator                                           15        1.195.3
2.5    Miscellaneous equipment                                             291.0
Sub-total                   2 1S3.2
Total Track Machinery                   15.982.0
3.     Plan: nEquipment and Machinery
3.1    Sleeper Impregnation Plant
3.1.1  SLeer planning and drlillng unit                          1          .70.0
3.1.2  Forlikft                                                             1 330.0
3.1.3  Trolleys                                                b4            o3.0
3.1.4  Furnace                                                   2          L00.0
3.1.5  Msacellaneous                                                        241.0
Sub-totaL                    1.L84.0
3.2    Pranenc Way Workshops
3.2.1  Ve clc milng machine                                      1           21.0
3.2.2  Lathe                                                     1           17.0
3.2.3  Universal lathe                                           I           15.0
3.2.4  Drtil                                                     L           10.0
3.2.5  N.scellanmous equipment                                               23.6
Sub-total                      so..)
3.3    Rail Welding Plant
3.3.1 Crane                                                      L         45 .0
3.3.2  Set of gantries                                           1         250.0
3.3.3  Set of roLlers                                            1          150.0
3.3.4  MultIpLe rail drdlt                                       1         280.0
3.3.5  Electric generat. r                                       1          160.0
3.3.6  Portable gancry                                           I         280.0
3.3.7  Electrical equipmnc                                                 259.0
3.3.8  Miscellaneous aquLtament and tools                                  445.4
Sub-tocal                   27 25 ..
Total Plant EquLpmenc                    3.525.0
Total TraCk Machinery and Plane Equipment    19.507.0
Source: RFFSA and Mission Esctimace
March IS5



-82-
ANNEX 3
TABLE D
FEIRAL RAILWAY - MIPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECE
Workshop Equipment and Tools to be Purchased
Estimated
Item                                                      Quantity    Base Cost
USS (000)
Fire prevention system                                         5         525.0
Sanding equipment, set                                         3         150.0
Metering system for centralized fuel management                6          78.0
Air compressor                                                16         192.0
Horizontal lathe                                               4          63.0
Milling machine                                                2          60.0
Radial drilling machine                                        1          30.0
Vertical lathe                                                 1         150.0
Cleaning equipment                                             1         100.0
Overhead traveling crane 2-ton                                 2          60.0
Forklift                                                       7         211.0
Bench valve brake tester                                       4         105.0
Shear                                                          1         200.0
Hose banding machine                                           1          20.0
Bending pressing machine                                       4         188.0
Electric jacks 25-ton, set                                     4         112.0
Wagon repair truck                                             4         320.0
Wheel press                                                    1         100.0
Cleaning equipment for parts                                   1         100.0
Pneumatic tools, set                                          21         203.0
Tractor                                                        2         180.0
Electronic circuit board tester                                1         105.0
Tools for turbo overhaul                                       1         273.0
Electronic equipment, set                                      2          23.0
Undercutter commutator                                         2          40.0
Measuring table                                                1          45.0
Torque wrench, set                                            12          52.0
Vacuum impregnator                                             1         400.0
Jib crane                                                      5          27.0
Centralized oxygen system                                      2          26.0
Centralized acecylene system                                   3          44.0
Parts for fueling equipment                                  105          39.0
Car pooler                                                     2         200.0
Manual tools, set                                             20          17.0
Miscellaneous equipment                                       -          284.0
Total                     4,72.0
Source: RFFSA and Mission Estimates
March 1985



- 83 -
RAJLWAY EKPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Telecommunlcattnr and Signaling Design for the Coiddon
SR-2 MINAS4OIAS CORRIDOR
.                                S2fT1    (Dim)
'.                    [E1   ~~~~~~~~~~~44 wn
ldO               jnt kkm   8km                BQtm
(13 mJ)    4km  (3Im)    (2 ONa)  91t          (15 gm)
b-~~~~~fl        S   - St  ,s-r
Gecmd.kmH00 7en I                   o__           ___         cML
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
8R-8 PARANA CORRIDOR
AAU  uW(
S, a Sat 9s1
rea  -q                                                           Wad Uw-27151wu ,ts
Ftql5~~~~~~~~( Wos)2n
.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



- 84 -                              ANNEX 4
BZIL
FEDERAL RAILWAY - EXPORT CORRIDOR - PROJECT
Fianucl*al Forecast Assumptions
General
1.        The financial forecasts are based upon constant (March 1985) values
(Tables 4.1, 4.3, and 4.5 of the report). For the purpose of comparison, the
operating results for 1979-1984 are also shown in the same constant values. Both
the past and the forecast Income Statements and the forecast Balance Sheets
exclude the results of the now separated commuter service. To develop the next
five years' forecasts, the following major assumptions have been considered in
addition to the railway's past financial performance and the 1985 budget.
Traffic and Revenues
2.        Traffic data are shown in Table 2.1 of the report, and  Annex 2 sum-
marizes the rationala for developing the traffic forecast. For freight revenue
calculatio4s, current tariff structures have been adjusted as follows: (a) tariffs
for commodities that can be carried in unit trains have been reduced by 2%; (b)
tariffs for commodities to be carried in mixed trains have been increased by 2%;
and (c) the 1984 year end tariff levels have been increased by 1OZ from February
1985. For passenger revenues, the average tariff applicable to the entire RFFSA
network has been used; for the freight revenue calculations, the average revenues
per traffic unit experienced in the different regions have been applied separately
to each region's forecast traffic. In calculating the normalization payments, the
present formula (para. 2.15 of the report) has been used. In 1985 and 1986 the
Government is expected to pay 50% of the normalization, the outstanding 50% is
forecast to be paid in equal amounts in the following three years.
Costs
3.        The cost projections are based upon operating conditions related to the
traffic forecast and being adjusted to reflect the savings and improvements in
productivity resulting from the next five years' investments and action plans.
Where past costs were the basis for (or materially influenced) the projections
adjustments were introduced in order to avoid possible distortions due to past
budgetary constraints (e.g., deferred maintenance).
(a) Personnel costs - for 1985, 1986 and 1987, an overall salary adjustment
of 0.6% per annum has been projected to reflect increases due to merlt
and longer service, and for the mechanical maintenance staff, a 0.9%
additional annual salary increase to reflect increased productivity.
Both for 1988 and in 1989, the salaries have been increased by 2.5%.
Numbers of employees have been projected separately for the main areas
as follows: (i) administration, no increase between 1984 and 1989;
(ii) track maintenance, about 16% reduction by 1989; (iii) mechanical
maintenance, about 6% increase by 1989 and (iv) operation, train crews
are projected to inerease by 2% per annum, and station staff would
reduce by 2% per annum.



-85-                               ANNEX 4
(b)  Fuel cost was based upon September 1984 prices and upon the current
consumption rate, adjusted gradually up to 8Z, to reflect the mwre
efficieat fuel usage of the unit trains. No price changes were pro-
jected.
(c)  Spare parts and material costs were based upon the 1980-1982 annual
average (in 1983 and 1984, considerable maintenance works were
deferred), and it was assumed that 25Z of the expenditure is rolling-
stock-related and 75% is track component. For the projections, the
track component was kept as constant, and the cost of material for
rolling stock was increased by 2.1Z per annum in line with the estimated
increase in locomotive-km (about half of the forecast increase in TKUs).
{d) Contract work costs were based upon the 1980-1982 annual average and
increased by 2Z per annum to account for additional traffic.
(e)  Other costs were based upon the 1980-1982 for annual average and, to
reflect additional traffic, were increased by 0.5% per annum.
(f)  Depreciation costs were projected on the assumption that asset
revaluation will be completed by mid-1986. For adjusting the asset
values, the differeaces between (past) actual inflation rates and the
indexes used in RFFSA's books for adjustments were applied. The
following annual depreciation rates were applied to the various asset
categories:
Superstructure  -  3.3%
Infrastructure  -  2.0%
Locomotive      -  5.9%
Rolling Stock   -  4.0%
Equipment       - 10.0%
Other           -  5.0z
(g)  Interest costs were based upon the following assumptions:
(i)  Borrowing from the Bank - 15-year loan (including three-year grace
period) at 9.5% interest rate;
(ii) Borrowing from BNDES - ten-year loan (including two-year grace period)
at 10% interest rate; and
(iiI) Borrowing from other sources - nine-year loan (including four-year grace
period) at 11% interest rate.
The projections do not include any financial charges related to the Government's
capital co-.tribution.
May 1985



-86-                               ANNEX 5
IUEAL RA_lM   - 0OE? COEIDO  - 1mDJU=
Ecoemic    l          of the T   Crridor Projects
A.
1.        The Goias-Minas Gerais corridor and the Parana corridor project. were
evaluated separately, following the same methodology. The two corridor systms
were defined a  networks of rail links (30 and 25 links respectively) and corres-
ponding road links,, rail and lntermodal terminals, and intermediate rail marshal-
ing yards. The present and forecast transport demand, which is described In
Annex 2, was organized into origin-destination commodity flows, consistently with
the definition of the networks. Comodity flows were allocated onto the networks,
in both alternatives without and with the proposed projects, on the basis of the
least user cost transport solution, consistently with DFFSA's marketing action
plans. For that purpose, train and yard operations plans were prepared, aiming at
optimizing railway operations in both alternatives. The commodity flows which
would not be allocated to the railway corridor in either alternative were not
considered in the analysis. Annex 2 gives a summary of the traffic allocated to
the railway.
2.        The components of the transport costs which would be substantially
affected by the proposed projects were calculated on the basis of the above
operations plans* They include train operating and capital costs, rail terminal
and intermediate yard costs, rail track maintenance differential costs, and road
transport differential costs, including truck operation and capital and road
Coste.
3.        The train operating and capital costs were calculated link by link, on
the basis of operating parameters derived from the operations plans. They include
estimates of the fuel, crew, locomotive and wagon maintenance, and locomotive and
wagon capital cost componentss Fuel costs were derived from an average consump-
tion per traffic (gross ton-km) unit available for each link, and from the CIF
price of dlesel-oll at Santos plus appropriate distribution coast. Crew costs were
estimated on the basis of an average cost per train-hour obtained from RFFSA's
cost data. Locomotive and maintenance variable costs were calculated from an
average unit cost per vehicle-km, also obtained from RFFSA's cost data. Locomo-
tive and wagon capital costs were based upon average unit costs, taking into
account the impact of the proposed investments upon vehicle utilisation.
4.        For the purpose of costing terminal and intermediate marshaling opera-
tions, the yards were categorized, depending upon their major functions, Into
grain prodact and other specialized terminals, mized cargo terminals and inter-
mediate yards. Aerage unit costs of yard operatLons were estimated on the basis
of operations plans parameters, including operating mnd capital cost of switchers,
capital cost of wagons based upon average waiting ties, and the coat of labor and
materials for yard operation and maintenance.



- 87 -                              ANNEX 5
5.        In order to calculate track maintenance costs, rail links were, in both
alternatives without and with the project, categorized into four ranges of gross-
ton traffic density, three levels of track maintenance condition and two levels of
infrastructure condition. For each track category, a maintenance program was
defined as necessary to keep the condition of the track over a 20-year period at
the average level of the category. Corresponding work quantities and costs were
estimated on the basis of RFFSA's cost data, and applied to the network.
6.        The differences in road transport requirements stem from commodity flows
which would be rail traffic in the with-project alternative but would be met by
truck in the without-project alternative, as a result of comparative efficiency or
limited railway capacity; and, to a lesser extent, from the additional road trans-
port distances to the railway terminals in the with-project alternative resulting
from the proposed consolidatlon of railway statlons Into fewer terminals. Average
truck operating and capital costs and average road costs were estimated on the
basis of vehicle characteristics and operating parameters and road condition
obtained through field surveys, and by using GEIPOT's data base on road transport
costs and the Highway Design Model 3.
B.   Corridor Prolect Bvaluation
7.        The following table summarizes the main results of the cost calcula-
tions.



- 88 -                                  ANNEX 5
Corridor Project Evaluatlon Data Sum ry
1990                       2000
Without    With               Without    With
Project   Project   Diff.   Project   Project  Diff.
A. Parana Corridor
1. Annual Costs (US$ million)
- train operating & capital       91.6      114.4    -22.8    91.6        150.7   -59.1
- yard operating                  54.7       65.2    -10.5    54.7         82.5   -27.8
- track maintenance               32.7       18.7    +14.0    32.7         13.6   +19.1
Subtotal rail costs              179.0      198.3    -19.3   179.0        246.8   -67.8
- road operatirg & capital        70.8        3.8    +67.0   133.8          6.8  +127.0
Total Cost                       149.8      202.1     47.7   312.8        253.6    59.2
2. Average Unit Costs
- train (US cents/ton-k_)          2.0        1.7               2.0         1.7
- terminal (US$/ton)               2.0        1.7               2.0         1.7
- road costs (US cents/ton km)   3.0          3.0               3.0         3.0
B . Coias-Minas Gerals Corridor
1. Annual Costs (US$ million)
- train operating & capital       81.6      101.6    -20.0    81.6        164.7   -83.1
- yard operating                  33.0       37.8    - 4.8    33.0         56.6   -23.6
- track maintenance               26.9      16.4    +10.5    26.9         19.2   + 7.7
Subtotal rail costs              141.5      155.8    -14.3   141.5       240.5   -99.0
- road operating & capital        40.9        2.8     38.1    151.7         8.4   143.3
rotal Cost                       182.4      158.6    +23.8    293.2      248.9    44.3
2. Average Unit Costs
- train (US cents/ton-km)          2.4        2.2                2.4        2.2
- terminal (US$/ton)               1.5        1.2                1.5        1.2
- road costs (US cents/ton km)   3.2          3.2                3.2        3.2



-89 -                                ANNEX 5
8.         The corresponding annual flows of costs and benefits are shown hereafter
(they are linearly interpolated between 1990 and 2000 and assumed to remain
constant thereafter, up to year 2004), together with the estimated Net Present
Value of the benefits discounted at a rate of 12Z and the estimated internal rates
of return of the projects. Three sensitivity analyses were made: in the first,
traffic was assumed to be 20% lower than the base forecast over the entire period
of analysis; in the second, investment costs were assumed to be 15% higher than in
the base estimate, and malntenance cost-savings were reduced by 20Z; the third
analysis combines the assumptions of the first two.
v-.unti  of tbe Oxcndwr ftxit=s
(8S$ ELlUon equLvalext)
------Co ias-MIns Geziis Corddor Project~-               1-ram CDrdor Proect-
Ran     Road  Rai                        Rail     Hod   Rai
Year         Operatin Cost Cost  Mblt.                Cerating Cost Maini.  miii.
Year Invest. Witoiut With DLff. 11ff. Total   Invest. Withxt  With DLff.  D1ff.  Total
1985 -11.7                            -11.7  -14.3                                -14.3
1986 -26.0                            -26.0  -31.4                                -31.4
1987 -42.4    87.4   92.4   5.0  2.1  -40.3  -47.7    127.5  134.1   5.0    2.8  -46.6
1988 -38.1    96.5  106.4  12.6  4.2  -31.2  -44.6    133.7  147.1  18.4   5.6  -33.9
1989 -13.8   105.5  120.5  20.2  6.3  - 2.2  -17.3    140.0  160.0  31.8   8.4    2.9
1990         114.6  139.4  38.1 10.5   23.8            146.3  179.6  67.0   14.0  47.7
2000         114.6  221.3 143.3  7.7   44.3            146.3  233.2 127.0  19.1   59.2
2004         114.6  221.3 143.3  7.7   44.3            146.3  233.2 127.0   19.1   59.2
Asmx fXiak NfV (US$)    IRR                            Nv (US) 
Base                         48.1       0.18             114.2                     0.24
Traffic - M%                 28.4       0.16              84.1                     0.21
investment +15%, Maint. +2M  25.4       0.15             83.0                      0.20
Both                         5.8        0.13             52.9                      0.17



-90-                                ANNEX 5
C.  SIxaalI=    wetm          aat
9.        The proposed signaling iuvestments for the Sete Lagoas-Costa
Lacerda and Uvaranas-Paranagua sections have also been evaluated separately,
following the*same uethodology as described in Section A. In the without-
signaling alternative, it was assumed that all other project investments were
made. Since the proposed telecowuuications systems would be partly used for
traffic control purposes, elements of the telecommunications investments
(about 30Z in cost terms) were included in the evaluation. The annual costs
of operation and maintenance of the systems have been estimated at about 102 of
the investment cost. Quantified benefits include reductions of train
operating and capital costs on the controlled section, resulting from reduced
delays for train crossing and savings in staff at crossing stations, and
benefits from increased line capacity.
10.       The corresponding annual flows of costs and benefits are shown
hereafter for base cost and traffic estimates, together with the estimated
Net Present Value of the benefits discounted at a rate of 12%, and the
estimated internal rates of rerurn of the proposed signaling systems for the
two corridors. The sensitivity anAlyses were made under the same assumptions
as those used for the overall project evaluation.
--OO-in   eas Corio                rka CorrLc.-
Ral    RPxd  RaLL                      RaL       Roed   Rail
Year         opeCtbsg ost Cost maint.            QPmi           Cout mait.  Hirt.
Year Ivest. WLit Wth  Lff. Miff. Total         est. Wile  With mff.  DLff.  TtaL
195   0.0                             0.0    0.0                                 0.0
1986  -1.5                            -1.5   -2.9                               -2.9
187  -5.0                             -5.0   -7.8                               -7.8
1988  -6.3                            -6.3  -10.0                              -10.0
189  -0.6                            -0.6   -1.1                                -1.1
1990         2L0   27.5  8.9 -1.2   2.2               24.8  34.5  22.1  -2.2   10.2
2X00         22.0  44.6  33.0 -1.2   9.2              24.8  45.4  41.7  -2.2  18.9
2004         22.0  44.6  33.0 -1.2   9.2              24.8  45.4  41.7  -2.2  18.9
WV (IBS)    mm            NWV (USS)                   MR
Base                        L2.1       0.24            40.3                     0.35
Traffic - 2)2                6.9       0.19             27.6                    0.29
Inetmsint +15, Haint. +20Z    9.8      0.21             36.4                    0.31
Both                        6.5        0.18             27.0                    0.27



-91-                               ANME 5
D.   bIecomnicatiom  Iuw.utct Kvaluwtiom
11.       The economic benefits expected from the proposed telecomumiications
systems are essentially reductions iu the train operating and capital costs which
would result from avoidance of traffic interruptions due to commnication
interruptions, from faster assistance to imobilized trains, and from improved
managemnt of wagons in yards. The corresponding annual flows of costs and
benefits are shown hereafter for base cost and traffic estimates, together with
the estimated Net Present Value of the benefits discounted at a rate of 121 and
the estimsted Internal rates of return of the proposed telecomummications systems
for the tvo corridors.
_IemE  bhhm_icm s
-----QUaHraLs OeDds Conidbr-~                       - PaBM z osiLdo
pAdi                                     Ranl
Year           Rail eODOMr   Hoim.                      RFi all  ng  ?Wzt.
Yea  TvasCnbt        D l ff.   Mau  lnesD  st C bt-s mTff.    ibal
1985   0.0                          -0.0       0.0          0.0                0.0
986   0.0                            0.0       0.0          0.0                0.0
1987  -3.6                          -3.6      -2.4          0.0               -2.4
988  -4.9                           -4.9      -3.3          0.0               -3.3
196 -0.5                            -0.5      -0.3          0.0               -0.3
1990               1.9       -0.3    1.6                    2.9        -0.2    2.7
200D               3.0       -0.3    2.8                    3.8        -0.2    3.6
204                3.0       -0.3    2.8                    3.8        -0.2    3.6
Asompdan                 wv (US$)  ,                 NV (S$)                   IE
asp                         2.4       0.17              8.1                    033
Tzffic - zD                 0.5       0.13              5.5                    0.2
Iumestt +1Sk Mimc. +2CZ    1.3       0.14               7.3                    0.29
liath                      -0.2      0.12               5.1                    0.25
may19U5



-92-                               ANQNEX 6
-L  u&ua&~ -XOT CORmOI -    C         zoJZC
Selected Docunts and Data Available iu the Project We
1. Aide Memoire, RFFSA, Ministry of Transport, Appraisal Mission, December 12,
1984.
2*  Decision Memorandum, January 14, 1985.
Consultants' Reports
3.   R ESA's Costing and Tariff Systems, R. Carruthers, May 1984.
4.   RFFSA's Operations, M. J. Prehn, May 1984.
5.  RFFSA's Operations and Management, S. E. Spencer, October 1984.
6.   RFFSA's Data Processirag and Communications, W. H. Thompson, January 1985.
7. RFFSA's Motive Power and Rolling Stock, D. Burns, January 1985.
RFFSA' s Publications
8.   Relatorio Anual, RFFSA, 1979 through 1984.
9.   Estatistica do Transporte, XFFSA, December 1983 through November 1984.
Repc.rts
10. Estudo da Demanda do Transporte Ferroviario, 1984-1990, RFFS& (5 volumes).
11. Demanda Ferroviaria, Perspectivas e Metas de Transporte nos Corredores de
Paranagua e Vitoria, REFSA, Novembro 1984.
12. Programa de Modern.,zagao do Sistema RFFSA, Estudo da Demanda, GEIPOT
(2 volumes).
13.  Programa de Modernizacao do Sistema RFTSA, GEIPOT, Dezembro 1983.
14.  Projeto Ferroviario 1984-1990, Bases de A"ao para a RFFSA, RFFSA/Ministerio
dos Transportes, Setembro-Outobro 1983 (3 volumes).
15. Projeto Eerroviario, Estudo de Viabilidade do Projeto de Restaziragao
SR5/RFFSA, GEIPOT, 1984.
16. Projeto Ferroviario, Estudo de Viabilidade do Projeto de Restauragao
SR2/RFFSA, GEIPOT, 1984.
17. ADalise Operacional das Principais Rotas da SR2 e da SX5, RFFSA, Setembro
1984.
18. Projeto de Recuperagao da Malha Ferroviaria de Belo Estreita SR2 e SR5,
REFFSA, 1984 (4 volumes).
19. Estrategia e Plano de Acao para Melhoria do Material Rodante, RFFSA, Agosto
1984.
20. Eodernizaaao de Locomotivas, Projeto Banco Kundial, RFFSA, Agosto 1984.
21. Modernizarao de Vagoes, Projeto Banco Mundial, RFFSA, Agosto 1984.
22. Oficinas, Projeto Banco Mundial, RFFSA, Novembro 1984.
23. Material de Transporte, Necessidade Fisico-Financeira para 1984-1994, RFFSA,
1984.
24. Facilidades Intermodais, Corredores de Paranagua e Vitoria, RFFSA/Transplan,
Novembro 1984; e Informacoes Adicionais, RFFSA, Novembro 1984.



93                              ANNEX 6
25. Projeto SI.GO, Banco Mumdial, RFFSAi Agosto 1984.
26. Plano para a Implementagao da CBTU, CBTU/Transplan-Metra, Agosto 1984
(2 volumes).
27.  Consolidagao Financeira 1985-1989, RFFSA, Janeiro 1985.
28. Ensaio do Esquema Financeiro, XFFSA, 1985-1989.
29.  Bases para Determinagao do Esquema Financeiro, 1985-1989, RFFSA, Outobro
1984.
30.  Politica Tarifaria, RFFSA, Novembro 1984.
31. Modelo de Apuragao de Custos Operacionais Ferroviarios, RFFSA (3 volimes).
32.  Elaboragao, Analise e Avaliagao Economica de Projetos, Vol. VII, RFFSA, 1983.
33. Manual de Estudos de Viabilidade, RPFSA.
34.  Diretrizes para Elaboragao de Estudos de Viabilidade, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
35.  Programa de Dimensionamento do Parque de Material Rodante, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
Documents for Project Management
36. Plano de Orgars.zaSao para Ad-1xzistragao do Projeto, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
37. Plano de Aoao SRl/Recife, 1985-1989, RFFSA, Setembro 1984.
38.  Programa de Especializasao, Racionalizagao e Fechamento das Estacoes, Termos
de Referencia, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
39. Instrugao Geral para Aplicacao da Normalizagao Contabil, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
40.  Estudo de Tarifas, Termos de Referencia, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
41. Plano Diretor para a Implementacao de um Sistema de Informacoes Operacionais,
Termos de Referencia, RFFSA, Abril 1985.
42. Programa de Arao, ManutenSaa do Material Rodante, Termos de Referencia,
REFSA, Abril 1985.
43. Programa de Agao, ConservaSao da Via Permanente, Termos de Referencia, RFFSA,
Margo 1985.
44. Plano de Agao para Refor;o-do Planejamento, Termos de Referencia, RFFSA,
1984.
45. Estudo de um Modelo Gerencial para a RFFSA, Termos de Referencia, RFFSA,
1984.
46.  Plano de Desenvolvimento Gerencial, Termos de Referencia, REFSA, Fevereiro
1985.
47.  Bases Conceituais para Estudos de Transportes, MT, Fevereiro 1985.
48.  Norma Geral de Licitagao e Contratagao, RFFSA.
May 1985



- 94 -
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGhV4AYS SECOR PROJECr
Olgonaolon of 1hen   od Tranmpo (MT)
ohm.. ~     Tellpa   l
thlBnrlTt L       2     &      |~~Aft
1 - - 1l
tePCcumn*dn t       ~            o
Depadmant  fLcand TAwa.
Sowam h3*Sy~~~~~~~~~~~~Tuar~~sematf
Wloul PmIgbh
A         I    <  0"I~~~~~~~~k&&%
Adm~  awwwf,  &"fftfw                        S tor
Dowinwil~ ~~  ~ UdrooNA;f  OM(owspaf bb
M*R



RJILWAY EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
O:g.Iban    "* FK*dsl RaKio (RFFA)
I~~                                                    
I~P1LN  PATEI            N?      OM~N                        (MtTI   Ob~
rI lVCQ KOO2Ni JlC ?ON1A   CO N I
L~~~~BA    OF INC
,   iiEs  REC          .            ,             l.   I    .                 |~~~~~~~~CREAM
w1 9iV9D~~~~ORPM                                                                                                        %Do  J 0a  



- 96 -
BRAZIL
RAILWAY-B3PORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
P  ImpIemepbo Schedule
C     _tr               196                       196                       1967                     19U                      19"
I~nn          1    U      r0    i      a     *     ri     i      i    U      iv     I    ii   atI    l       I     ii    No   iv
I ISktASUIC1I3 964Yu1AtCtidmOAlc
CA nOttlon-
t   D n Wd.9C1bM & St..Vhe.M Ofb.OOM
I'.0Sats. o.dlOna Oonl _.9
Z   wlO                                                     -    -k                 - -        -rln o                                          -    -_
3 Rhi,ion of runn. 
IrpgIn d  cs'S  Docerwh_                                   _ __                          =     _=                        _=_
4 Ca.wlfom~ & Eciin  at Sacng
PMe"~isof CIhdk" DoaCunWV
C4  hEnon                      d-5
& SnPP9RIC1ImRE 6IAHjtAIlOt4JfKS
5 PUC.ChCIC Sleevp
e, ftme  ralls_ __                                                                     __
r Pdaa d Dasrh
Rowton of BdVd Do__r___
Pximeor di Fronm
Repoa6on of db      Docu_                                                         _       
9IsP,cnenIoI soocv                              _       _             
Ret  cenonl of Ralr
PporoOn of cWg E    oCu:Wvds
Preon of bchoondg DocCgs
SAcwig
Pmpolmct on f Bcngl, Dotu-a
7PaSiiOho Of hdT  _
t   ldVd flM 1cnal 
C. NROCPIRANJTa MAIONERY
12 Pun1ac"&blWioI.~onPIoniEauc~en
PUKISOi@ of TKoCk MacThnw.
WoI  od B9Kcn Docsgn.'J,
CSU     &  Qdft 0 d 1-
D. laGNALUNIG   ISJCOhMURGCA3XONS
13 PuLxedi& I    fOlan ol TOc fCoWfo Svaien.
Plpaot.on   d BKkag Docr mos
Plvawthn of lc   Di _ocun,,mh
T - b nrj    8   C o - .I                                  -     -      -      a   
d o Ck . _4_ _ I I
riwano a co.-sanm-                                                                                                       -     a
1S CndiuLir10nhC1a1%9b ln&                                                           l n                 l     l      l           1 
14 fts0a- & TWW?IG1Oftt TeOf V0.0 fSyikfem
Pospool of Bmacng Docurwnli|
10PC. PoottanSQ. of         a'vma' F1 Icp.o                                          I                                I 
Tasting of CoNw,Wmo'g w
F.                                                _.05&        _IACII_S
laCAceuc.nd I goe 9cDcd a Sam    dng
2 Pr4sowlon GI BoaNg Docu,T ss_
G7. PI*Cwii    ICloEtsciogsso                                | ce                            [| on                                                      _
G. PN1mMOFOSAwL saz p   .                                                                                                                                          t      -2
Popool                                           a           -      -      -a-          -     -     a -cua                    -      
PamoraWin CoiwlddOOcww
macngFSs&m'ndmnVVf cm-7



.             . sa yTH  [                                                        / 4
n  A M I R I C Av_/               BRAZIL
o         oy                       RAILROADS                                       C6.
Regional Supetinwndencies
_    Adn' Qw    11 4 R._ dh_}
ianic                               NC&- _  I. Io
_   _ _                          FEPA~~~~~SA Bob W k 
,_                    ' @ ~~~~~~~~~"   Sa f EiVM
   116 %,t'hrom0
0~~~~~~~~~~~0
-----mA e 
PARGUA  /FEPASA
\e Ws ~~~~~~~-'-.    EIWA
-  - -  kuwnoinu - -idl hin
-a                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20*-
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 W:                                           M -M .W -



BRASILIA  *r                                                       A tABRAZIL
FD.        05*5                     umaRAZILC
*Pfis (ASt 1 1;                                                   REKIONAL S5_ERHTNDENC
tIlaliAwe                   SBLO /CRIZGIIE & JUIZ DE FXA
{--9aL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. Mu  a .  9C~
EL  O    I     An2i S3-2
CLAIMS  ~ ~ DiL sql A..lOa
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D. 7- X1CI,, & ID-
G OI                  Sa .SSE,UO                        .mo                     -SR-3
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m... luu &7o.
Ail <   N  A   S    X G   E   R  A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilt: "a)       2 
-6 o..d.. t.Cdlo
1.00_ gag.w EF. VIIORsA*NASN
k 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sf
(m~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~
MI  N ~~~~AS                           ER A  I/S
a    -GLIMI -        -
Camme
a:  ~   ~   '                IKIS ~~C                           2
"is co-coa             muse
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T~~~~L           T
*1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  W






