Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H325-TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 20, 2007 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 20, 2007, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
TAJIKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree 
as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,700,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
Page  3
2
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out.
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
3 Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave. 
 Dushanbe, 
734025 
Republic of Tajikistan  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(992-372) 213329 
 
Page  4
3
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Aziz Khaidarov 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
Proposals to amend the Recipient
’s legislation in a manner consistent with the 
Law on Licensing have been submitted to the Recipient’s Parliament. 
 
2. 
The Recipient’s sub-laws and regulations have been revised in a manner 
consistent with the Law on Licensing. 
 
3. 
The President and the Government of the Recipient have adopted decrees 
required to implement the Law on Inspections. 
 
4. 
A Decree of the President on separation of policy-making and technical 
regulation functions in the civil aviation sector has been adopted. 
 
5. 
A new cotton pricing methodica, agreed with the Association and to be used 
starting with the crop of the year 2007, has been introduced by the Recipient. 
 
6. 
A Decree of the Recipient’s Government has been adopted to implement the 
second phase of the civil service wage decompression, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
7. 
A Decree of the Recipient’s Government has been adopted to allocate in 2007 a 
greater share of wage increase in the health sector to primary health care workers.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in a single 
tranche in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Deposit of Financing Proceeds
.
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the following two 
deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”); and  
 
Page  6
5
(b) 
a
deposit account in the Recipient’s currency (“Local Currency Deposit 
Account”).   
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  In case the Financing proceeds 
are used for expenditures in local currency, upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall deposit an 
equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account.  All amounts withdrawn 
from the Deposit Accounts shall be used exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
C. Audit
.
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than two 
months after the end of the Recipient’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  7
6
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Page  8
7
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part B. 1 
(a) of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part B. 1 (b) 
of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
Page  9
8
6. 
“Law on Inspections” means the Law of the Recipient “On Inspection of 
Activities of Economic Entities in the Republic of Tajikistan” No. 194, dated 
June 28, 2006. 
 
7. 
“Law on Licensing” means the Law of the Recipient “On Licensing of Certain 
Types of Activities” No. 37, dated May 17, 2004. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letters dated March 28, 2006 and April 29, 2006 from the 
Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
Page  10
9
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
