Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18709
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2883-BR)
December 17, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:        Cruzado (Cz$)'
Rate at Appraisal:          US$ 1.00 = Cz$5 1.7
Cz$1.00 = US$0.2
Cz$1 million = US$19,325
Rate at Loan Closing:       R$1.00 = US$1.00
US$ 1.00 = R$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS and ACRONYMS
ATER              Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Program (CHESF)
CHESF             Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company
CODEVASF          Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
ELETROBRAS    Brazilian Power Plants, SA
FUNAI            National Indian Foundation
FUNDAJ            Joaquim Nabuco Foundation
GERPI             Exec. Working Group to Complete Itaparica Resettlement Project
IERR              Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA              Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IP               Inspection Panel
MOP               Memorandum of the President
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
VMT               Temporary Maintenance Payment
The Cruzado (Cz$) was introduced in 1986, followed by another currency, the Real (R$) in 1994.
Vice President         Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Director        Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Director       Gobind T. Nankani
Task Manager           Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT and IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2883-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                        Page No.
PREFACE ..................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................................iii
PART I: PROJIECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................................1
A. Background .................................................................I
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design ................................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................................. 10
D. Project Implementation                               ..s...................................................... 15
E. Sustaiinability and Future Operations                              .............................................. 21
F. Bank Performance .................................................................                                       26
G. Borrower Performance .................................................................                                   31
H. Assessment of Outcome .................................................................                                  38
I. Lessons Learned .................................................................                                        39
PART II: STATFISTICAL INFORMATION ................................................................                                      42
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ................................................................                           42
Table 2. Related Bank Loans ................................................................                                44
Table 3. Project Timetable .................................................................                                45
Table 4. Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................. 46
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................................ 47
Table 6. Studies Included in Project .................................................................                      47
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................                      48
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants ................................................................                         51
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................................                      54
Table  10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................................                   56
Table  11. Bank Resources: Missions ................................................................                        57
Table 12. Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project - Current Status .......................... 59
Table 13. Status of Resettled Families (August 31, 1998) ............................................... 60
Table 14. Status of Resettled Families (August 31, 1998) - Irrigation Area
in Production ................................................................                         61
Table 15. Expenditures of the Bank-Financed Project (Cost/Family and Hectare) .......... 62
Table 16. Cumulative Participation of Investment Sources .............................................. 63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Page No.
Table 17. Summary Financial Analysis, Illustrative Models ............................................. 64
Table 18. Crop Yields, Borda do Lago Projects (1993-1996 and Potential) .................... 64
Table 19. Status of Land Titling .....................................................    65
ANNEXES:          I.   Consultants' Study -- Executive Summary
II.  Aide Memoire -- ICR Mission
III. Comments by ELETROBRAS on Bank's Draft ICR (Translation)
IV. Comments by CHESF on Bank's Draft ICR (Translation)
MAPS:             IBRD No. 20448
IBRD No. 29024R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT and IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2883-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Itaparica Resettlement and
Irrigation Project (Loan 2883-BR). A Loan in the amount of US$132.0 million was approved by
the Board on November 17, 1987 and became effective December 8, 1987. The Board approved
a Supplemental Loan (2883-1 -BR) of US$100.0 million on February 20, 1990 which became
effective January 24, 1992. Total Bank funds available for the Project were US$232.0 million.
This report treats the two Loans as one continuous operation, the design, scope and scale of
which did not change.
2.    The originial Loan closed on December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on
September 14, 1 992 and the Loan was fully disbursed. The Supplemental Loan closed on
December 31, 1997 and final disbursement occurred on April 19, 1998. The Project had four
extensions of the Closing Date totaling 42 months. Because of special circumstances pertaining'
to the physical completion and sustainability of this Project, under an agreement with the
Government of Brazil, the Bank will continue to supervise the Project until end-December 1999.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani, Consultant, LCSES, with Peter Wittenberg,
Consultant and former Bank staff, and member of the project supervision team since 1996. The
ICR was reviewed by Gobind T. Nankani, Director, LCC5C; Maritta Koch-Weser, Director,
LCSES; Daniel Gross, Senior Anthropologist, LCSES and Former Task Manager; and Luiz
Gabriel T. Azevedo, Project Task Manager, LCSES. This ICR is being submitted to the Board
concurrently with a Progress Report summarizing the implementation of the project since loan
closure.
4.    The ICR draws on a series of analytical reports prepared at various points during Project
implementation including Kirmani (1989), the Operations Evaluation Department (OED: 1992
and 1998), Serra (1993), the Brazilian Government's Inter-Ministerial Committee on Itaparica
(1997), Management's Response to the Request for Inspection (1997) and the Report and
Recommendations of the Inspection Panel (1997). An independent Consultant Study (1998)
funded by the Project implementing agency, the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company (CHESF)
provided significant insights. An English translation of the Executive Summary is attached as
Annex 1. The Borrower (ELETROBRAS) and the implementing agency (CHESF) submitted
comments on the Bank's draft ICR, which were selectively incorporated in the text. English
translations of both letters are attached as Annexes III and IV. There were two ICR missions, the
first stressing field assessment and without Aide Memoire, and the second with an Aide
Memoire and revised project data. The ICR also refers to documentation in the project files,
discussions with Bank staff and consultants involved in the project, and with Brazilian
counterparts in the field. All internal Bank reports and significant external documents on the
Project can be accessed through Project Files/IRIS.






- .11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IlTAPARICA RESETTLEMENT and IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2883-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
l.    The ][taparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project was designed to relocate and
reestablish the population displaced by the Itaparica dam. Construction was started in
1979 on the high priority dam - which was not Bank-financed -- bv Brazilian Power
Plants, SA ('ELETROBRAS), the national holding company of Brazil's regional power
authorities, through its subsidiary CHESF, the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company.
The reservoir was to be filled in early 1988 and would alleviate the economic effects of a
massive regional power deficit. Bank involvement in this Project evolved during
preparation of the US$500 million First Power Sector Loan (2720-BR) wheni a review of
social and environmental issues affecting the power sector revealed that with construction
of the Itaparica dam already in its fifth year and dam flooding barely two years away,
CHESF had only nascent plans for resettlement of affected people, especially those in
rural areas. This raised the specter of a repetition of'the socially and economlically costly
resettlement experience of the Bank-financed Sobradinhlo dam in the 1970s for whichi the
Bank drew criticism for its apparent insensitivity to environmiiienital issues. Sobradinho
strongly influenced subsequent Bank support for the 13razilian power sector, Bank policy
guidelines on involuntary resettlement and the Itaparica project itself'
2.    The Bank believed a sound resettlement pro ject could conitribute to broader
development objectives in the irrigation and power sectors, support general poverty
alleviation objectives in the Northeast and demonstrate sensitivity to environment and
resettlement issues. Preparation and appraisal of this large and complex project over a
20-month period were hectic, tense and challenging. The t:ast-approaching deadline for
dam flooding, and technical, institutional and financial complications created intense
pressure on all involved parties as they worked to acquire land, construct four new towns
and about 126 rural villages complete with inifrastructure and services, design
sophisticated yet least cost irrigation systems for diflicult farming conditions, test soils
and plan the logistics for physically relocating about 8,000 families (not all of which
were Bank financed see para. 7). Appraisal was repeatedly postponed on quality grounds.



- iv -
3.    The generous and costly features of Project design flowed directly from the 1986
Agreement between the strong and politically vocal rural workers' union P6lo Sindical --
representing the resettlers -- CHESF and the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Important
elements of the design conformed to the requirements of new Bank resettlement policy
and key technical principles, and negotiations were highly participatory. The operation
elicited strong and divergent opinions in the Bank. The high projected costs per family
and low projected incomes technically ruled out Bank financing and seemed to indicate
financial compensation combined with relocation assistance as the more prudent course.
There was little support for this option in the Bank or Brazil. No-one advocated
withdrawal because the human need was great. Extending the deadline for dam filling
was not a realistic option either, in view of the urgent need for early power generation.
The Project was approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank in November 1987.
Project Objectives
4.    The Loan was intended to maintain and if possible improve the living standards of
the families displaced by the reservoir. The Bank's priority was always the rural
population and thus about 80% of the US$132.0 million Loan was allocated to irrigation
development and agricultural production, rural infrastructure and services in five major
schemes at varying distances from the reservoir. For the rural population successful
resettlement was defined as better agricultural production, housing and land ownership
conditions. Urban families were assumed to benefit from newly-established towns
providing better municipal services.
5.    Project objectives would be achieved through three components: (i) Rural
Resettlement involving five major irrigation subprojects; agricultural production and
social support; rural housing grouped in small centers (agrovilas); roads, water supply,
electricity; and education, health and social services; (ii) Urban Resettlement involving
relocation of four towns, infrastructure, provision of serviced residential plots, building
materials and new housing; public buildings; serviced commercial plots; community
infrastructure; roads, water supply and sanitation; and (iii) Fisheries Research via
provision of consultant's services to review and monitor the biological potential of the
Itaparica Reservoir.
6.    The Project's target population were long-established residents of the alluvial
floodplain bordering the Sao Francisco River and of the semi-arid hinterland of the States
of Bahia and Pemambuco. Most of the riverside farmers had basic irrigation experience
using small diesel pumps and many had received some technical assistance. Two thirds
of the displaced rural families were landless, and the remainder had only precarious title.
Living standards and incomes were low for most families but subsistence, at least for
those by the river, was fairly dependable and surplus production was sold.
7.    Several facts should be noted, to avoid confusion. First, the Itaparica resettlement
comprises a "full" resettlement operation, and the Bank-financed project which is a large
portion of that wider operation. Second, key numbers at appraisal (stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report of 1987) have in almost all cases changed through the years due
primarily to the inclusion of new families and changes in the number of plots available in



- v -
each subproject once works were constructed. The "full" operation covered about 8,000
families including urban. Of that total, the Bank financed 4,541 rural families which
included 521 para-rurals (farming families who lived in nearby towns). Displacees
included some 190 Tuxa Amerindian families whose relocation was treated as a separate
operation due to Brazilian laws precluding Bank financing, but conditionality in the Loan
Agreement protected their resettlement, social and productive rights.
8.    The 1986 Agreement established basic criteria to protect the affected population,
transforming all rural resettlers, including the landless, into land owners with a house and
formal title. An interim monthly support payment - based on a "basket" of basic
necessities and currently equivalent to 2.5 minimum salaries per month -- would tide
rural families over until their first harvest. This payment initially carried a work
obligation but in practice farmers rejected this understanding and CHESF paid them
separately, in addition to the support payment, for any work they performed. Land titles
would be issued some 5 years after relocation to prevent early sales and wastage of
Government's massive investment.
9.    Bank. feasibility criteria demanded stringent soil requirements and thus contracted
experts located three of the five major schemes upstream with the largest several hundred
kilometers fiom original riverside areas. Cost and complexity were increased by the need
for substantial lifting of water, transportation over long distances, and the selection of
sprinkler technology with pressurized pipes. (Nevertheless, the state of the art
technology chosen was the most appropriate and least cost for the difficult conditions).
Further, relatively large average farm holdings, resettlement areas remote from the water
source, and high standards for rural housing, water supply, sanitation and support
services, drove up costs.
10.   Implementation was to be phased over seven years in three stages: (i) urban and
rural relocation ending in December 1987, prior to dam filling; (ii) construction of
irrigation works in 1988; and (iii) production and socio-economic consolidation in rural
areas from 1989 through 1993. CHESF would be responsible for the first two phases and
the Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company (CODEVASF) would handle
phase three. New urban centers would be managed by their respective municipalities.
Bank-financed project areas/schemes were divided into two groups made up of (i) Borda
do Lago (lakeside) comprising 1,993 families (actual) grouped in small irrigated areas on
both banks of the Itaparica reservoir in the States of Bahia and Pernambuco; and (ii)
Special Schemes (Brigida, Pedra Branca and Caraibas - the latter recently re-named the
Fulgencio Project by the farmers in honor of their slain leader) comprising jointly about
2,548 families (actual).
Implementation Experience and Outcome
11.   The principal issues of project implementation have been financial, technical and
social/institutional. Government was unable to provide timely and adequate counterpart
funds and the project incurred massive cost overruns. Fiscal and economic deterioration
was already evident at appraisal and deepened as the project got underway. Technical
problems included difficulties in designing some of the irrigation perimeters and



- vi -
unforeseen engineering problems with the main conveyance systems bringing water to
the irrigation sites. Social and institutional problems have included the corrosive effects
of prolonged unemployment especially in the three Special Schemes on sites further from
the river or reservoir and dependent on rainfed agriculture until irrigation systems are
ready. Problems have persisted with the maintenance and/or delivery of social services
(health and education), regional security, roads and transportation, although there are now
promising signs of improvement.
12.   Like most of the Bank's Brazil portfolio in the same period, the Itaparica project
was profoundly affected by political and economic changes especially from 1988 to 1994
which saw the adoption of a new Brazilian Constitution, far-reaching administrative
reforms in the public sector, macroeconomic instability and high rates of inflation. Dam
construction was initiated during military rule but the resettlement portion was planned
and implemented following restoration of democratic government which empowered
groups favoring the rights of populations displaced by hydro-electric development.
However, once the dam was filled (1988) political interest in the Itaparica resettlement
faded and pressure on Government to execute the project, abated.
13.   Stage I of the resettlement was handled with impressive speed and efficiency,
involving construction of four complete new towns, 126 agrovilas and the transfer of
populations, their possessions and livestock. With new houses, electricity, running water
and sanitation, living conditions of most resettlers are superior. Moreover, social
infrastructure and services were provided at standards far above the original, although in
rural areas, their supply, staffing, equipment and maintenance have been problematic for
many years. Implementing Stage II was quite different. Almost eleven years after
farmers moved into the agrovilas and ten years later than the planned completion date,
this stage is incomplete and the productive infrastructure required to achieve project
objectives as originally envisaged is available to just over 3,122 families, 69% of the
Bank-financed total. While rural families have been well-housed and received regular
maintenance payments, this is obviously not an acceptable substitute for what was
promised and falls well short of Project goals.
14. The construction schedule could not be maintained due to CHESF's inability to
obtain sufficient counterpart funds. Moreover, the original Loan of US$132.0 million
was too small due to errors at preparation and appraisal in estimating and predicting costs
and exchange rates in Brazil's inflationary economy. A Supplemental Loan of US$100.0
million was approved in early 1990 (without changes to Project design) but signature was
delayed for two years, during which the Project stagnated. As re-estimated in 1990, total
project costs showed an overrun exceeding 100% and around 150% for the irrigation
systems. The original cost of the Bank-financed project -- US$304.0 million -- had risen
to about US$738.8 million by Project Closing (end-1997). At the same time, the cost of
the "full" Itaparica project had reached just under US$1.0 billion with an estimated
US$21 00 million needed for completion. Second, energy shortages persisted in the
Northeast despite supplies from Itaparica, compelling Government, ELETROBRAS and
CHESF to concentrate limited funds on construction of a larger hydro-electric dam --
Xingo -- further down the Sao Francisco. Third, fiscal and macroeconomic crises drained
Government resources and eroded official commitment to projects of any priority in the



- vii -
period up to 1994 when introduction of the Real Plan witnessed a sharp improvement in
the economy, and renewed Government commitment to the project reflected in better
counterpart finding. Fourth, costs rose due to late payment of contractors and their
demobilization followed by renewed start-up when contract negotiations were revived.
Delays increased costs, putting further pressure on the resource deficit causing the delays.
15.   Stage III involved the provision of agricultural and social support services over
six years extending to 1993. Numerous operating difficulties beset this program
stemming from the inexperience of the Itaparica farmers, non-completion of irrigation
systems and lack of farmer interest in participating due to long delays in project
execution. The maintenance payment exceeded the previous income of most farmers,
acting as a disincentive. The large support program was unusually costly but was unable
to reach a crifical mass of farmers. The Bank persisted in trying to improve it but
contracted services were finally terminated in 1997. Since then, the Inter-American
Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA) has taken over and shifted focus to
establishing farmer self-management bodies (cooperatives, associations and
condominiums) at the irrigation project level to ultimately assume full responsibility for
operation ancl maintenance, and all support services including social and productive.
16.   Outcome. The Bank-financed project significantly improved the living
conditions, specifically the housing and asset base of 4,541 rural families, two-thirds of
which were formerly landless and earning about US$100 per month. The non-Bank-
financed portion (the "full" project) covered another 1,376 rural families and about 4,600
urban families. Land ownership has improved in urban areas with about 80% of urban
resettlers novv possessing title and the remainder at various stages of resolution. In rural
areas however, land ownership has not progressed in part because of designed-in time
constraints on delivering final title to avoid rapid resale, bureaucratic delays affecting
processing, and political pressures on titling in an election year. In addition, P6lo Sindical
has opposed title delivery -- which represents a huge step towards genuine self-
management and independence -- by advocating the view that title signifies severance
from the project and the end of benefits. Only a handful of titles has been conveyed and
the planned delivery of some 2,600 titles by end-1998 appears unlikely. Significant
income restoration and improvement has been surveyed in several of the subprojects
where irrigated production is underway but this is a misleading picture. It is unlikely that
farmers can sustainably increase income from annual crops and Government is now
prioritizing the shift to fruit. Fruit needs credit and credit requires title collateral for
investment in the integrated, modern production systems which would see the desired
quantum leap in farmer incomes. Most importantly, the modest indications of better
incomes have an important qualifier -- Itaparica farmers are not paying the costs of
energy and all of them continue to receive the monthly maintenance payment.
Nonetheless, current income levels of farmers are superior to those obtained pre-
resettlement.
17.   The original Internal Economic Rate of Return (IRR) for the five irrigation
subprojects was 13% and for the whole resettlement project, about 6%. The
Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the Supplemental Loan adjusted IRRs for the
irrigation subprojects to under 11% and for individual subprojects from 10-14% down to



- viii -
9-12%. Almost ten years later, these are no longer meaningful. The IRR on a
resettlement project with large cost overruns, an average per family cost ranging between
US$103,000 and US$148,000 (depending on what is included/excluded) compared to the
appraised US$37,500, with about 69% of its beneficiary families actually producing ten
years after works were to have been finished, an implementation period almost double the
intended and incomplete operation of systems, will be negative.
18.   The Project is rated Unsatisfactory on the basis of: (i) failure to complete
irrigation works or land titling by Closing and inconclusive evidence for income
restoration and improvement; (ii) exceptionally high cost relative to benefits; (iii) likely
negative IRR; and (iv) uncertain sustainability. However, under the Government's
Action Plan for completion of Itaparica -- agreed to by the Bank's Board in September
1997 -- remaining irrigation works are being implemented rapidly and an intensive effort
has been mounted to achieve farmer self-management of the arealschemes. This report is
accompanied by an interim Progress Report to the Board and a final Progress Report is
scheduled for end- 1999, will assess progress on all aspects of this Plan and will
specifically address the achievement of the project's income and wellbeing objectives.
Sustainability and Future Operations
19.   Sustaining this project depends on financial, technical, social and political factors
and time is once again an element as Government seeks to complete the project and
achieve its original objectives, while extricating CHESF for privatization in 1999. The
Project is now controlled by the Chamber for Infrastructure Policies linked directly to the
Presidency. Government's Action Plan is being executed by GERPI (Executive Working
Group to Complete the Itaparica Resettlement Project) which is now fully field-based and
actively negotiating the terms of completion with individual subprojects/families. The
basic strategy is for all operational subprojects to receive technical assistance and
extension to foster their organization and ability to manage independently. Subprojects
still under construction will be completed and adopt the same procedure for TA and
extension, while those still under study or in early implementation will -- with some
exceptions -- not be continued. Compensation and relocation assistance is being
negotiated. Government estimates that completion will require about US$210.0 million
and is committed to providing those funds.
20.   The main issues of sustainability are: (i) credit availability for productive
investments on-farm; (ii) priority completion of rural titling programs inter alia as
collateral for rural credit; (iii) secure arrangements for financing operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems; (iv) negotiating a strategy for collection of water
charges; (v) organized production and marketing strategy/arrangements including storage
facilities and forward contracts; (vi) the shift from annual short cycle crops to fruit
plantations, which implies further investments to simplify and adapt irrigation systems
and reduce operational costs; (vii) development of strong, viable cooperatives and similar
bodies to assume all services and O&M; (viii) construction and/or rehabilitation, and
maintenance of roads, which have deteriorated and threaten marketing efforts especially
of fruit; (ix) soil quality must be addressed if the productive base is to be sustained; (x)
land sales should be permitted once farmers receive title in order to permit the influx of



- ix -
new farming skills and permit the exit of those not committed to farming; (xi) removal of
VMT, which has bred dependence and passivity in a region which requires dynamism
and commitrnent to survive.
Bank and Borrower Performance
21.   Bank Performance. Much criticism has been leveled at the Project and the
Bank and some of it is justified. However, this criticism has come ex post without a full
understanding of the financial, political, technical and institutional difficulties
encountered at all stages of the project. Bank commitment to this operation is beyond
doubt. The Bank supported CHESF and P6lo Sindical, facilitating and/or financing the
transfer of around 45,000 people with belongings and livestock to new, fully serviced
houses of superior quality in record time with minimal problems and social unrest. With
respect to the design of the Project, since the Bank did not finance this dam and entered
the picture well after initiation of dam construction (1979) adherence to its own policy of
planning resettlement to coincide with dam construction (OMS2.33) is not an issue in this
case. The Bank fully-respected all other relevant policies in designing this project, but
the process of conforming increased project complexity and cost.
22.   The Bank fielded 23 formal supervision missions (including ICR mission) and
numerous special/single-issue missions. Missions were generally multi-skilled and
supervision was intense. The thorny nature of many problems prevented the Bank from
always resolving them successfully or rapidly. The quality of mission reporting was
exceptionally high. Annual supervision time averaged 19 weeks complemented by
constant contact with lead agencies, resettler leadership, contractors and others.
However, supervision and oversight of the Project may have suffered as a result of
comparatively frequent turnover of task managers around 1992-94, but since then the
project has had one task manager and the core project team has remained unchanged.
The Bank has continued to supervise the project since Closing under a special
arrangement: with the Government through 1999.
23.   The quality of the Bank's appraisal performance, with hindsight, was weakened
by pressures arising from the nature of the project, its shifting policy context both inside
and outside the Bank, and its timing. Further, communications between the social,
technical and economic specialists working on the project were not optimal. The outcome
in design terms included: (i) overly-optimistic assumptions underlying the economic
analysis of the irrigation schemes including: viability of farm models based on annual
crops; expectation that the entire Itaparica-wide irrigation infrastructure program could be
built in one year (1988); sustained good yields expected from sandy, poor soils and
fertilizers available at reasonable prices; lack of a production and marketing strategy; and
the mismatch between sophisticated irrigation systems, commercial production and
mostly land'less laborers. Massive amounts of technical assistance and promises of
Government credit were expected to bolster these assumptions. Other aspects of
appraisal were also deficient: (ii) lack of a strategy and measures to secure the
involvement of state and local authorities in recurrent cost funding of social and other
services, and road maintenance; and (iii) a vision of economic development of the region
limited to irrigated agriculture to the exclusion of permanent job creation.



- x -
24.   Finally, frequent assertions that the Bank had no control over the terms of the
settlement agreed to by CHESF and P6lo Sindical in 1986 and that it lacked influence
over site selection or the choice of irrigation technology, are not supported by a thorough
reading of the record.
25.   In presenting the Project to the Bank's Board of Directors in November 1987,
staff pointed out that despite its promise for beneficiaries, the Project was not to be seen
as a model for future operations since the Bank was not involved in the main dam/hydro-
electric operation and became involved in the resettlement too late. Ideally, resettlement
strategies and plans should start well before construction of the main plant. Nevertheless.
as a stand-alone resettlement operation, the project was unique in the Bank at the time
and its preparation per se under unusually intense and pressured circumstances, was a
significant achievement.
26.   Request for Inspection. In March 1997, the Bank's independent Inspection
Panel received a Request for Inspection of the Project from a group of 121 individuals
and P61o Sindical, claiming that standards of living, healtlh and economic wellbeing of
people living in the Project area had been adversely affected by delays in completion of
the Project and by the Bank's alleged violation of its own policies and procedures relating
to Itaparica. However, the Request was careful to praise Bank supervision of the Project
and its attention to the affected population. Evidence suggests that the underlying
purpose of the Request was concern about the imminent closure of the Project and
departure of the Bank and CHESF with many activities and issues still incomplete and/or
unresolved. Management prepared a detailed Response which, while conceding that the
situation was less than ideal and stating that "until the productive capacity of the
displaced rural families is fully restored, the project will not have achieved its goals",
asserted that Project shortcomings did not arise from the Bank's failures to follow its own
policies. The Bank's Board of Directors agreed that there were compelling reasons for
the Bank to supervise implementation of the Government Action Plan, in lieu of
authorizing an investigation by the Inspection Panel, and that the Board would review
progress in 12 months and again at end- 1999 when the Bank's supervisory role ends.
27.   Borrower Performance. From the perspective of some former senior
ELETROBRAS staff, the institution's acceptance of the resettlement project was an
implicit condition for a Second Power Sector Loan. Its commitment and involvement
cooled when that loan failed to proceed. ELETROBRAS provided the bulk of Project
financing and financial management/oversight were its primary focus, but its general
stance was one of disengagement from the resettlement process and its aftermath. While
ELETROBRAS may have followed the progress of the project through the formation of
various committees and special action groups -- detailed in written comments on the
Bank's draft ICR - most external observers agree that its supervisory activities and its
participation in crucial decisions affecting project design, costs and overall management,
was arm's- length. Bank project staff maintain that had ELETROBRAS -- a powerful
parastatal -- been more proactive in supervising its investment and in assuming a
leadership role as interested broker, results might have been different. Once the dam was
built and affected populations were physically resettled, public interest in their plight
waned, political support faded, and Itaparica fell off the Government's core agenda.



- xi -
28.   Tumultuous political and economic change and macro-economic instability and
inflation in Brazil had a powerful influence on the Project's course and outcome up to
1994. Introduction of the Real Plan in that year caused a sharp turnaround in macro-
economic conditions and a totally different counterpart funding situation emerged.
Government has continued to support this operation even as costs escalated beyond
original estimates, despite significant domestic (and external) criticism of the project and
many demands for supplementary allocations. Government s Action Plan and
demonstrated commitment to carrying it out including through direct, field-based
negotiation wvith affected families and their leaders, deserve praise.
29.   The sltate and local authorities involved in the Project have shown disparate
performance, ranging from full support to indifference. Municipalities, often for political
reasons, have long neglected their responsibilities for roads, while State agencies have
allov-Kd public security, health and education services, to deteriorate -- a situation finally
being addressed/reversed after much effort and negotiation. Private sector participation
as contractors for operation and maintenance (O&M) and as technical assistance
providers was not as successful as expected and the public sector shares some blame for
not having supervised them more closely. Finally, resettler support for and belief in the
project has been slow to develop, for which VMT-induced apathy and prolonged
inactivity are a significant cause.
30.   CHE;SF's performance has fluctuated and evolved over time. Despite the widely-
publicized events at Sobradinho, CHESF did not voluntarily plan for the relocation at
Itaparica until pressured to do so. CHESF is a highly bureaucratic agency with a strong
engineering bias and power generation remains its primary focus. However, once fully-
engaged in the planning and execution cycle, CHESF showed skill and resourcefulness in
handling many tasks which were not its traditional role. The appointment in 1995 of a
capable, effective and sensitive team to manage the Project was a turning point. Relations
with P6lo Sindical and the resettlers improved but can still deteriorate over specific
issues. Even as it works vigorously with key agents to secure completion and "release"
of Itaparica, CHESF shows a marked reluctance to disengage from the Project, micro-
managing settlers needs and demands, and adopting positions which have at times
complicated GERPI's negotiations for the future self-management of the region and its
schemes. However, as detailed in its comments on the Bank's draft ICR, CHESF has
played a strong role in efforts to consolidate farmer organizations and promote self-
management and the institution maintains that its actions are fully-convergent with
Government's directives as reflected in the activities and orientation of GERPI. CHESF
insists that ef.forts by the settlers and P6lo Sindical to preserve the status quo do not
reflect CHESF's own institutional position.
31.   P6lo Sindical. P6lo Sindical has had a profound influence on the course of
events at Itaparica. P6lo Sindical negotiated in 1986 a generous package of benefits with
CHESF but its broader agenda has at times conflicted with rapid project execution. As
complex irrigation systems come on stream, formerly landless laborers become
entrepreneurs with different needs, and self-management through a network of
associations and cooperatives gains ground, P6lo Sindical's role is bound to change.



- xii -
P6lo Sindical has vied with GERPI for resettler support on a range of strategic and
practical issues, slowing down the negotiating process designed to release Itaparica.
Lessons Learned
32.   The following lists the more critical lessons, the basis for which is elaborated
fully in the Main Text:
(a)   Time constraints mandated a simpler project design or a stronger
stance on the dam filling deadline to accommodate the difficult design
issues stemming from the CHESF/P61o Sindical Agreement and the
Bank's own resettlement policies. There is a trade-off between investing
in better plans and meeting "external" deadlines pertaining to the main
investment, in the case of emergency projects.
(b)   Realistic assessment of the true costs of the irrigation/production
package, especially its energy and water costs, is essential. State of the
art systems might entail significant and possibly permanent subsidies.
Evidence of budgetary problems and potential counterpart funding
difficulties at appraisal must be confronted and assessed.
(c)   Experiences under this project suggest that there are significant
differences between the challenges posed by urban resettlement
(including urban areas in a rural setting) and rural resettlement. The
latter appears to create unique problems for income restoration, recreation
of social networks and living conditions for which technical solutions may
have their limits and which can be more costly to resolve.
(d)   "Land for land in the vicinity" may be impractical especially if a
significant portion of the target population is landless, its capacities do not
match the technical level of the productive package, and it is prevented
from selling out to make way for an influx of farning skills.
(e)   Resettlement projects may be inappropriate candidates for economic
justification in their own right, independent of the dam which created
the need. The resettlement "component" of a hydro-electric scheme
should satisfy technical, environmental and social standards, at least cost.
(f)   It is unrealistic to expect a Borrower to prioritize resettlement after
the dam is completed, especially one whose chief business is power
generation. Special and sustainable leverage must be found to maintain
commitment and the flow of funds.
(g)   In an inflationary environment and where large investments are
involved, special attention to financial estimation is required to reduce
risks which create uncertainty and complicate financial monitoring.



- xiii -
(h)   The Bank should, as early as possible during preparation, pursue and
secure the full support of state and local authorities for the public
utility, social services and other elements of resettlement projects which
will require recurrent funding.
(i)   Issues of subsidies for energy supply should be discussed and agreed
during preparation and appraisal and included in resettlement
agreements signed by representatives of the affected population and
Government. Lack of clear definition can hinder the final transfer of
project operation to autonomous management organizations and
undermine realistic assessment of sustainable income.
(j)   Ideally, the transfer of populations should only commence once
productive and social infrastructure and systems are in place and
operational. Farmers should not be moved before their farms are ready to
cultivate.
(k)   Voluntary resettlement based on terms and conditions agreeable to all
parties has major advantages, but is likely to be costly. These costs
must be realistically assessed and explicitly included in ex ante economic
evaluation of the project.
(1)    Resettlement as a result of hydro-electric schemes should extend its
vision beyond irrigated agriculture to the creation of diversified,
permanent employment, e.g., fisheries and intensive livestock in the case
of Itaparica.
(m)   A cadaster of populations in the area of dam/resettlement projects
must be taken at an early stage to determine precise eligibility and
avoid free-riders. The long delay between initiation of dam construction
and Project appraisal provided the opening for an influx of technically
ineligible people.
(n)   Experience with this project suggests that the Bank's resettlement
policy, while embodying the important principle of fairness, can
sometimes create entitlements which imply difficult trade-offs. A
review of this policy which preserves the important underlying principles
while injecting flexibility into the possible mechanisms for resettlement,
would be prudent.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT and IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2883-BR)
PART ][: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project was designed to relocate and
reestablish the population displaced by the Itaparica dam and reservoir, one of a series of
large hydroeliectric schemes built on the Sao Francisco River to supply energy to the
Northeastern states. The Itaparica dam - which was not Bank-financed -- was a national
priority to al]leviate severe power rationing which was depressing regional economic
activity, estimated in annual losses of around US$2.0 billion by 1987. Construction was
started on the dam in 1979 under the authority of Brazilian Power Plants, SA
(ELETROBR.AS), the national holding company of Brazil's regional power authorities,
through its subsidiary, the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company (CHESF).
2.    Construction by CHESF in the 1970s of the Bank-financed Sobradinho Dam,
about 400 kmn upstream from Itaparica, caused the displacement of about 60,000 people.
CHESF competently managed the relocation of some 3,400 urban families but failed on
the rural resettlement portion by assuming that families would recover their farming
livelihood without further assistance or move to a new colonization scheme upstream.
This poorly-planned and non-participatory resettlement process resulted in the majority
abandoning their efforts to settle and moving out of the area. The social and economic
costs of the Sobradinho experience, and resulting criticism of the Bank's apparent
insensitivity to environmental issues, left its mark on Bank support for the Brazilian
power sector', on Bank policy guidelines on involuntary resettlement (OPN 10.08,
October 1986) and on the Project itself.
3.    Bank involvement in the Itaparica Resettlement Project evolved during
preparation of the US$500 million First Power Sector Loan (2720-BR) which supported
rehabilitation and financial restructuring of the power sector in Brazil. A review of social
and environrnental issues affecting the power sector showed that with construction of the
Itaparica Daim already in its fifth year and dam flooding barely two years away, CHESF
had only embryonic plans for resettlement of affected people, especially those in rural
areas, raising the specter of another Sobradinho.



-2 -
4.    The Bank believed a sound resettlement project could contribute to broader
development objectives in the irrigation and power sectors, as well as supporting general
poverty alleviation objectives in the Northeast region. The project was an opportunity to
demonstrate sensitivity to environmental and resettlement issues while improving
Brazil's performance in addressing the resettlement aspects of hydro-electric programs.
The Bank influenced the Itaparica resettlement through special conditions on its
financing of the first power sector loan and through ELETROBRAS' hopes for a second,
follow-on sector loan of US$500 million. Release of the first and second tranches of the
sector loan was conditioned inter alia on ELETROBRAS preparing an ][taparica
Resettlement Plan and carrying it out.
5.    The Bank's increasing involvement in the details of the resettlement plan
implicitly indicated a willingness to share its financing. Assurances given to the Board
during presentation of the power sector loan that the Bank would ensure the success of
the Itaparica resettlement, galvanized actual project initiation. In 1979, the P6lo Sindical
do Submedio Sao Francisco, a coalition of rural workers' unions, was established to press
CHESF for compensation for the affected populations. But its relations with CHESF
were tense and contentious, prompting a petition to the Bank in August 1985 in support
of the increasingly difficult situation of families affected by the dam, whom P6lo Sindical
claimed were unable to secure a dialogue with CHESF, and were fearful of expulsion
from the area.2
6.    CHESF felt strong pressure -- from its parent ELETROBRAS, anxious not to
jeopardize further Bank involvement in the power sector program and to keep the dam
filling schedule on track, and from popular movements emboldened by the recent
transition to democratic government in Brazil -- to develop a plan satisfactory both to the
Bank and to the displaced populations. Earlier plans to offer cash compensation were
dropped in favor of "land for land near the water" irrigation schemes for families
electing to stay and farm, which represented the majority. In December 1986, some six
months after the Bank's first preparation mission (June 1986), P6lo Sindical protested
CHESF's continued delays by staging a strike at the dam site. This led to a negotiated,
participatory agreement between the two entities signed in the presence of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy, establishing the criteria, design parameters and implementation
schedule of the Itaparica Resettlement Plan, the basis for the Bank-financed Project.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN
Project Objectives
7.    The Loan was intended to maintain and if possible, improve the living standards
of the families displaced by the reservoir. The Bank's priority in this project has always
2   The Project Brief mentions that in 1981 CHESF had established a working group proposing
indemnification for all persons within the area of the future reservoir, but follow-up was poor for
financial, political and institutional reasons and the fear of expulsion was not unfounded. Changed
administration at CHESF in 1986 saw a more amenable attitude evolving.



-3 -
been the rural population and therefore, about 80% of the Loan of US$132.0 million was
allocated to irrigation and agricultural production, rural infrastructure and services in five
major schemes at varying distances from the reservoir. For the rural population,
successful resettlement was defined as increased agricultural production, adequate
housing in small rural centers, and improved land ownership. The financial situation of
farmers was expected to improve towards the end of the first year of irrigated cropping
(1989). At full development, all farmers would have significantly higher incomes
ranging annually from about US$2,100 on farms of 1.5 ha to US$5,900 on farms of 6 ha
and not including additional income from livestock production on community grazing
lands. The urban families were to benefit from newly-established towns providing better
municipal services.
8.    The Project approved by the Bank's Board of Directors represented the conscious
application of the Bank's social protection policy and of key technical principles. The
Project was seen as the least cost solution meeting the 1986 Agreement between P6lo
Sindical and CHESF, while adhering to Bank guidelines concerning involuntary
resettlement. The framework for CHESF's objectives for this project was the promotion
of regional investment, creation of a class of small independent farming families and
encouraging community participation in the resettlement process as a means of
minimizing potential conflicts.4 P6lo Sindical for its part, sought to secure the physical
resettlement and restoration of farming activities for low-income populations displaced
by hydro-electric development, in this case specifically for the rural families affected by
the Itaparica. dam.
9.    In presenting the Project to the Board on November 17, 1987, staff pointed out
that despite its promise for beneficiaries, it was not to be seen as a model for the future
because the Bank was not involved in the main dam and hydro-electric project and
became involved in the resettlement too late. Ideally, resettlement strategies and plans
should start well before construction of the main project. Nevertheless, as a stand-alone
resettlement operation, the Project was unique in the Bank at the time and its preparation
per se under intense time, technical, financial and social pressure, was an achievement in
its own right.
Componenits
10.   To avoid confusion over numbers, several clarifications are needed. First, the
Itaparica resettlement "Program" was a larger operation of which the Bank-financed
Project was a dominant portion. Components not financed by the Bank would be fully
covered by local funds and included resettlement projects which did not meet Bank
feasibility standards, land acquisition and fixed asset compensation payments. Second,
key appraisal estimates have in almost all cases changed through the years due primarily
to the inclusion of new families and changes in the number of plots available in each
3 SAR para. 3.07
4  OED: World Bank Approaches to the Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Projects, April
1992.



- 4 -
project once construction was completed. Conflicting data between numbers of families
and plots results from the same family receiving more than one plot. Numbers in the
following are specified where necessary, as to Bank-financed and "full".
11.    Project objectives would be achieved through three components: (i) Rural
Resettlement involving five major irrigation subprojects, agricultural production and
social support; rural housing grouped in small centers (agrovilas); roads, water supply,
electricity; and education, health and social services; (ii) Urban Resettlement involving
relocation of four towns, infrastructure, provision of serviced residential plots, building
materials and new housing; public buildings; serviced commercial plots; community
infrastructure, roads, water supply and sanitation; and (iii) Fisheries Research via
provision of consultant's services to review and monitor the biological potential of the
Itaparica Reservoir.'
12.    The project's target population comprised long-established residents of the
alluvial floodplain bordering the Sao Francisco River and of the semi-arid hinterland of
the States of Bahia and Pernambuco. The Itaparica reservoir inundated about 18,000 ha
of potentially irrigable land of which about 8,000 ha were actually cultivated under
irrigation at the time. A further 40,000 ha submerged had been used for rainfed cropping
and livestock. Fertile alluvial soil produced good yields and high cropping intensities.
About 80% of the farmers along the river had basic irrigation experience, mostly using
small diesel pumps, and many had some experience with technical assistance. About two
thirds of the displaced families were landless and the remainder had only precarious title.
Living standards and incomes were low for most families but compared to their peers in
the semi-arid interior (sertido) they subsisted dependably by cash cropping tomatoes,
onions and melons and selling surplus production of other crops including beans, maize
and manioc. About 90,000 head of livestock and rainfed farming provided additional
sources of income.6
13.    Urban Resettlement. Formation of the reservoir caused the displacement of
about 5,100 urban families, which includes 1,100 families who were urban residents but
farmed or raised livestock as their main activity -- the para-rurals. About 1,400 families
chose cash compensation and left the area prior to its clearance. About 4,400 urban
dwellings were constructed (not Bank-financed) which included an additional 700
families who opted to remain farmers but to live in the new towns near the irrigation
perimeter in which their plot was located. Urban property owners were entitled to either:
(i) cash compensation for the value of existing construction plus a freehold title to a
5   Mentioned in Loan Agreement but not the SAR. FAO reported (February 28, 1987) strong potential
for development of capture fisheries in Lake Itaparica. The report predicted a large number of
professional, resident fishermen and farmers fishing for food and income. Interviews with area
families indicated fish was a staple.
6   Baseline data collected before the Project began showed that 55% of the affected rural families had
incomes below one minimum salary and about 40% between one and two minimum salaries per
month. The maintenance payment (VMT) paid by CHESF from 1988 on was therefore higher than
the baseline salary of some 95% of the affected population. Agricultural incomes fluctuated widely,
while the VMT was reliable.



- 5 -
serviced plot 20% larger than the existing one; or (ii) a freehold plot and the construction
by CHESF of a new house, both 20% larger than the original. Non-property owners
obtained freehold title to a serviced plot with sufficient materials to build a 55m2 house.
14.    Urban resettlement was far less contentious than its rural counterpart because: (i)
adequate time was allowed for planning; (ii) communities were moved as a whole; (iii)
compensation was realistic and asset-based; (iv) urban residents would all become
owners at their new location;7 and (v) there were no major property entitlement issues.
In rural areas, planning started late and was more complex and dispute-prone from the
beginning although the end-result of the process was a successful move. Urban
resettlement included 418 commercial units and a total of 52 state and federal buildings.
Site selection of new urban centers took place between 1980 and 1984 taking into
account the concerns of residents and the municipal, state and federal authorities. In all
cases. iesign concepts were discussed at special meetings and agreed with residents and
municipalities. Plans also had to conform to then-current codes and specifications which
were more sophisticated than the ones existing when the former towns were built. The
result was urban planning standards markedly superior to the original.
15.    Rural Resettlement. The full rural resettlement project comprised 5,917 families
(4,541 Bank-t-inanced. 78% of the total) and 126 agrovilas8 (106 Bank-financed).
Another 1.376 families were resettled in small to medium-sized projects (not Bank-
financed). About 700 families accepted cash compensation and left. In all, some 6,600
rural families were displaced of which 1,100 families were urban residents who received
irrigated plots because agriculture and cattle-raising were their principal occupation (they
are counted as para-rurals). Total displacees (including urban) were about 10,500
families counting opportunistic late arrivals from the sertao  and factoring in pressure on
CHESF to liberalize conditions of eligibility. A cadaster taken between 1982 and 1985
and re-done in 1987 to include families missed earlier, defined who was eligible in the
Agreement. These cadasters included some 10, 623 families (around 52,400 people)I'
16.    Land selection and design of irrigation systems were guided by experts from
Brazil, the US Bureau of Reclamation and the Extension Service of Israel. The Sao
Francisco River Valley Development Company (CODEVASF) and the State
Governments of Bahia and Pernambuco aided land identification. Pedological and
topographic studies were done under tight time frames and in many cases at a scale
inappropriate for irrigation projects. The extent of Bank influence over site selection and
choice of the irrigation model is debated in the record but it is concluded that in both
cases, despite statements to the contrary, it was substantial.1' In the case of irrigation
7   So would tural, but with various conditions attached to delay freehold ownership.
8   Small rural settlements or villages.
9   Semi-Arid zone in the Northeast characterized by recurrent droughts and widespread poverty.
10 Itaparica Project Supervision and Resettlement Review Mission BTO, T. Serra (May 1993).
l  Memorandum of August 2, 1989 to S. Kirmani, consultant Project reviewer for the Supplemental
Loan, differs sharply: "The Bank had no control over the selection of the resettlement areas and thus



- 6 -
designs, part of a design process over which the Bank is often described as having had
little control, Serra (1993) states: " Emphasizing restoration and improvement of incomes
and living conditions, aspects which had been poorly-handled in the case of Sobradinho,
the Bank's policy and the technical assistance provided during Project preparation
especially influenced the conception and design standards used for irrigation schemes."
17.    Early discussions (pre-Bank involvement) between CHESF and rural resettlers
centered on a group of sites favored for their proximity to resettlers' homes, transport and
other characteristics. Most were close to the future reservoir. However, Bank feasibility
criteria demanded more stringent soil requirements and contracted experts sought to find
the best sites to locate irrigation areas. Thus three of the five major irrigation schemes
were located upstream with the largest being sited well beyond the western tip of the
reservoir, several hundred kilometers from original riverside locations. Cost and
complexity of project implementation were increased by the need for substantial lifting of
water and its transportation over long distances, and the selection of sprinkler technology
with the need for pressurized pipes. '
18.    The agreement between CHESF and P6lo Sindical, while unusually generous, was
the minimum acceptable to the displaced families and what CHESF was willing to
concede to obtain their agreement. 3 It reflected, unlike Sobradinho, the full
participation of the affected families mainly through the intervention of P6lo Sindical,
and sought to equal or improve resettlers' economic status, two important Bank
objectives in the wake of the Sobradinho experience, but also factors which immediately
elevated the Project cost outlook. As noted by Kirmnani (1989), "The cost of resettling
affected families on a voluntary basis is always more than the cost of an imposed
involuntary resettlement based on one-sided terms".
19.    The 1986 Agreement established basic criteria to protect the interests of the
affected population including: (i) families owning, renting or occupying 6 ha or more of
irrigated area and practicing agriculture would receive a 6 ha irrigated plot; (ii) a single
rural laborer over 18 who cultivated independent fields, would receive an irrigated plot
up to 3 ha.; (iii) families irrigating less than 6 ha would receive irrigated land according
to family size; (iv) retired but still active laborers would receive a 1.5 ha irrigated plot;
(v) CHESF would guarantee employment to one member per family by construction
firms contracted by the Project; (vi) CHESF would obtain special credit facilities for
resettlers; (vii) plots affected by salinity after five years could be substituted with a new
plot; (viii) CHESF would guarantee technical assistance, rural extension and marketing
no control over the cost of their development for irrigation. The areas were chosen by Government
where publicly-owned land was available or could be expropriated at short notice.....Bank staff
reviewed the suitability (from an agricultural and soil quality point of view) of the resettlement areas
selected by Government and the proposed irrigation engineering layouts in the resettlement areas".
12
The Report of the Inter-Ministerial Group (April 1997) notes that one of the characteristics
distinguishing Itaparica from its peers was the complete lack of land outside the immediate margins of
the Sao Francisco River, which could sustain a livelihood without sophisticated cropping and
irrigation technology. Another distinguishing aspect was that most of the resettlers lacked title.
13 S. Kirmani, Itaparica Resettlement Review, October 1989.



-7 -
support to all resettlers in all phases; and (ix) CHESF would not fill the reservoir until
resettlement was completed. P6lo Sindical also secured agreement for an interim support
payment designed to tide families over until their first harvest. The rights of the landless,
which might have become a contentious issue, were never debated. They were to obtain
an irrigated plot and a home in the agrovila, benefits which sustain their presence even
today.
20.    Tuxa Amerindians. Bank awareness that there was an indigenous population in
the resettlement equation emerged quite late'4. Some 190 families were Tuxa
Amerindians living in the town of Rodelas and farming irrigated land on an island in the
Sao Francisco River. During 1986 partly as a result of disputes among the leadership
over appropriate resettlement options and partly as the culmination of long-standing
political differences, the tribal group split with 92 families choosing to locate in
Ibotirama, Bahia, some 1,200 km upstream of the Sao Francisco and the remainder
staying in Rodelas, Bahia. The Tuxa case was treated as a separate operation (not Bank-
financed) due to Brazilian laws precluding Bank financing, but conditionality in the Loan
documents describes CHESF's and FUNAI's (National Indian Foundation) responsibility
for their resettlement, for the provision of social and agricultural services and for the
transfer of the land they were to occupy.
21.    Preparation and appraisal of the large and complex Project over the 20-month
period from tlhe Bank's first involvement were hectic and challenging. The fast
approaching deadline for filling the dam, and technical, institutional and financial
complications foreshadowing crises later emerging during implementation, created
intense pressure on all parties and a sense of emergency. Kirmani (1989) graphically
describes the race against time to acquire irrigable land (and the budget to fund it), study
soils, design the irrigation systems, address the logistics of relocation, and sort out
daunting financial, legal and administrative issues.  Project appraisal was repeatedly
postponed on quality grounds. The conditions for prudent judgment were difficult. The
risky operation elicited strong, divergent and critical opinions in the Bank but no-one
actively advocated non-involvement because the human need was clear. The LAC
Projects Director noted that the high projected costs per settler and low projected farm
incomes clearly ruled out Bank financing but he nevertheless supported Bank
involvement while stating that financial compensation combined with relocation
assistance might have been the more logical route.16 Certainly few seriously advocated
lobbying Government to extend the deadline for dam filling -- the Bank was as
14  A memorandum of March 23, 1987 comments that a BTO by M. Molares (LEGLA) was the first "to
indicate the presence of Amerindians among the population to be displaced and to outline some issues
surrounding them". Also notes that "the recent (preparation mission's) report is silent on this
point... .our recent public experience with Amerindians elsewhere in Brazil makes it advisable to
focus on this matter as fast as possible".
15  Established sites refused to accept Itaparica displacees and new sites had to be located.
16  In 1981 CHESF did establish a working group proposing indemnification for all persons within the
area of the future reservoir, but follow-up weakened as pressures for a more comprehensive settlement
grew and the idea was abandoned.



- 8 -
committed as CHESF to early power production given the reality of daily power outages
throughout the Northeast and their enormous economic and social cost."
22.    Project Design. Project design phased implementation over seven years in three
stages: (i) urban and rural relocation ending in December 1987 around the planned start
of reservoir filling; (ii) irrigation infrastructure construction in 1988 -- a totally unrealistic
schedule; and (iii) production and socio-economic consolidation phase in rural areas from
January 1989 to December 1993. CHESF would be responsible for the first and second
phases and CODEVASF would take over in the third consolidation phase of rural
development, while new urban centers would be managed by their respective
municipalities. CHESF would retain overall control of budget and supervision.
23.    Since irrigation infrastructure was expected not to be completed until after
physical resettlement, CHESF undertook on the basis of the 1986 Agreement with P6lo
Sindical, to make monthly maintenance payments based on a basket of necessities and
approximately equivalent to 2.5 minimum salaries -- now known as the Verba de
Manutenqdo Temporaria (VMT) -- to all rural families from the date of relocation up to
nine months after water became available for on-farm irrigation. In expectation that
irrigation works would be completed by 1988, the likely payment period seemed
reasonable. Payment required that farmers work on land clearing, road construction,
building of irrigation systems and other tasks, i.e., it was not an entitlement. However,
the farmers themselves, backed by P6lo Sindical and citing CHESF field staff who had
reassured them during project preparation that the payment was a grant and that their
plots would be delivered pre-cleared, strongly disagreed. Ultimately, clearing work and
similar activities were separately remunerated by CHESF in addition to the VMT.
24.    For the irrigation systems, by far the largest portion of original, estimated total
costs (US$136.0 million including contingencies), the project was to finance construction
of pumping stations and water conveyance systems for public irrigation systems, the
installation of irrigation equipment on farmers' fields, surface drainage and feeder roads,
and the construction of power lines to the pumping stations. Using current data (agreed
with CHESF), a total of 20,512 ha of irrigable land (15,597 Bank-financed) targeted for
irrigation has been divided into plots for 5,917 families (4,541 Bank-financed) including
the Tuxa group of about 100 families (not Bank-financed). Some 1,993 families settled
around the lake on about 6,600 ha (Borda do Lago or Lakeside projects); the other 2,548
families were relocated in three new irrigation perimeters several hundred kilometers
from their traditional homes and totaling 9,029 ha (Brigida, Pedra Branca and Caraibas'8
7  There was an understanding in the Brazil Programs Division by March 1987 that if greater progress
could not be achieved for a June appraisal, the Bank should insist on CHESF delaying the flooding or
that Division would withdraw from the Project. Memorandum of March 17, 1987 states "Given that
the need for resettlement has been known for years, and intensive preparation with Bank support has
gone on for almost a year, the vagueness of resettlement procedures at this point casts serious doubt
on CHESF's capacity to carry out the resettlement given the complex technical, social and managerial
issues".
18 The Caraibas project was recently renamed by the farmers as the Fulgencio Project to honor their
leader, slain earlier in 1998.



-9 -
-- known as Special Schemes). All new farms were to be sprinkler irrigated. Each
farmer woulcd receive an irrigated plot of at least 1.5 ha to a maximum of 6.0 ha
depending on family size and whether previous status was owner, tenant farmer or
laborer. Each farmer would also receive rights to about 22 ha of community grazing and
rainfed cropland.
25.   Agricultural extension, farmer training and other support services were an integral
part of the project given that soil management and irrigation techniques in the new areas
would differ greatly from traditional practices along the Sao Francisco. Complementing
project production support activities, medium and long-term agricultural investment
credit would be made available to resettlers under the regular Northeast Irrigation
Program (PROINE) the Government having rejected the inclusion of credit in the Bank
Project. Rural housing was grouped into 126 agrovilas (106 Bank-financed) with water
supply and treatment systems, internal roads with linkage to highways, electricity, 59
new rural schools and eight new health posts.
26.   The Bank knew and preparation missions informed Regional Management that
rural resettlerment costs per family would be high. This was due to unusually large farm
holdings per ifamily for a resettlement project since additional land was required to equal
or exceed fanner's previous productivity/income on better (alluvial) soils. Irrigating
resettlement areas remote from the water source and with high pumping lifts (up to 100
meters) was an expensive technical challenge. Soils were mostly sandy and of low
fertility and most could not be irrigated by gravity. State of the art irrigation technology
was used. Agreed standards (CHESF/P6lo 1986) for rural housing, water supply,
sanitation ancl social support services were relatively high and diverse types were
included. Building materials had to be trucked long distances to three of the five
subprojects due to lack of local availability. Finally, Project costs were also increased by
an influx of families arriving or returning to take advantage of the resettlement program.
A cadaster was not taken until quite late in the planning process.
27.   Project design was consistent in specific ways with integrated rural development
projects in a region where such projects had a history of unsatisfactory performance,
especially in terms of counterpart funding, multiple components/activities, institutional
coordination, centralized management and sustainability. The project was appraised at
about the time such projects were undergoing analysis and rethinking in the Bank. In the
Brazilian Northeast, the new Northeast Rural Development Program in ten states had
already consciously scaled back the number of activities traditionally associated with
such projects, and made other changes intended to improve implementation. However, in
a manner still inconceivable at that time for mainline Bank RD projects, the Itaparica
project was highly participatory.
28.   According to the Project Agreement, land titles were to be issued at most five
years after farnilies were transferred, i.e. by December 1992. The timing of this
requirement was predicated on their entire holding having been developed for irrigation,
based on: (i) the wish to prevent early sales and emigration during the difficult early
years; (ii) to prevent wastage of the huge sunk cost in the resettlement and in the
irrigation systems in particular; and (iii) to avoid land speculation and outside pressure on



- 10-
families to sell. In a Post-Appraisal memorandum to LAC Senior Management, it was
considered to be in the beneficiaries' best interests to grant them provisional title for five
years with CHESF retaining legal ownership of the land during that period. Project staff
felt that tying farmers to their land would prevent their "abusing the generosity" of the
resettlement authority which had invested large sums to resettle them and was planning
further investments in technical assistance and training. However, in the view of one
Senior Manager this was "social engineering" constraining the free land sales which
would promote turnover and the inflow of a more dynamic, entrepreneurial type of
producer.
29.   Project Risk Assessment. The SAR openly acknowledged that resettlement as a
result of manmade changes in the environment was always difficult and faced many risks.
In the case of Itaparica, these were increased by the tight timeframe for resettlement
caused by the urgent need to initiate power generation. Also mentioned were the need
for effective inter-institutional coordination and the risk that settlers would be tempted to
sell their holdings and leave. Farmer participation in design and implementation, support
payments for up to nine months after water availability, and delayed issuance of land title
until all irrigated land was developed and crop production underway and being marketed
from it, were expected to counter stated risk. Massive technical assistance for productive
activities, social aspects, and for operation and maintenance, would be provided. The
Project had been designed to minimize risk.'9 The Memorandum of the President (MOP)
for the Supplemental Loan20 leaps over any mention of the irrigation works construction
phase and focuses on the third, production support phase mentioning risks attached to
inexperienced farmers adapting to sophisticated irrigation systems. Also noted is the risk
that construction costs would continue to escalate resulting in further funding shortfalls.
As it turned out, it was the counterpart funding shortfalls and resulting disruptive
contracting environment for civil works construction, which caused higher costs.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
30.   Board approval of the Project was greeted with widespread satisfaction, being
seen as an outcome in its own right, especially under the pressured circumstances of its
preparation. P6lo Sindical had a decisive role in making the process participatory and in
the quality of the settlement reached with CHESF. Under implementation, the physical
resettlement of the urban and rural populations was successful -- the orchestration of
physical and social detail was impressive and a major achievement for which CHESF and
the Bank deserve commendation.
31.   The Project has significantly improved the living conditions, specifically the
housing and asset base of around 5,917 (4,541 Bank-financed) rural families, two thirds
of which were landless and earning less than US$ 100 per month, and about 4,600 urban
families (not Bank-financed). The entire resettler population is now housed in solid,
19  The Project was described by staff at the preappraisal review meeting as being of "relatively simple
design" but by the returning appraisal mission as "this large and complex operation".
20 Report No.P-5181-BR.



masonry-built structures with water supply to the house, electricity and sanitation. Land
ownership conditions have improved in urban areas with about 80% of urban resettlers
now possessirng title. The remainder have certain legal complications (inheritance
claims) but the plan is to complete urban titling by end- 1998. In rural areas, while all
eligible families have the right to an irrigated plot, formal land ownership has made little
progress because of Project rules designed to prevent rapid resale/beneficiary turnover,
bureaucratic obstacles and political pressures on titling in an election year (see para. 76).
Few rural families in Itaparica have title, essential collateral for credit which in turn is a
crucial input for productive self-sufficiency. The planned delivery of about 2,600 titles
by end-1998 rnow appears unlikely.
32.   In an interesting development, traditional land ownership patterns in the project
area have been replaced by new forms of land tenure and production. In areas
expropriated for resettlement land ownership was highly concentrated. Under the
restructured land tenure system in the irrigation subprojects, previously landless rural
workers have been or will be given the tools to become independent small-holders, and
traditional power relationships in the region have weakened and/or changed. 21
33.   Income Restoration and Improvement. Significant income restoration and
improvement lhas been surveyed in several of the subprojects where irrigated production
is underway. Information and analysis presented below is derived from two sources.
First, the Consultants' Study (1998) looked at illustrative productive models/units of 3 ha
each corresponding to Borda do Lago and Special Schemes to determine financial
viability. Second, OED (1998) based its conclusions on farm-level analyses by the
technical assistance Consortia,22 supported by the results of field surveys by the Joaquim
Nabuco Founclation (FUNDAJ) in March 1997. Both sources considered 3 ha irrigated
plots but incorne results differ significantly, ranging overall from US$250 to US$1,000
per month. OE]D results are actual. Results in the Consultants' Study are constructed
from survey-derived costs and budgets.
34.   Illustrative Models. Both examples in this category have similar patterns of
cultivation but with different productivity and costs of production due mainly to
differences in soil quality. Crop rotations adopted were based on Consortia
recommendations and include important areas planted with green fertilizer to amend the
organic content of the soils. For the base situation, Year 0 projects rotations of annual
crops only and productivity estimates considered reasonable by the Consortia for both
Borda do Lago and Special Schemes. From Year I onwards, fruit plantings are included
to utilize the other 50% of the area, permitting comparison of the impact and financial
yields of a rotation made up of only annuals, with one combining annuals and fruits.
(Soil characteristics would in any case, limit fruits to 50% of the farm). Fruits selected
were Banana Pacovan and Anao Coconut because: (i) they actually occupy about 95% of
21 World Bank. Approaches to the Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Projects, OED, J.
Redwood, April 1992.
22 Full names: ENERCONSULT/PROJETEC/PLENA/ELC (Special Schemes) and
HYDROSERVICE/GERSAR (Borda do Lago).



- 12-
existing fruit plantations in irrigation projects; (ii) they produce rapidly (banana starts
producing in the second year and the coconut in Year 3) and once in production the
combination of these fruits represents year-round harvests and income for the producer;
and (iii) they are more resistant during post-harvest management and transport, than other
fruits. This last point is critical for Itaparica due to its distance from marketing centers
and the condition of roads.
35.   Based on detailed budgets,23 producers with 3 irrigated ha cropping annuals only
in Borda do Lago would achieve gross income of R$4,792 per year. equivalent to a
monthly income of R$400, and by introducing fruit on 50% of the farm, could increase
gross income to R$11,098 or R$925 per month. Similarly, producers with 3 irrigated ha
growing only annuals in the Special Schemes would derive annual gfross income of
R$6,042, equivalent to monthly income of around R$500. By introducing fruits on 50%
of the farn, gross income would reach R$12,156 or around R$1,000 per month. These
monthly incomes compare favorably with the payment of VMT of around R$250 per
month but, at least in the case of Borda do Lago subprojects, projected income is below
the R$500 per month considered a satisfactory minimum by Itaparica social workers
familiar with actual family needs. Nevertheless, in all cases projected income compared
favorably with the conditions that existed prior to the resettlement.
36.   Resettlers on lots of 1.5 ha dedicated to annual crops would need to work off-farm
to achieve a monthly income of R$500 and would have to plant at least 50% of the
irrigated area with fruits to satisfy basic needs with resources from the farm. Models
with plantations of bananas and coconut would achieve full development in Year 9 but
gross income would already have exceeded Year 0 at the beginning of Year 2.
37.   In the annual crops only case, the cost of water based on a tariff of R$ 15 per
1,000 m3 would represent between 8% and 9% of the costs of production (excluding the
cost of family labor) and in the case incorporating fruits in 50% of the area, around 13% -
- banana has high water demands. Conversion of conventional sprinkler irrigation
systems to localized systems such as micro-sprinklers or drip irrigation in fruit and
vegetable production would permit savings of approximately 15% in water consumption.
Initially, farmers would irrigate their plantations with sprinkler systems installed by the
Project. However, in the medium-term, these more flexible localized irrigation methods
would be installed, emulating the example of producers in other irrigation projects in the
Sao Francisco Valley but also implying a new round of irrigation investmiients. Credit is
essential (with grace periods of two years for banana-and four years for coconut) for the
integrated development of productive units through the conversion of irrigation systems
to localized methods, soil improvement, basic storage infrastructure and other
inputs/measures.
38.   Field Survey Results. As outlined in OED (1998), farm-level analyses by the
Consortia supported by data from FUNDAJ field surveys show monthly average incomes
for 3 ha irrigated plots of about US$280, ranging from US$250 at Borda do Lago in both
23  For detailed budgets see Consultants' Study: Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project:
Evaluation of Works Financed by the Bank, (P. Anguita and M. Raczynski, 1998).



- 13 -
Pemambuco and Bahia, to US$400 at Brigida, the first of the Special Schemes to receive
water (1993).24 Other sources of income reported by OED (1998) include pensions, and
average income from all other sources is about US$140 per month. Average monthly
cash incomes for 3 ha farmers are about US$420 or US$650 with VMT.
39.    The F'roject SAR had estimated much higher monthly averages: about US$350
(ranging fromn US$4,000 to US$4,400 per year from a 3 ha plot, depending on location).
OED observes that while falling short of original appraisal projections, these results
actually compare quite favorably with other Bank-supported irrigation schemes.
Moreover, as already stated for the illustrative models case above, these results are
substantially better than pre-project farm incomes. At Jaiba in the State of Minas Gerais,
5 ha irrigated plots are averaging UJS$420 (US$5,000) per year, the equivalent of US$250
per month on 3 ha plots. Of critical importance however, Jaiba irrigators are paying the
costs of water and other operation and maintenance (O&M) while Itaparica producers are
not.
40.    However, it should be noted that these figures refer to a 3 ha farmer; farmers with
4.5 ha and 6 ha plots would get better results, while (as shown by the Borrower's case),
farmers with only 1.5 ha could not survive from the farm alone and would be obliged to
work off-farm. Data is based on cash sales under unorganized and insecure marketing
arrangements, further threatened by accelerating pest infestation and rising costs, all of
which reduce profits. Marketing is restricted by poor roads and security problems along
large stretches of road, especially in Pernambuco. Also flagged in the Consultants'
Report, yields are declining to irreversible levels in the absence of systematic fertilizer
usage and better crop husbandry. Fertilizer (organic and inorganic) is expensive at
Itaparica and incomes are too low to justify needed expenditure even with credit. The
Consultants' Report recommends: technical assistance to develop livestock operations on
community g:razing lands, inter alia for organic fertilizer production to amend soils.
Drainage and better water management are essential; drainage problems currently affect
over 4,000 ha of farmland at Itaparica but the latest supervision mission noted that
drainage systems are already under construction in selected areas of affected sites.25
41.    Real Costs of Production. Of central importance, farmers are not yet paying for
irrigation water even though the appraisal team assumed they would pay part of this and
other O&M costs from the beginning, and all farm families continue to receive the
monthly maintenance payment. Thus the modest indicators of improved income are not a
true picture when one looks at the real costs of production. Costs of energy to deliver
water are exceptionally high at Itaparica (about US$40 per 1,000 mi3), greatly exceeding
24  Surveys by the ATER Consortia outlined in their annual report (1996) show average monthly income
as follows: Brigida US$650.00; Pedra Branca US$490.00; and Borda do Lago PE/BA, US$570.00,
without VMIT but including the cost of family labor.
25  Through IICA, a technical assistance firm was recently contracted to develop a pilot for the Gloria
project which seeks to implement key recommendations of the Consultants' Report with respect to
TA for organic fertilizer production. The pilot includes raising of cattle, goats and chickens and
implementation of an organic fertilizer plant managed by the community. Banco do Nordeste has
confirmed its interest in financing this pilot for Gloria and the credit application process is underway.



- 14-
costs at CODEVASF schemes near Petrolina (US$15/m3) and Jaiba (US$18/m3). Even
with permanent subsidies, which Government has accepted in principle, tariffs will
reduce net incomes of farmers by about US$40 per month (which will decline as farmers
shift to fruit). Successfully shifting to fruit and the hoped-for improvement in farm
incomes will depend on exceptional technical performance by farmers including rigorous
adoption of extension messages. The Consultants' Study sees this as problematic.
Competence, motivation, access to inputs and good soil management practices would
sustain these schemes, which implies among other things, removing artificial barriers to
land sales to promote an influx of farming skills. However, it is important to note that
farmers themselves feel that they would not have problems with the technology for fruit
cultivation and that they can take on this task immediately. However, they want CHESF
to pay all necessary investment costs for the required conversion of their irrigation
systems.
42.   Alternative Employment. CHESF made little attempt other than the brief period
of paid on-farm land clearing, to sponsor organized income-generating activities. Early
Bank missions looked at alternative employment options but the issue was never
considered strategically as an integral longer-term factor in sustainability.26 The VMT has
been tacitly seen (including by the Bank)2 as filling that gap although the implications of
prolonged inactivity/unemployment are widely acknowledged. Contractors building the
irrigation works were generally unwilling to hire unskilled workers and found a high
proportion ofjob applicants unfit on health grounds. Those hired were let go as soon as
shortages of funding caused construction contracts to falter. The idea of introducing
rainfed cropping ran into a series of obstacles relating to the schedule for land clearing,
delineation of individual plots and installation of on-farm distribution systems. Families
also feared the onset of drought which would negate their clearing and planting efforts,
and preferred to exist on the VMT. The important issue of fisheries development is
described separately. It is clear that a strategic plan for alternative/varied income
generation in resettlement schemes is a sine qua non.
43.   Urban Wellbeing. Urban resettlers are assumed to have been absorbed into the
social and economic life of the new towns and their welfare is now a municipal
responsibility. Most urban resettlers have received land title but little else is known about
them. Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation were foreseen only for the rural
resettlement component. The current income status of urban resettlers relative to pre-
relocation is not known. The Bank has recommended that information be gathered on the
income status of the urban resettlers. Much can be learnt from a systematic study of their
experiences which have not been uniform between the four new towns. In general,
Petrolandia and Rodelas, both on the lake side and with good road connections to other
centers, appear to be doing well, whereas Tarrachil and Itacuruba, relocated to well-
equipped but poorly-sited areas in terms of the regional network, have stagnated.
26  OED (1998) addresses this issue well, and notes one other exception being efforts by the Consortia to
increase exploitation of the resettlers' traditional dryland enterprises, such as goat herding.
27  See Management Response to the Request for Inspection, April 22, 1997.



- 15-
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
44.   A potent mix of financial, technical, institutional and political factors contributed
to the Projecit's difficulties. Government was unable to provide timely and adequate
counterpart funds, the Bank Loan was too small, and the Project encountered massive
cost overruns. Technical problems have included difficulties in designing some of the
irrigation perimeters and unforeseen engineering problems with the main conveyance
systems bringing water to the irrigation sites. Social and institutional problems have
included the corrosive effects of prolonged unemployment especially in the three western
projects (Caraibas, Pedra Branca and Brigida) on sites further from the river or reservoir
and dependant on rainfed agriculture until irrigation systems are ready. Serious problems
have persisted with the maintenance and/or delivery of social services (health and
education), regional security, road maintenance and transportation, although there have
been recent breakthroughs.
45.   Like most of the Bank's Brazil portfolio in the same period, the Itaparica Project
was profound[ly affected by political and economic changes from 1988 to 1994 which
saw adoption of a new Brazilian constitution, far-reaching administrative reforms in the
public sector, and high rates of inflation/macroeconomic instability. Dam construction
was initiated during military rule, but the resettlement portion was planned and
implemented following restoration of democratic government which saw the
empowerment of popular movements, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and labor
unions favoring the rights of populations affected by hydroelectric schemes. However,
once the reservoir was filled, political interest in the Itaparica resettlement faded and
pressure on Government abated.
46.   Stage I of the resettlement program was handled with impressive speed and
efficiency, involving the construction of four new towns and 126 agrovilas (106 Bank-
financed) and transfer of families and their possessions including livestock. Private
contractors worked intensively in 1987 and the first part of 1988 to complete roads and
other public utilities, houses, schools and other public buildings. At urban sites, CHESF
relocated some 52 state and federal buildings. Overall, construction was higher quality
than the infrastructure it replaced and living conditions are much improved. The urban
portion for the most part conformed to original schedules and cost around R$ 167.0
million or about R$38,000 per family.
47.   Rural lpopulations were prepared for the adjustment, organized for the move and
given counseling as needed by some 37 three-person teams of social workers, agricultural
personnel and field assistants. Preparation included: (i) communications campaigns and
familiarization visits of resettlers to sites; (ii) definition of the type/size of house for
which each family was eligible; (iii) inventory of household goods, equipment and
livestock to be transferred; (iv) ratification of settlement agreements by each family to be
transferred; (v) consolidation of community resettlement plans including definition of
neighborhood clusters; (vi) distribution of irrigated lots in accordance with community
preferences; (vii) arrangements and timing for actual transfer of families and their
belongings and their reception at resettlement sites; and (viii) social services teams to



- 16-
explain, troubleshoot and facilitate settling in of families. With new houses, electricity
and running water, living conditions of most resettlers are superior.
48.   The history of Stage II is quite different. This phase consists of providing
irrigation water through pressurized pipes to sprinkler systems installed on demarcated
lots ranging from 1.5 ha to 6.0 ha. Almost ten years after farmers moved into the
agrovilas and nine years later than the planned completion date, this stage is ongoing and
the productive infrastructure required to achieve project objectives as originally
envisaged is available to just over 3,122 families, 69% of the Bank-financed total.
49.   The earliest recipient of water (1988) was Manga de Baixo, a small project of 25
plots, not Bank-financed. A second group of schemes, Bank-financed, -- Borda do Lago
Bahia and Borda do Lago Pernambuco -- entered the production phase in 1993 due to
accelerated construction during a watershed year of disbursements, the direct result of a
temporary increase in the Bank's disbursement percentage for civil works from 28% to
100%. By early 1994, Pedra Branca and Brigida had also started operations. In
December 1997, 375 plots of the large Caraibas Scheme started to receive water. An
August 1998 Bank mission reported that Caraibas is making sustained progress with
some 400 ha per month being opened for production. As of September 30, about 50% is
operational28 and the first group of farmers has harvested beans, water melons and other
crops. The remaining Bank-financed schemes (Barreiras Block 2 and Itacoatiara)
variously include problems with the invasion of squatters, studies still ongoing for soil
conservation and environmental preservation, or adaptations underway for fruit
cultivation. Recent information indicates that while Barreiras Block 2 is likely to be
completed, other areas (based on Government's Plan) have alternative solutions under
negotiation including cash compensation and assisted relocation.
50.   The construction schedule could not be maintained due to CHESF's inability to
obtain sufficient Bank and counterpart funds. First, the original Loan of US$132.0
million was too low due to errors at preparation and appraisal in estimating and
predicting costs and exchange rates in Brazil's inflationary economy of 1986 and 1987.
Second, energy shortages persisted in the Northeast despite supplies from Itaparica.
Consequently Government, ELETROBRAS and CHESF felt obliged to concentrate
limited funds on construction of a larger hydroelectric dam further down the Sao
Francisco at Xingo. Third, fiscal and macroeconomic crises drained Government
resources and eroded official commitment to projects of any priority up to 1994, when
the Real Plan successfully stabilized the economy, sharply reduced inflation and breathed
new life into the project. Fourth, costs expanded as further technical studies identified
schemes/parts of schemes where physical conditions were less suitable for irrigation than
earlier estimated and this increased costs of retaining them in the project or finding
substitutes. Finally, costs also rose due to late payment of contractors, their resulting
demobilization followed by remobilization when contract negotiations were revived.
Delays increased costs and put further pressure on the resource deficit causing the
28  The term "operational" means that at minimum, plots have on-farm irrigation systems installed and
tested.



- 17-
delays.29 Diuring this long period, rural families have been properly housed in the
agrovilas and have received regular maintenance payments but in view of project
objectives, obviously this is not a satisfactory substitute.
51.    Stage III involved the provision of agricultural and social support services over
five years extending to 1993. CHESF transferred to CODEVASF in 1990 responsibility
for implementing social services, training, TA and production plannling on behalf of
resettlers. Contracting of expertise to provide these services was difficult. Txvo firms in
consortium with national and foreign firms won the bidding but agreellment could not be
reached with CODEVASF and CHESF and a local effort was mounted to provide TA to
farmers, with limited scope and success due to scarce budget.
52.    The agreements with the Consortia (which divided responsibility between the
Borda do Lago and Special Schemes) were finally signed in 1992 but service provision
was beset by operational difficulties: (i) demands for TA were exceptionally high due to
the inexperience of resettled farmers; (ii) activities needed to be started before irrigation
schemes were constructed. Lack of plots under irrigation meant training was conducted
on small family plots with insufficient water to provide adequate learning. The result is
that a signiJ'icant number of producers are operating their irrigation systems witlhout
adequate training; (iii) lack of an effective validation system for production systems; (iv)
many resettlers lacked interest in participating due to long delays in project execution and
steady payrnent of the VMT which exceeded the previous income of most; (v) difi'ering
priorities of'CODEVASF and P6lo Sindical and the pressure exerted by the latter on the
farmers; (vi) soil problems which caused the re-design of certain systems; and (vii) low
participation of the international consultants in program execution.:30
53.    The Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Program (ATER) was massive and
unusually costly (assessed by the Consultants' Study at around US$1,100 to US$2.400
per family/year, including administrative costs), but was unable to reach a critical mass of
farmers. The basic objective of reaching all the resettled farmers was llawed. Attention
should have focused on the 15% or so of farmers generally open to inniovationi. Support
from agricultural extension institutions and universities would have improved the
program. The Bank persisted in trying to improve it but the contracts were finallv
terminated in 1997. The Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA)
was contracted by CHESF to provide ATER services through direct contracting of local
expertise. IICA is working jointly with P6lo Sindical to support and advise newly
forming/formed Water User Associations (in the form of cooperatives) and ClIESF is
legally committed to provide subprojects with five years of technical assistance from
production start-up.  It is estimated that all subprojects will have at least one
cooperative by end-December, 1998.
29  OED: Recent Experience with Involuntary Resettlement-Brazil: Itaparica Case Study, March 1998.
30  Consultcnts' Study, 1998, op. cit.
3 1  First, the five-year term is based on research evidence from other similar schemes as to what
constitutes a minimum period of TA likely to induce results. The 5-year benefit under the project is



- 18-
54.    Social Infrastructure and Services. Given the precarious state of social
infrastructure in both urban and rural sectors of Itaparica prior to dam filling, the Project
went further than replacement, building infrastructure to a higher, ideal standard.
Remotely located agrovilas created additional demand for schools and health centers. In
urban areas, a large number of municipal, state and federal buildings were constructed for
education, health, postal service, telecommunications, police and cemeteries. For rural
areas, the Project built 84 schools (65 Bank-financed) and 16 healtlh posts (I I Bank-
financed), financed training for teachers and health personnel and shared financing of
salaries and wages on a declining scale (now completed), with State Education and
Health Secretariats. Programs of social assistance formed part of the technical
assistance and rural extension (ATER) program delivered by contracted private
consulting firms.
55.    Project-financed schools have suffered the same constraints as rural schools
throughout Bahia and Pernambuco. Selected teachers generally hailed from cities
offering the best preparation but once selected for the rural post, sought rapid transfer to
cities and urban areas causing a high rotation rate in the aigrovilcas, partial or complete
paralysis of many schools and increased transportation of students to neighboring school
areas. CHESF was transporting students to primary and secondary schools sometimes 25
km daily compared to the original project goal of distances not exceeding 3 km. Similar
conditions affected the health posts. CHESF and later CODEVASF assumed
responsibility for two paramedics per post, weekly visits of doctors and dentists and
operation of an ambulance. The State Governments of Bahia and Pernambuco had until
recently, resisted taking any responsibility for roads and social services and Project
design did not include measures for ensuring their participation. While services are
superior to previous conditions, they require important improvements to reach
satisfactory standards. Strong efforts are needed to incorporate these services into the
normal budget/system of each state. Recent developments look promising. The State of
Pernambuco has taken over new schools within its jurisdiction and regular classes have
started. In Bahia, basic education is now a municipal responsibility and regular classes in
schools built by the project will start in January 1999. CHESF has funded the
construction of police security posts in both states and the states are funding recurrent
cost to maintain those posts.
56.  Project Costs. Costs and financing have been higlhly problematic f'eatures of this
Project. Estimated total costs of the Bank-financed Project more than doubled between
Appraisal and Closing, from US$304 million - of'which the Bank was to finance
US$132.0 million or 43.5% -- to around US$738.8 million.32 The 1987 appraisal
estimated costs per rural family at US$37,500. The current estimated full cost of the
fixed and not tied to performance. It is assumed that cooperatives/associations will subsequently
contract TA as needed. Second, CHESF has had difficulties establishing a uniform date for TA start-
up from which the five years is counted. The clock will now start running from the date farmers
receive their protective gear for chemicals/pesticide application and have to sign a dated receipt for
the kit.
32 Costs of the total "Program" are currently estimated at some US$1.0 billion with an estimated
additional US$210.0 million needed for completion.



- 19 -
Itaparica resettlement including additional non-Bank-financed settlements, land
acquisitions and real asset compensation is around US$1.2 billion or between
US$103,000 and US$148,000 per family, depending on what is included/excluded (Table
15). Unit costs per family and per hectare of the irrigation component were
US$29,950/US$8,720 at original appraisal (1987) and about US$86,000/US$25,150 at
Closing (end-1997), respectively. CHESF data suggests actual costs for urban resettlers
are much lower at around US$36,000 per family and total cost of the urban operation was
close to estimates, at just over US$100.0 million. The three main components of the cost
issue are discussed below.
57.    Exchange Rates and Inflation: As revised at the time of Board approval of the
Supplemental Loan in early 1990, total project cost showed an overrun exceeding 100%
(and closer to 150% for irrigation systems, the Loan's major investment component). At
that time, the five irrigation subprojects were estimated to cost about US$18,570 per ha
and had riser to around US$62,000 per family, almost three times the average for public
irrigation schtemes in the Northeast.33 The Borrower (ELETROBRAS) and its
implementing agency (CHESF) did not update their April 1987 cost estimate to June
1987 in a period of high inflation; and the Bank appraisal mission erred in using the
exchange rate in force at negotiations instead of the rate at appraisal. In order to
determine the basis for a proposed Supplemental Loan, the Bank commissioned an
analysis of thie background and status of the Project.
58.   It was found that the apparent cost overrun did not derive from increased project
works, goods or services but from: (i) use of the October 1987 rate (negotiations) of
CZ$51.7:US$1.00 instead of the June 1987 (appraisal) rate of Cz$39.4:US$1.00; (ii)
costs used during the June 1987 appraisal mission were actually current costs of April
1987, which went unnoticed by the Bank until some five months after the Project was
approved; and (iii) after October 1987, construction costs rose faster than the rate of
cruzado devaluation. The first two factors caused an initial substantial understatement of
dollar project: costs, while the last factor indicated escalating unit dollar costs. Repeated
revisions of total Project cost in the first two years demonstrated the difficulties inherent
in making reliable dollar cost estimates in the context of inflation and erratic exchange
rates.34
59.    As noted in Serra (1993), estimation problems and the high costs of providing
water to areas isolated from the primary watercourse account for only part of this result.:'
According to the MOP for the Supplemental Loan, about half the cost overrun was due to
33  Serra 1993, op. cit.
34  MOP for Supplemental Loan, and Serra (1993).
35  It is acknowledged that the irrigation technology chosen was sophisticated and costly compared to
surface irrigation systems in Brazil and other developing countries but specialists maintain that these
systems were appropriate and least cost for the physical conditions. However, it is also clear that the
sophisticat:ion was influenced by P6oo Sindical's negotiations and Bank requirements/resettlement
policy. Serra (1993) and Kirmani (1989) concur that the standards and costs at which restoration of
incomes and living conditions were to be provided represented the opportunity cost to CHESF of
clearing the reservoir area in order to start power generation on time.



- 20 -
the initial understatement of costs. Other significant reasons included: (i) delays in
obtaining resettlers' agreement on guidelines and proposals for the relocation; (ii)
negotiation under social tension and political pressure to start power generation, limiting
thoughtful discussion of acceptable alternatives; (iii) the choice of sites and technology;
(iv) strong settlers' union with intemational backing; (v) preparation and implementation
delays; and (iv) more accurate calculation of full resettlement costs. Costs also escalated
as more detailed topographical and soil data indicated the need for revised construction
designs. Inter-agency conflict and lack of government commitment also delayed
implementation, pushing up costs.
60.   Counterpart Funds and Cost Escalation. Macroeconomic instability in the late
1980s and early 1990s witnessed historically high rates of inflation and a budget
allocation process whereby budgets approved early in the year were not released until
close to year-end. Itaparica competed with Xingo -- a new hydro-electric scheme
downstream from Itaparica -- and Government's foreign debt service obligations. The
income of ELETROBRAS fluctuated when its subsidiaries failed to make remittances,
leaving the parent chronically delayed in its funding of the project, a situation eventually
resulting in the Bank temporarily suspending disbursements of the Loan in late 1990.
The resulting shortage of counterpart funds retarded the pace of construction and
disrupted the contracting process through repeated demobilization and remobilization of
contractors, all of which increased costs.
61.   Estimation at appraisal of costs and the timetable for completion of complex
irrigation schemes (by 1988) were unrealistic. Kirmani (1989) wrote a detailed and
candid analysis of the costs issue as background for the Supplemental Loan but
concluded that the Bank was blameless, the errors resulting from an honest mistake in the
selection of exchange rates and the unexpectedly high inflation rate. However, appraisal
estimates of inflation seem unduly optimistic, especially in the Brazilian context of
repeated inflationary cycles. The SAR (para. 3.49) states overall price contingencies at
2% of baseline costs, estimated in US dollars based on expected inflation rates of 3% for
1987, 1% for the years 1988 to 1990 and 4% annually thereafter.
62.   Recurrent Cost Financing. Another major issue is recurrent cost linancing.
The devolution of financial and institutional responsibilities for health, education and
roads to state and municipal authorities has been a thorny, longstanding issue which is
only now getting the support its needs. It was assumed that agreements could be easily
reached and no strategy or measures were included to guarantee state and local support.
With Government bearing the costs of a wide range of services in Itaparica, states and
localities have stood back. Political factors have also been important. Significant
compensation for the effects of the dam was paid to municipalities under Brazilian laws
enacted in 1989 and 1990 but obviously the time to consider "earmarking" a portion of
that compensation to cover social services and roads has long gone. The Bank and
CHESF should have been more aggressive in securing official support. Social services
have not functioned well for lack of basic personnel, equipment and supplies, and many
roads throughout Itaparica are in poor condition. Expenditures on road construction and
rehabilitation were only a fraction of plan.



- 21 -
E. SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
63.    Sustaining this Project depends on a mix of financial, technical, social and
political factors and time is once again an element as Government seeks to complete the
Project, achieve its original objectives, and extricate CHESF for privatization, now slated
for 1999. The Project is currently controlled by the Chamber for Infrastructure Policies
(CIP) linked directly to the Presidency. Government's involvement was prompted partly
by changes in Brazilian law affecting CHESF's ability to continue financing investments
related to hydro-electric plants and partly to avoid an incomplete Itaparica Project
becoming an obstacle to its privatization. Government's strategy has remained
consistent. All operational subprojects will receive technical assistance and extension to
foster their organization and ability to manage independently. Subprojects at an
advanced staige will be completed (including Barreiras Block 2) and adopt the same
procedures for TA and extension. Subprojects still under study or in initial phase of
implementation are unlikely to be continued. For the latter cases, Government through
GERPI is negotiating with families to reach solutions which might include relocation to
other irrigation schemes and/or cash compensation. Government is willing to be the
catalyst with Federal and State agencies to improve social and other services in the
project area. Government has estimated that to bring Itaparica to completion will require
about US$210.0 million including technical assistance for activities related to self-
management and productive viability. Government has reiterated its commitment to
36
provide those funds. The available budget for Brazilian FY98 is R$169.0 million
64.   Despite Government's sustained support and funding availability, progress in
reaching agreement on key issues affecting the hand-over and future sustainability has
been slow, complicated by the electoral season. Tension has been increasing between
GERPI and Polo Sindical over control of the negotiating process, as agreement on
strategic issues has hitherto failed to emerge. 37 This struggle has affected the transfer of
responsibility to farmers' associations through its effects on the ATER program which
has in recent months been jointly-managed by CHESF, IICA and P6lo Sindical.
Professionals contracted for field implementation of ATER have been delivering a
distinctly political message which has conveyed the erroneous impression that IICA is
not in step with its client, CHESF. The following sets out a series of issues affecting
Project sustainability.
65.   Credit. Proper farm development at Itaparica has always been dependent on
credit since rnost resettlers arrived without capital either from savings or compensation
packages. This situation has persisted and schemes entering production in 1993 had to
operate without credit. Even today, few farmers are receiving credit although the flow is
increasing, but none are receiving investment credit, which is dependent on title
collateral. Only a fraction of rural families have so far received their title. The proposed
36 This budget has since be adjusted - see progress report.
37 Major progress in the negotiations between GERPI and settlers was announced just as this report was
being sent: to the Printer and developments are detailed in the complementary Progress Report to the
Board.



- 22 -
massive shift to fruit is heavily dependent on credit.38 The Bank sought during
preparation to have Project funds earmarked for farm credit but Government insisted on
withdrawing this component, maintaining that credit would flow through PROINE, which
served other Northeast irrigation projects. As Government's lines of farm credit dried up
throughout the Northeast, this did not happen. Recently, the Bank of Northeast Brazil
(BNB) with ELETROBRAS funding, initiated group credits (individual loans guaranteed
by the group) for specific enterprises. Possession of title will mean farmers can access
credit individually.
66.   Operation and Maintenance. Financing for operation and maintenance (O&M)
is still under negotiation between the irrigation subprojects and GERPI. O&M comprises
a technical function which CODEVASF is handling in a satisfactory manner, and the cost
of energy. Energy costs currently amount to about R$4.0 million per year and are
expected to reach R$7.0 to 8.0 million per year at final development of all irrigation
subprojects. CHESF has negotiated a reduction in the cost of energy from the previous
R$90.0 to 110.0/kwh to a "green" tariff (tarifa verde) for rural energy of R$30.0 to
40.0/kwh, although Itaparica farmers are expected to pay not more than R$20.0/kwh, the
remainder being subsidized by Government, probably permanently. It is expected that
irrigation water supply would be gradually reduced, matching the cropping patterns for
each plot.
67.   Farmers are generally well aware of the importance of assuming responsibility for
O&M but the demands of high tech farming may be beyond many. The complexities of
operating these systems should not be under-estimated. Systems are demand driven and
require well-qualified staff for effective functioning. It is expected that main and
secondary systems and pumping stations would need to be operated by specially-trained
professionals, possibly contracted in the future by an umbrella organization of several
cooperatives using the same system. Many families still have little idea of what this all
means, may never adapt and should be free to sell and relocate. P6lo Sindical supports
the autonomous management of systems by cooperatives but its broader agenda has
complicated the negotiations and revealed the need for non-politicized water/irrigation
districts to move away from the debate about which coops and associations are genuinely
representative for the O&M control function.
68.   Cost of Water. Collection of water charges is a difficult matter which may have
to be deferred until plots can fully sustain farm families, but opinions differ. Senior Bank
Management 39 has cautioned that involuntary resettlement does not mean that resettlers
have earned the right to be buffered against all risks until "stability" is achieved. Rather
they should be provided with the means to manage their irrigation systems and
production in such a way that normal risks can be managed. The Consultants' Study
(1998) makes a different case and describes resettlers' traditional farming practices to
illustrate the conceptual and practical leap: (i) land and water were abundant and free; (ii)
seeds and other inputs were obtained cost-free from the previous crop; (iii) water was
38 OED 1998, op. cit.
39 Memorandum, September 8, 1997.



- 23 -
captured by small pumps directly from the river and without the intervention of others;
and (iv) all income from production sold, discounted only by the cost of diesel fuel for
the pumps, (levolved to the producer.
69.   On this basis, the Study argues that the real cost of water should have been
factored into the appraisal of the economic and technical viability of the Project and
resettlers fully apprised of the value of the water they had previously used. CHESF
should have included in its costs of construction and operation of the plant. the costs of
works needed to capture, lift and carry the water, as well as the costs of O&M and
administration of those systems. Processes for the optimal and efficient use of those
water resources should have been the responsibility of the users, who in this case were
not consulted. Finally, in the case of secondary and tertiary conveyance canals, CHESF
should have absorbed the costs of implementation and part of the energy required for
their operation, devolving to users the administrative, operational and maintenance
costs.
70.   Marketing. Organized marketing arrangements including storage facilities and
forward contracts have been neglected by everyone. All attention has been focused on
the irrigation works. The project has lacked an agricultural production and marketing
strategy which is crucial for project success and remains to be developed, leaving
farmers' production vulnerable to the price and other important effects of ad hoc
marketing eiforts.  The SAR gives brief attention to this issue stating that "a marketing
study carriecl out by project consultants showed that this production could be marketed
without major difficulties" and "if marketing constraints for tomatoes (seen as the main
commercial crop) materialize in the future, tomatoes could be replaced by garlic or
cotton".41 With the delays in irrigation works and agricultural production at Itaparica,
marketing opportunities in the Northeast and metropolitan regions of Sao Paulo, Belo
Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro noted at appraisal have since been filled by product from
other irrigation schemes along the river including Petrolina-Juazeiro.
71.    Future of Annual Crops. Total irrigated area at Itaparica in 1997 was about
6,600 ha of which fruit plantations accounted for just 390 ha. Traditional annual crops
such as beans, tomatoes, onions and water melon, dominated. Productivity in the Bordcac
do Lago schemes is declining for onions and tomatoes.42 In the Special Schemes, tomato
productivity has also decreased. Inadequate fertilization and control of pests and disease
explains declining fertility. Yields will not improve without a major effort to improve
soil fertility through organic materials and green manure, complemented by efficient
campaigns to fight pest outbreaks. The influx of White Fly (mosca branca) threatens
future cultivation of tomatoes throughout the region. In general, any future plans to
develop fruil plantations must take preventative measures to control pests. Lack of
credit is responsible for many of these problems, constraining development of modern
40  Consultants' Study, op. cit.
41  SAR para 3.40. The future for cotton in the Northeast was increasingly clouded by the influx of
bicudo and falling prices.
42  Tomato productivity usually declines after the first and second crops, anywhere in the world.



- 24 -
integrated farming systems, use of farm machinery and purchase of inputs. The
economic viability of annual crops is doubtful and implies indefinite subsidization of
energy costs. The profitability of short-cycle crops is insufficient to cover operational
costs of irrigation and agricultural inputs and guarantee the survival of farm families.43
Many of these problems are not inherent to Itaparica but to Brazilian agriculture overall
(and indeed, farming worldwide).
72.   Fruits. The shift to fruits is already underway but implies large additional
investments for: re-tooling of the sprinkler-based irrigation systems depending on the
type of fruit grown in order simplify them and reduce operational costs: a massive TA
and training program for farmers; secure and timely credit; and marketing. storage,
packaging and transportation facilities. The report of the Inter-Ministerial Group asserts
that fruits are probably the only way to generate employment in sufficient volume to
overcome serious socio-economic problems in the region and sees its role as converting
Itaparica into an important regional development pole. The Consultants' Study tempers
this assessment, stating that soil conditions imply a continued important role for
horticultural and other annual crops.
73.   Cooperative Development. Sustainability is critically dependent on
establishment of strong cooperatives/water user organizations for each irrigation
subproject capable of assuming a full range of functions including technical assistance,
training, operation and maintenance, marketing and purchase of inputs. Cooperatives and
associations already established in each irrigation scheme are being groomed to take over
these functions. The Consultants' Study strongly recommends that the financial and
administrative aspects of O&M be separated off from the cooperative in order to
guarantee the sustainability of irrigation and drainage systems which could otherwise lose
priority within an entity with multiple roles.
74.   Roads. Maintenance of roads is critical for marketing, especially of fruit but
state and municipal governments have shown little interest. The rural road component
included the improvement of about 170 km of gravel-surfaced roads and the construction
of some 1,400 km of new roads to the same specifications. During negotiations, CHESF
provided assurances that within six months after signing the Loan Agreement satisfactory
arrangements would be made with state and municipal authorities for the maintenance of
this system. In reality, barely US$274,000 (April 92 prices) were spent in 1991 on rural
roads and nothing thereafter. The deteriorated state of many roads in the Project area is
becoming a major obstacle for marketing of products from those schemes already in
operation. Producers at Pedra Branca in Bahia for example, must barge their product
across river to Pernambuco to pick up the road because planned roads in Bahia were not
built and there is no political interest in servicing the area bordering the Sao Francisco
and Itaparica.
75.   Soil quality must be addressed if the productive base is to be sustainable. Soil
erosion is a serious problem in limited, specific areas, originating in most cases with early
43 CODEVASF analysis showed that most farmers would be unable to bear their full operational costs
even after the full 5 years of technical assistance.



- 25 -
land clearance in anticipation of timely irrigation systems completion, i.e., within the
twelve months planned. Damage is severe in Barreiras Block 2 (2,036 ha) and relocation
has been under debate.44 Soil productivity is also fragile in many subprojects and entails
large, regular applications of fertilizer. However, soil salinization does not appear to be a
major problem. Sustainability of the irrigation systems is dependent on introduction of
production systems and practices which permit improvement and maintenance of soil
fertility. This can be achieved through liberal use of green manure and its inclusion in
crop rotations. Because green manure is relatively scarce in the Itaparica area
production systems incorporating livestock and oriented to the production of meat, milk
and manure for soil enhancement are essential.
76.    Land Titling and Sales. Project rules sought to prevent land sales for five years
after receipt of title. CHESF has been providing farmers with provisional documentation
to all .w access to agricultural credit covering full production costs (but only US$600 for
investment). Under Government's plan to intensify efforts towards self-management,
rural titling has accelerated but a majority of rural resettlers still await title.45 The plan
until recently was to deliver some 2,600 titles by end-1998 and the remainder by end-
1999. However, most titles currently being processed have a series of legal steps still
pending (e.g.., INCRA approval). In addition, P6lo Sindical has opposed title delivery --
which represents a huge step towards genuine self-management and independence -- by
advocating the view that title signifies severance from the project and the end of benefits,
a message rooted in P6lo Sindical's broader goals for the area.
77.    P6lo Sindical is advocating to retain the "five-year rule." This concept is at odds
with Governrnent's preference for greater flexibility (citing the successful Petrolina-
Juazeiro experience) which would permit a mixture of small, medium and larger farms
and marketinIg arrangements which include and give confidence to smaller producers.
Concerned that rapid sales after title delivery might result in the essential small farmer
character of Itaparica being eroded (which is possible), P6lo Sindical has asked CHESF
and the Ministry of Mines and Energy to establish norms for titling whereby: (i) sales
after five yea:rs require authorization of the relevant cooperative; (ii) that sales actually be
made to the group or its cooperative; (iii) the cooperative would participate in all aspects
of the sale; (iv) the sale should cover all aspects of the holding, i.e., irrigated plot, dryland
grazing area, the legal reserve, and the house and lot in the agrovila; and (v) no resettler
or person acquiring plots can own more than 12 irrigated ha. 6
4Barreiras Block 2 will be built. With insufficient plots for all families, some 30% are likely negotiate
alternative compensation, while 70% wish to remain. Government is developing a plan for
transferring funds to project associations for implementation. Government would monitor and
provide TA during construction. P6lo Sindical is reluctant to accept this proposal.
45  Some US$9.5 million were allocated to titling in 1998 and US$8.5 million earmarked to complete the
program in 1999.
46  Letter from P61o Sindical to CHESF, Min. Mines and Energy and the Presidency, July 5, 1998. The
letter deals specifically with the Brigida scheme. P6lo has also asked CHESF to expel squatters
preventing settlers from exploiting dryland areas (sequeiro) and has requested the demarcation of
those areas for administration/use by groups of 10-15 settlers.



- 26 -
78.    Maintenance Payments (VMT). CHESF has to date found it impossible to
withdraw VMT even for families already producing, partly because certain promised
benefits have not been delivered and because many smaller farm families are (ustifiably)
concerned that their production alone will be insufficient to sustain a livelihood without
the supplement. All parties including Government see the political and moral difficulty
of removing a payment which has become an entitlement under circumstances which
were never envisaged and which has generated strong (and undesirable) dependence.47
OED (1998) cites the case of para-rurals receiving the same monthly check whether they
are irrigating or not and regardless of any other work they have found in the towns.48
79.    Environment. Assessment of project environmental impact was done ex-post as
opposed to the inventory and feasibility stages of the Project. This made its
recommendations difficult to apply operationally, especially with the reservoir filled and
resetl'ement accomplished. While the assessment contained an environmental
monitoring plan, there was little indication of how it would be carried out and in practice,
(with several exceptions including the Tuxa. and concerns about erosion and drainage in
some subprojects) environmental monitoring has had little priority. Systematic analysis
of water quality, fisheries, public healtlh and sanitation, endemic disease control, or
environmental safeguards in irrigation and agriculture has been modest. However, good
restults have been observed from the efforts by ATER providers and social teams over
several years. through multiple, small and repetitive actions designed to instil
environmental consciousness in resettlers. Actions include: recycling of household
materials; organized waste/garbage disposal; rational use of resources on common lands;
on-farm soil and water management; organic gardens in schools and agrovilas;
prohibitions on burning-off, selective land clearing; use of protective equipment for agro-
chemical spraying; and instruction on protection of regional flora and fauna.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
80.    In sharp contrast to the sense of achievement felt by many Bank staff upon
approval of this Project in 1987 -- a unique, free-standing and participatory resettlement
operation closely reflecting new and progressive Bank policy -- its execution and
outcome have been disappointing and subject to criticism. While justified in some
respects, this criticism has been leveled ex post without a full understanding of the
47  Back to Office Report of July 19, 1988 notes the case of Manga do Baixo (Borda do Lago,
Pernambuco), not Bank-financed, which started a pilot production area as early as 1988 and was
receiving TA from a private consulting firm contracted by CHESF. Initial results/yields were
encouraging. CHESF provided inputs for the first crop but farmers were expected to bear this cost for
subsequent crops. BTO notes: "Morale of the group is high and has not been affected by suspension
of payment of the 2.5 minimum salaries after the first crop.....". In direct contrast, the non-Bank-
financed subproject Apol6nio Salles, which overcame difficult soil conditions (main reason for its
rejection by soil experts in 1987) and feels vindicated by its promising horticultural enterprise, is now
claiming retro-active payment of VMT for the 5 years when the group struggled without water or
VMT.
48  Moreover, the economies of surrounding towns have become dependent on regular VMT-based
spending by resettlers.



- 27 -
financial, political, technical and institutional difficulties encountered during project
execution. Bank commitment to this operation is beyond doubt. The Bank supported
CHESF and P6lo Sindical, facilitating and financing the transfer of around 45,000 people
with their belongings and livestock to new, fully serviced houses of superior quality, in
agrovilas and new urban centers, in record time with a minimum of problems and social
unrest.
81.   Project Supervision. The Bank fielded some 23 formal supervision missions and
numerous other special purpose/single issue missions. Missions were generally multi-
skilled and supervision was intense.49 The thorny nature of many problems prevented the
Bank from always resolving them successfully or rapidly. The quality of mission
reporting w,as exceptionally high. Annual supervision time averaged 19 weeks
complemented by constant contact with CHESF and ELETROBRAS through informal
visits and other communications (see Table I 1). However, supervision and oversight of
the project may have suffered as a result of frequent changes of task manager around
1992-94, bul since then the project has had one task manager and the core project team
has remained unchanged. The Bank continues to supervise the Project under a special
arrangement with Government through end-1 999. The emphasis of more recent missions
has understandably been on irrigation works completion and providing guidance and
stimulus to the process of autonomous management, including operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems.
82.   With respect to the design of the project, since the Bank did not finance the dam
and entered the picture well after initiation of dam construction (1979), the issue of Bank
adherence to its own policy of planning resettlement to coincide with that construction
(OMS2.33) (does not arise. But the human need was great and CHESF's performance
record on resettlement at that time was poor. The Bank fully-respected all other relevant
policies in designing this project, but the process of conforming increased project
complexity and cost. The affected population participated actively in this process through
its representative P6lo Sindical, which sets this project apart from other Brazilian
resettlement operations and indeed others in and outside the region.
83.   The Bank's appraisal performance, with hindsight, was weakened by pressures
arising from the nature of the project, its context, and its timing. Further,
communications between the social, technical and economic specialists working on the
project, were not optimal. The estimation errors and cost overrun issues are already dealt
with in paras. 56-62. Assumptions underlying the economic analysis of the irrigation
schemes were too optimistic including: (i) the viability of farm models based on annual
crops; expectation that the entire irrigation works could be built in one year (1988);
sustained good yields expected from sandy, poor-quality soils; and fertilizers available at
49 It is noted that Management's Response to the Request for Inspection shows the Itaparica mission
skills mix as quite limited but a review of the supervision record shows that this reflects the Bank
practice of not "counting" consultant expertise on missions. Missions were diversely staffed and it
was only in the later years that irrigation engineers/water specialists predominated because the central
problem was incomplete irrigation works, and missions were understaffed due to acute shortages of
budget in the Bank for supervision..



-28 -
reasonable prices; (ii) assuming ready access to markets, and neglecting to design a
production and marketing strategy; and, (iii) among the most critical and sensitive aspects
of Itaparica, matching the requirements of high-tech irrigated commercial cropping
systems and the likely performance of what were mostly landless laborers. However,
shoring up these assumptions were the massive provision of technical assistance,
Government's promise of enough credit to support on-farm investments and operations,
and the apparent success with short-cycle crops at other CODEVASF and private
schemes near Petrolina.
84.   Assertions that the Bank had no control over the terms of the resettlement agreed
to by CHESF and P6lo Sindical in 1986 and that it lacked influence over site selection or
the choice of irrigation technology are not supported by a thorough reading of the record.
That the Bank came into the process too late for such a complex operation is not debated,
but the Bank itself shares responsibility for the lateness and the complexity.
85.   With regard to the related issue of generous entitlements and conditions for
relocation and settlement, evidence suggests that P6lo Sindical negotiated with CHESF
supported by a powerful ally imbued with the spirit of its new resettlement/social policies
but perhaps lacking sufficient experience with them to see that an overly generous
agreement could become a liability for project design, appraisal and execution. Further,
the Bank's close involvement in formulation of the Itaparica Resettlement Plan leading
up to Board approval of the First Power Sector Loan, and the June 1986 date of the first
Itaparica preparation mission (some six months prior to the CHESF/P6lo Sindical
Agreement), suggest it had the tools to influence that agreement (even ex post).
Indemnification offered earlier by CHESF was too small to be meaningful or attractive
and Project sponsors inherently preferred the land for land approach.
86.   It is questionable whether giving land for land instead of a fair compensation and
relocation assistance was the logical, efficient and adequate solution but alternatives had
low priority. Few Bank staff or managers were prepared to pit the cash compensation
idea against the land-for-land agricultural model (although a number openly favored it)
which adhered more closely to the Bank's new social/resettlement policies and allowed
the Bank to demonstrate that it had learnt from Sobradinho. The former might have
reduced the number of irrigation projects and areas to be irrigated significantly. Some
farmer groups were offered compensation and did accept and move, but the sums offered
were meager and unattractive (US$5,000 per family is mentioned but not substantiated).
Importantly, the land for land idea also reflected Bank awareness that a high proportion
of those displaced were not landowners but renters, sharecroppers and landless laborers,
and that under a compensation regime only landowners would have received payments.
87.   The Bank was exceptionally rigorous in its requirements for selection of soils that
would enhance project feasibility and thus restore and improve incomes and living
conditions, and hired international and Brazilian experts to find solutions. Attempts to
relocate people to existing CODEVASF settlements with better soils were unsuccessful
and it became necessary to settle people on light-textured, infertile soils with high input
requirements to ensure agricultural sustainability, often far distant from the river. These
soils required pressure sprinkler systems and the pumping of water to high and distant



- 29 -
locations, technologies which were nevertheless appropriate to the conditions, despite
criticisms. Several sites suggested by CHESF were excluded as infeasible based on soil
tests by the IJS Bureau of Reclamation, which meant that around 1,376 associated
families, equally affected by the dam, were excluded from the Bank-financed Project.
88.   Disbursement percentages among expenditure items merited greater thought,
notwithstanding the need to maintain the Bank's overall share. Setting the Bank's share
of civil works disbursements at 28% was counterproductive given the massive size of the
investment planned, pointed references by Bank staff at pre-appraisal to the Borrower's
financial circumstances and severe counterpart funding shortages from the outset.
Government could not afford the other 72%. The pace of civil works implementation --
the Bank's central preoccupation for over a decade -- would have accelerated sharply and
brought workcs-to completion much earlier, had the paripassu been more realistic from
the start. The Bank temporarily raised the disbursement percentage to 100% in 1991
propelling several major subprojects into their production phase by 1993, raising morale
and improving settlers' relations with CHESF. The March 1993 supervision mission
recommended an emergency plan to Bank management whereby the Bank's share for
civil works would be raised again to 50% for a 3-month period, subsequently declining to
15% until infrastructure was completed. It is unclear what happened to this proposal.
89.   Lack of funds had become potentially the most critical issue facing the project at
the time of pre-appraisal. By June 1987, CHESF's reserves were low and
ELETROBRAS replenishment was lagging, with some US$42 million needed just to
complete land acquisition. The availability of counterpart funding, which was linked
closely to the broader economic issues facing the country, was described as critical both
for the preparation and the consolidation phases. Presciently, the pre-appraisal Back to
Office Repott predicted the development of an undesirable situation in 1988 (the year
slated for irrigation completion) whereby families would be settled with housing and
water supply but construction of irrigation infrastructure would start to lag.
90.   To improve Project performance, the Bank approved a Supplemental Loan of
US$ 100 million in 1990; raised the percentage of Bank financing for civil works to 100%
for twelve months in 1992/93; suspended disbursements to protest acute shortages of
counterpart funds and continuing disputes among contractors; and extended the Closing
Date a total of 42 months. Nevertheless, the intense concentration on water delivery drew
attention away from other critical aspects such as production and marketing strategies,
road maintenance, school staffing, health services and transport, credit and extension, all
of which need attention. The task of developing a dialogue and reaching agreements with
the states ancl municipalities on support for these components of the full resettlement
package has fallen on CHESF.
91.   The Bank has been criticized for lack of vision for expecting farm families to
prosper under a farm economy based on annual/short-cycle crops. The Bank's reasoning
however, was mainly that such crops had been marketed successfully on the CODEVASF
and private schemes near Petrolina-Juazeiro to the west of Itaparica. Further, there was
little experience with fruit in the Itaparica region and the Bank did not wish to put
resettlers experienced only in annual crops, into debt, since fruit requires credit. Finally,



- 30 -
there was scant information on marketing avenues, distances and transportation. The
Project Brief explains: "Under the project, the intent would be to avoid drastic changes in
the farming systems now practiced by the population. A gradual transition from
traditional crops to more specialized crops will be necessary in some soils (ultimately the
majority of soils). It is assumed that immediately following resettlement, farmers would
wish to stress production of traditional, staple crops for family consumption, and that
once the situation would stabilize, they would shift to high-value, market-oriented
production. It is assumed that effective extension and research services will be available
to initiate farmers to the new situation". The Consultants' Report notes that Itaparica soils
inherently limit massive fruit expansion, leaving an important space for industrial and
horticultural/annual crops in the mix. But the future lies in fruit -- the major success
story at Petrolina -- which tolerates poorer soils, requires less skilled management, has
more secure markets and better margins, all critical considerations for Itaparica.
92.   Fisheries. The Loan Agreement shows "fisheries research" as the Project's third
component, consisting of contracting consultant services to review and evaluate the
biological potential of the Itaparica reservoir. This component was apparently omitted
from the Staff Appraisal Report. Despite the participation of experts in the preparation
missions, no initiatives were drawn up to train resettlers in fisheries activities, a common
secondary activity for many along the Sao Francisco before dam filling. CHESF did
establish farms combining the production of hogs, ducks and fish but they failed for a
number of reasons, including their non-traditional nature. While a new fisheries-only
program in partnership with an American firm was started in 1997 and looks promising,
during all the years of Project execution this potentially valuable activity for at least part
of the resettler group was not considered, reflecting a lack of creativity on everyone's
part during Project preparation, appraisal and execution.
93.   Request for Inspection. In March 1997, the Bank's independent Inspection
Panel received a Request for Inspection of the Project from a group of 121 individuals
and P6lo Sindical, claiming that standards of living, health and economic wellbeing of
people living in the Project area had been adversely affected by delays in completing the
project and by the Bank's alleged violation of its own policies and procedures relating to
Itaparica. The relevant Bank policies and procedures were listed.50 Nevertheless, the
Request was careful to praise Bank supervision of the Project and its attention to the
affected population. Evidence suggests the underlying purpose of the Request was
concern about the imminent closure of the project and departure of the Bank and CHESF
with many activities and issues incomplete and/or unresolved. Management prepared a
detailed Response which, while conceding that the situation was far from ideal and
stating that "until the productive capacity of the displaced rural families is fully-restored,
the project will not have achieved its goals", asserted that the shortcomings listed by the
Request did not arise from the Bank's failures to follow its own policies.
50  Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects (OD 4.00 - Annex B); Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01); Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30); Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20); and
Supervision (OD 13.05).



- 31 -
94.   In September 1997 the Bank's Board of Directors agreed that there were
compelling reasons for the Bank to support and supervise Government's Action Plan to
complete Itaparica, in lieu of authorizing an Inspection Panel investigation.:" The
Borrower confirmed its commitment to bringing the Project to a satisfactory conclusion
and providing the necessary funds. In 1998, US$140.6 million (R$167.8 million) has
been available through ELETROBRAS and CHESF and a proposal for a further
US$108.0 million (R$138.0 million) has been submitted to Government. An interim,
complementary Bank Progress Report is being submitted to the Board along with this
ICR, and a Final Progress Report looking at all aspects of project completion including
the achievement of project income and wellbeing objectives, will be prepared at end-
1999 when the Bank's supervisory role ends.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
95.   From the perspective of some former senior ELETROBRAS staff,
ELETROBRAS' acceptance of the resettlement project was an implicit condition for a
Second Power Sector Loan. This does not imply that ELETROBRAS would not have
supported a resettlement project but it would likely have been less elaborate with fewer
entitlements. Its commitment and involvement cooled when that loan failed to proceed
(due to disagreements over tariff policy). ELETROBRAS provided the bulk of Project
financing and financial management/oversight were undoubtedly its primary focus, but
its general stance was detached from the resettlement process and its aftermath. While
ELETROBRAS may have followed the progress of the project through the formation of
various committees and special groups -- detailed in its written comments on the Bank's
draft ICR (Annex 111)52 -- most external observers agree that its supervisory activities and
its participation in crucial decisions affecting project design, costs and overall
management, was arms-length. Bank project staff maintain that had ELETROBRAS -- a
powerful parastatal -- been more proactive in supervising its investment and in assuming
a leadership role as interested broker, results might have been different.
96.   Once affected populations were physically resettled, public interest in their plight
waned, takin;g pressure off Government to follow through. Itaparica fell off the
Government s core agenda. Tumultuous political and economic change in Brazil in the
period from :[988 to 1994 -- including a new Brazilian Constitution (1988),
decentralization of administrative and financial responsibilities to States and localities,
macroeconornic instability and inflation -- had a decisive influence on its progress,
reflected inter alia in scarce and erratic counterpart funding. It should be noted however,
that the situation reversed sharply following introduction of the Real Plan in mid-1994,
See World Bank Press Release, September 10, 1997.
52  Letter frorn ELETROBRAS (translated), November 19, 1998. The letter details exhaustively,
ELETROBRAS' role and participation in many committees and groups dedicated to progress on
Itaparica. ELETROBRAS particularly stresses its involvement in socio-environmental issues
affecting Itaparica and asserts that a small group of technicians grew over time into a multi-
disciplinary team of environmental specialists focusing on wide-ranging environmental aspects of the
power industry and other related sectors in Brazil.



- 32 -
which stabilized the economy, reduced inflation to historically low levels and saw a
marked strengthening of Government commitment to this project.
97.    Government's earlier stance was to downplay the issues and let CHESF fight with
ELETROBRAS each year for budget. Prior to 1994, Government must bear
responsibility for not providing the funds to keep irrigation works on schedule and
minimize delay. In early 1993. Government was spending about US$24 million monthly
at Xingo (a new hydroelectric scheme on the Sao Francisco river in the State of Alagoas)
and US$4 million at Itaparica.'3 ELETROBRAS and CHESF bear muclh of the
responsibility for this situation'4 but the Bank can also be faulted for assuming that
Government would prioritize resettlement over energy development. Nevertheless,
Government has continued to support this operation even as costs escalated way beyond
original estimates, despite significant domestic criticism of the project and in face of
repel Ed demands for supplementary allocations. Government maintains that its
commitmenit is to project objectives as stated and that this commitment goes much further
thani resettling, displaced people on irrigated land. Creation of the Inter-Ministerial
Working( Group in early 1 997 and approval of an Action Plan in August 1997 represent a
tirm statemenit of intenit to complete the program. The planned privatization of CHESF
\vould clearly benefit from an orderly resolution of Itaparica but GERPI officials
dovnplay its significance.
98.    OED (1992) describes the central problem of Itaparica as being that productive
infrastructure was not complete when physical resettlement occurred. This is accurate
and a lesson for future resettlement projects but overlooks the time factor, which in this
case could not accommodate both actions simultaneously. The real problem is that a
sigrnificant portion of resettlers are still waiting for water more than ten years later. With
the Loan now closed. CHESF's departure openly under discussion and the Bank with
little leverage, many factors critical for project success and sustainability remain pending,
e.g., self-imanagement including O&M, extension, titling, credit, marketing and roads.
99.    The state and municipal institutions involved in the project have shown disparate
performance in advancing project objectives, ranging from full support to indifference.
As their political agenda/interest shifted, municipal leaders have neglected their
responsibility for maintaining roads, while State agencies in both states, technically
Serra: Back to Office Report. Itaparica Project Supervision and Resettlement Review Mission, May
28, 1993.
54  In mid- 1988 tension was rising at Itaparica due to lack of funds for irrigation infrastructure. CHESF
owed contractors USS60 million for works already completed. CHESF's financial director stated that
available funds had all gone for indemnification payments to resettlers and the budget was constrained
by limited advances from ELETROBRAS and by monies owed to CHESF by several Northeast state
power companies. In the first five months of 1988 CHESF had allocated only 25% of funds budgeted
for the year and it was rumored that CHESF was channeling available funds to Xingo which was in
the State of Alagoas, the home state of Brazilian President Collor. ELETROBRAS in turn asserted
that in the first four months of 1988, it had transferred development funds to CHESF exceeding
Itaparica financial requirements and that it was up to CHESF to decide its priorities in the use of these
funds. The Bank responded that as Borrower, ELETROBRAS was responsible for funding the
Project and it was not the Bank's responsibility to convince CHESF that Itaparica was top priority.



- 33 -
responsible inter alia for staffing and equipping health posts on the agrovilas and for
recruiting and paying teachers and equipping newly-constructed schools, have allowed
both to deteriorate in many areas. Education for the children of resettlers is not only
demanded by them but is critical for the future development of the region. Public
security has also deteriorated. Local interests tend to see resettlement programs as an
opportunity to extract resources but the commitment is not there. This neglect has a
major bearing on project sustainability with time running out for securing meaningful
commitment ('i.e., budget) from these entities before CHESF's role ends. Recent
negotiations appear to be producing results (see Progress Report).
100.  Private sector participation, mainly as contractors for O&M of irrigation systems
and teclhnical assistance providers, was not as successful as expected and on more than
one occasion it was necessary to terminate a contract and reinitiate bidding. While the
priva - firms h[iave been rightly held responsible in specific cases, the public sector also
shares blame for not supervising contractors more closely.
101.  Participation of the resettlers/producers themselves in activities directly of benefit
to them has been slow tp develop, despite concerted promotion efforts. This is
demonstrated in patchy participation in the work of ATER, lack of stimulus and
dynamism in forming water user organizations, agricultural cooperatives and community
organizations to reduce production and marketing costs. The continued payment of the
VMT has not helped, nor has the long wait for water which has bred cynicism and
apathy. Further, there is a strong possibility that the caliber of a good portion of the
resettlers is insufficient to breed success even with a full slate of production inputs
including credit, rural extension and technical assistance. 5
102.  Institutional coordination encountered many problems, a situation characteristic
of several generations of Bank-financed and other large agricultural/rural development
projects in the Northeast of Brazil. ELETROBRAS and CHESF had initial trouble
communicatinig with respect to the physical and financial performance of the project, a
situation which peaked in 1990 and was resolved when ELETROBRAS established a
Project supervisory group and obtained greater control over those aspects of CHESF's
operations. The performance of ELETROBRAS was affected in the initial phase of
project execution by extreme reluctance of the Ministry of Finance to release allocated
budget for project implementation and to balance ELETROBRAS' counterpart funding
deficit, which delayed execution. CHESF as implementing agency and P61o Sindical as
representative of the resettlers had a conflictive relationship for many years with P6lo
resorting to public confrontation over certain issues which could have been negotiated,
and CHESF excluding P6lo from important meetings. With the nomination to CHESF in
1995 of a high level project manager dedicated exclusively to the project, significant
improvement resulted. Recently both entities, with the collaboration of IICA, have
integrated their work to organize producers and establish self-management bodies
(cooperatives, associations etc) in each irrigation subproject. CHESF's dealings with
FIJNDAJ, contracted to monitor and evaluate the project in process, were soured by
55 Consultants' Study (1998), op. cit.



- 34 -
FUNDAJ' tendency to focus its work on the human aspects and its weakness in the
required economic and financial evaluation of the resettlers. (The latter task was
subsequently picked up by the technical assistance and agricultural extension Consortia).
CHESF suspended payment to FUNDAJ and in 1996 canceled its contract. The
Consortia in turn, were dismissed in September 1997 with responsibility for their tasks
being assumed by P6lo and newly-forming cooperatives, with the backing of IICA
specialists.56
103.  The relationship between CHESF and FUNAI remains tense. A satisfactory
agreement for the development of Tuxa communities, who continue to be marginalized
from the benefits of Itaparica despite major efforts on their behalf, is still pending. The
Tuxa were settled but have been unable to farm, their promised irrigation system barely
off the drawing board. Influenced by FUNAI, Amerindian groups have been suspicious
of ar.1 rejected various proposals from CHESF, and demanded the right to contract their
own consultants with CHESF financing. FUNAI presented its own proposal in 1996 for
their development at Ibotirama community with the unrealistic cost of R$272,000 per
family. Bank efforts to mediate this complex situation have been unproductive. There
has been some movement with the recent intervention of the Bahia State's Attorney
General and meetings between all parties to agree on basic criteria and concepts for a
solution. The Tuxa expressed interest in creating a single organization to resolve the
conflictive situation between various groups, while CHESF contracted a specialist in the
organization and administration of indigenous communities to assist them.
104.  CHESF. CHESF's performance has fluctuated and evolved over time. Despite
the widely-publicized events at Sobradinho in the mid to late 1970s, CHESF did not
voluntarily plan for the relocation at Itaparica until pressured to do so, still displaying
marked reluctance to confront the human side of its energy program until 1986.57 Once
fully engaged in the planning and execution cycle, CHESF displayed skill and
resourcefulness, managing to successfully handle many tasks which were not its
traditional role or expertise. CHESF deserves much of the credit for the successful
physical resettlement of both urban and rural people prior to dam filling. It has had a
capable, effective and sensitive team managing the Project since 1995, which coincided
with the creation of a special unit dedicated exclusively to the Project. Relations with
P6lo Sindical and the farmers changed markedly thereafter but can still deteriorate over
specific issues.
105.  Pressures stemming from the imminent flooding of the reservoir area and other
major events including the transition to democracy in 1985 and the Bank's overt support
for P6lo Sindical, affected CHESF's performance during preparation. CHESF agreed to
conditions which were not well-defined and the Bank compounded the situation by
56  Management Response to Request for Inspection, 1997.
57  OED 1992, op. cit. An important related, and in a sense, contradictory issue is CHESF's apparent
lack of rigor in setting clear limits on eligible beneficiaries at the beginning. The ballooning of
numbers in the hiatus between dam initiation and the 1986 CHESF/P6lo Sindical Agreement may
have exacerbated the problem of identifying suitable sites and of cost escalation, although it is not
known how many families were admitted.



- 35 -
supporting P6lo Sindical's negotiating stance and not subsequently being more
aggressive about challenging the outcome when its implications became clearer. Flaws
in CHESF's preparation and appraisal of the project were shared by the Bank. CHESF is
a highly bureaucratic agency with a strong engineering bias. While it wanted the
resettlement to be successful, its basic focus favored power generation.
106.  Dependence on CHESF as provider emerged rapidly, and persists even today.
Early supervision missions noted that CHESF was financing directly or indirectly, a wide
range of services in health, dryland farming, education, access to social services, housing
repairs, and community mobilization. This was in addition to supporting periodic
markets at project sites, providing bus service at nominal rates for families and
schoolchildren, absorbing all costs for home water and power supplies and for street
lighting and subsidized farm inputs. But dependence can be burdensome. Settlers have
also t-nded to hold CHESF accountable for every eventuality and problem in the
agrovilas including health, nutrition, sanitation, education and public order.
107.  A sense of urgency prevails at the prospect of CHESF's privatization and
withdrawal from active.involvement in the project and by the direct intervention of
Government at the field level represented by its executive body, GERPI. As detailed in
its comments on the Bank's draft ICR, CHESF, through its agreement with IICA, has
played a strong role in efforts to consolidate farmer organizations and promote self-
management, culminating recently in the actual transfer of services to several existing
organizations. CHESF asserts that its actions are fully-convergent with the directives of
Government as reflected in the activities and orientation of GERPI.58 Yet, project staff
concur that CHESF has also shown a marked reluctance to disengage from the Project,
micro-managing settlers' needs and demands, and adopting positions which in the
negotiations with GERPI for future self-management of Itaparica, have at times
complicated closure on key strategic issues. In response, CHESF siates that the settlers
and P6lo Sindical naturally tend to want to preserve the status quo but that this does not
reflect CHESF's institutional position. Undoubtedly, the settlers and P6lo Sindical are
concerned about a future without CHESF, although the institution is still bound to
provide technical assistance to producers for five years after production starts (a period
technically over for those starting production in 1993 or earlier) and may yet retain
longer-term responsibilities.
108.  Polo Sindical. There is general agreement that P6lo Sindical has had a profound
influence on the course of events at Itaparica. While less than half of all agrovila and
para-rural families are formal members of the local rural workers' unions comprising
P6lo Sindicall. the majority regard it as their representative. However, this may be
changing. As self-management gains ground in the form of cooperatives, associations
and other groupings, its role is becoming more complex and its influence could slip.
About 69% of families are now producing or are very close to it, while another group
awaits key decisions. The preoccupations of these groups vary and P6lo Sindical is not
necessarily the advocate for all of them. After many years as adversaries, relations
58  See Letter from CHESF, November 23, 1998 (Annex IV).



- 36 -
between CHESF and P6lo Sindical have markedly improved but can easily deteriorate
over critical issues.
109.  With some farmers now forging alliances/cooperatives outside the orbit of P6lo
Sindical, the complex negotiating process for self-management has become more so.
P6lo Sindical continues to strive for greater concessions, in the process seeking to bind
farmers to its broader objectives which are not necessarily synonymous with building
strong, independent cooperatives which can operate autonomously. P6lo Sindical's
position on the "land for land near the lake" demand, compounded by sophisticated
irrigation technology on risky soils, became a standardised solution which might prove
unsuitable for many of the resettlers (although it may well suit their children, properly
educated in Itaparica's Bank-financed schools). 9
110.  P6lo Sindical, with Bank support, negotiated a generous package of benefits with
a politically disadvantaged CHESF whose understanding of the social implications of the
power plant was weak. However, P6lo Sindical may, by securing a formidable set of
benefits for a group of mostly subsistence farmers and laborers, have tipped the scales in
favor of a significant shakeout of the project over time as complex irrigation systems
come on stream and those resettlers not anxious to operate or maintain them obtain their
titles and sell out. Apparently, one of the key motivations of P6lo Sindical's request to
the Bank for inspection of the project was to promote the continued engagement of
CHESF (and of the Bank) in part to bolster the original concept.
111.  CODEVASF. Responsibility for the final stage of Project execution was
assigned to CODEVASF which had extensive experience with irrigation projects in the
Sao Francisco Valley. It would oversee and contract expertise for trials, start-up and
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, technical assistance and rural extension
(the ATER program), social support programs and monitoring of VMT payments.
CODEVASF entered the Itaparica equation quite late but in an important sense, given its
experience, was possibly the more logical body to run Itaparica than CHESF although the
projects it had overseen in the Valley were also very different from Itaparica, involving
commercial, entrepreneurial farming. CODEVASF has always been something of an
outsider with little sense of ownership of the Project. As the Project has entered its final
stages, CODEVASF has tended to withdraw from its institutional and contractual
responsibilities, which has implications for Project sustainability and for the social,
economic and agricultural future of the region. Definition of CODEVASF's involvement
in Itaparica is seen as an important task for the GERPI group. Recent developments are
outlined in the Progress Report.
112. Consortia. CODEVASF contracted the Consortia of HYDROSERVICE-
GERSAR for the Borda do Lago (lakeside) schemes and ENERCONSULT-PROJETEC-
PLENA-ELC for the Special Schemes. The Consortia encountered a series of problems
which affected their performance adversely. They maintained offices in the project area
and a significant number of technical and administrative personnel. The monthly cost per
family for the ATER and other training ranged from R$44 (Caraibas) to R$221 (Gloria),
59  OED (1998) presents a fair and thorough look at P6lo Sindical's role and influence.



- 37 -
not including administrative costs. An additional 70% were administrative costs
including tec hnical and other personnel. Their handling of the ATER activities was
considered unsatisfactory by the farmers and P6lo Sindical. Their contract was not
renewed in 1997, being substituted by direct contracting of technical assistance with the
oversight and. guidance of IICA.
113. IICA. Under the new system introduced in September 1997 near Loan closing,
the role of IICA was bolstered and the focus shifted to establishing self-management
bodies (cooperatives, associations and condominiums) at the level of the irrigation
systems which could as soon as feasible, take over all service provision, contracting out
operation ancd maintenance of irrigation structures and production support services.
IICA has performed to a high standard and recently was re-contracted for the crucial final
stages of the Project.
114.  Procturement. Procurement procedures followed in the Project were consistent
with those used in other Bank-financed projects in Brazil. This was looked at carefully
by Kirmani ( 1989) in view of the huge cost escalation. Contract documents and
specifications for the five irrigation schemes were prepared by CHESF consultants and
reviewed by the Bank and US Bureau of Reclamation team. Invitations were ICB-based
but foreign contractors did not submit bids and thus all civil works contracts were
awarded to Brazilian firms, an unsurprising outcome. The Brazilian construction
industry is competent and competitive and foreign firms have difficulty competing.
115.  Contracts for housing, financed by CHESF, were procured through LCB.
Pumping plants, pipes and electrical installations were procured through ICB. Again,
most contracts were secured by Brazilian firms with several exceptions involving firms
from Spain and France. There were no unusual problems. A Rumanian firm lost its bid
to supply electric transformers because the bid did not follow specifications. In another
case involving small and medium diameter pressure pipes, a Spanish firm (URALITA)
was the lowest bid but lost the chance to supply when expansive and collapsible soils
called its product strength into question and the contract went to another firm. Overall,
procurement procedures followed by CHESF were satisfactory. CHESF and Bank staff
were concerned at the beginning that the tight time frame for building irrigation facilities
could result in unusually high bids. It probably did have some effect on prices but the
competition was keen and the bids reasonable.60
116.  During 1989 almost no progress was made in implementing irrigation works
because of a critical shortage of funds resulting from rapid increase in construction costs
under an inflationary macroeconomic environment in Brazil. The procurement of goods
was repeatedly delayed and lack of equipment had become a critical constraint by 1989.
Most contracts for goods and equipment had been awarded by end-1989, while bids for
works and the remaining equipment were evaluated but not awarded due to lack of
counterpart funds. In early 1991, the Bank raised the disbursement percentage on
irrigation works to 100% and CHESF shipped into contractors' yards, thousands of
meters of PVC and aluminum pipes which remained stacked there without weather
60 See S. Kirniani: op cit.



- 38 -
protection. Evidence suggests the perception of poor quality reduced farmers' confidence
in the works and in their own ability to operate and maintain them. By 1992, with the
exception of the URALITA issue, there were no pending procurement problems.
117.  Audit. The audit record for the project shows that audits were timely and
generally unqualified. No major problems were identified by the auditors during the
implementation of the project and qualifications raised by auditors were usually minor
and were often corrected by the Borrower.
118. Covenant Compliance. The Borrower (ELETROBRAS) showed delayed or
partial compliance with the following important Loan covenants: (i) Section 3.01 (a)
Borrower's obligation to cause CHESF to perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, and to take all actions to enable CHESF to carry out those
obligations; (ii) 3.01 (b) Borrower's obligation to re-lend Loan proceeds to CHESF; (iii)
5.02, Borrower to provide CHESF with funds should there be indications CHESF's
funding was inadequate to meet expenditures; (iv) 5.03(a) Borrower to reinvest all
dividends paid to the Borrower, in CHESF stock; (v) 5.03(b) Borrower to provide
CHESF with adequate resources to meet its financial undertakings; and (vi) 2.06, CHESF
to enter agreement with FUNAI for relocating the Tuxa Amerindian families and to
transfer lands to FUNAI for the Tuxa.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
119. The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IRR) estimated at appraisal for the five
irrigation subprojects was 13% and for the entire resettlement project, 6%. In 1989,
when the project was re-appraised for the Supplemental Loan, concerns arose that given
the sharply increased costs, the IRRs for at least some of the five irrigation subprojects
might be below the opportunity cost of capital (11%). Independent economic viability of
the project was of paramount concern for the original project but it was subsequently
suggested that this was not entirely appropriate and that divorcing the net benefits of the
resettlement operation from those accruing to the hydro-electric scheme was difficult. It
was believed that the economic and social consequences of not completing the project
promptly as planned would be great and that it was preferable for the Bank to accept a
more modest "cut-off " rate of return for each subproject of around 8%.
120.  The MOP for the Supplemental Loan states plainly that the benefits and costs of
the resettlement project must be viewed in conjunction with the benefits and costs of the
power project. The IRRs for the irrigation subprojects were recalculated in 1989 to just
under 11%, while the IRRs for individual subprojects had decreased from 10-14% to 9-
12%. Almost ten years later, these are largely meaningless. The IRR on a resettlement
project: with huge cost overruns; an average per family cost ranging from US$103,000 to
US$148,000; with about 69% of its beneficiary families actually producing ten years
after works were to have been completed; an implementation period almost double the
intended; and incomplete operation of systems, will be negative.
121.  The Project is rated Unsatisfactory on the basis of: (i) inconclusive evidence that
income restoration and improvement objectives are being achieved, and failure to



- 39 -
complete land titling; (ii) failure to complete irrigation works some ten years beyond
plan; (iii) co,t overruns and exceptionally high cost relative to benefits; (iv) likely
negative IRR; and (v) uncertain sustainability.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
122.  Time demands mandated a simpler project design or a stronger stance on the
dam filling deadline to accommodate the difficult design issues inherent in the
CHESF/P6lo Agreement of 1986 and the Bank's own resettlement policy. As stated
by Serra (1993) "there is a critical trade-off between investing in better plans and
meeting 'external" deadlines pertaining to the main investment, in the case of emergency
projects".
123.  Experience with this project suggests that the Bank's resettlement policy,
while embodying the important principle of fairness, can sometimes create
entitlements which imply difficult trade-offs. Benefits may be only briefly in the
hands of intended beneficiaries (possibly an inevitable trade-off for more dynamic
growth in a given region); issues of financial sustainability arise; and the likelihood that
Bank standards will be adopted outside the context of Bank projects may be reduced. A
review of this policy which preserves the important underlying principles while
injecting flexibility into the possible mechanisms for resettlement, would be prudent.
124.  Realistic assessment of the true costs of the irrigation/production package,
especially its energy and water costs is essential. State of the art systems might entail
significant and possibly permanent subsidies. Equally, evidence of budgetary problems
and potential counterpart funding difficulties at appraisal must be confronted and openly
assessed.
125.  Issues, of subsidies for energy supply should be discussed and agreed during
preparation and included in resettlement agreements signed by representatives of
the affected population and the Government. Lack of a clear definition of these
criteria can cause difficulties for final transfer of project operation to project
organizations and in the case of Itaparica it is doubtful that many of the current farmers
will ever prodluce enough to cover their true operating costs.
126.  In an inflationary environment and where large investments are involved,
speciail attention to financial estimation is required to reduce risks which
create uncertainty and complicate financial monitoring. Further, the Bank
needs to be very sure that its reference unit costs for resettlement are realistic, i.e.,
the Bank needs to systematicaly accumulate knowledge and construct a good data
base on resettlement and other environment-related project costs, which can
represent up to one-third of total project cost. 61
61  See excellent analysis of the Itaparica cost overrun issue and lessons for the Bank in Memorandum of
September 15, 1993, and in Kirmani, October 3, 1989.



- 40 -
127.  Resettlement projects may be inappropriate candidates for economic
justification in their own right, independent of the dam which created the need. The
resettlement "component" of a hydro-electric scheme should satisfy technical,
environmental and social standards, at least cost.
128.  The experiences of this project suggest clear differences between the
challenges posed by urban resettlement (including urban areas in a rural
environment) and rural resettlement. The latter appears to create unique
challenges for income restoration, recreation of social networks and living
conditions for which orchestrated, technical solutions may have their limits and
which can be more costly to resolve. Resettling poor rural people, who in the Northeast
of Brazil lack most basic services, automatically implies high additional infrastructure
costs since the project is going beyond "restoration"62 creating a more optimal
agro/social environment which redresses the deficits of rural poverty, not only the losses
of relocation.
129.  The Bank should pursue and secure the full support of state and local
authorities for the public utility, social services and other elements of resettlement
projects which will require recurrent funding. Failure to do so can directly threaten
project sustainability.
130.  It is unrealistic to expect a Borrower to prioritize resettlement after the dam
is completed. Special and sustainable leverage must be found.63 Political
commitment and sustainable counterpart funding are essential pre-conditions and these
need to be built over time and from the earliest stage of a hydroelectric scheme involving
resettlement.
131.  Disbursement percentages on major project components should be
considered strategically, factoring in project objectives and timing, counterpart
funding availability and Borrower's implementation capacity. Assigning 28% to
civil works/irrigation systems for a massive and pivotal component in a deteriorating
economy already signaling likely counterpart funding shortages, was unworkable.
132.  Land for land in the vicinity may be impractical especially if a significant
portion of the target population is landless, its capacities do not match the
sophistication of the productive package, and it is prevented from selling out.
133.  The strict selectivity of the Bank's approach -- rejecting certain projects
whose soils, agricultural conditions, and economic feasibility were unpromising,
thereby also rejecting the populations associated with them -- was incorrect. The
Bank had a developmental and moral obligation to address all affected families and to
exercise creativity in how they might be relocated even if this involved differentiated
scheduling and solutions.
62  Serra (1993) op. cit.
63  The Bank did use its leverage through the First Power Sector Project and its contingent support for
Government's planned energy strategy, but circumstances rapidly changed and that leverage was lost.



-41 -
134.  Participation of resettlers in decision-making on resettlement strategy and
physical features is desirable but if conducted in a pressured, politically charged
environment, can force poor decisions. These decisions ultimately affect all aspects of
the Project but most seriously the resettlers, by increasing technical complexity, costs and
timing. Yet their participation is essential for building independence and reversing
traditional attitudes regarding government as the solution and provider.
135.  A cadaster of populations in the area of dam/resettlement projects must be
taken as early in the process as possible to determine precise eligibility and avoid
free-riders. The long delay between initiation of dam construction (1979) and appraisal
of the resettlement project provided opportunity for an influx of technically ineligible
populations who understandably, saw the chance to gain entitlement to land and other
assets.
136.  The transfer of populations should only commence once productive and
social infrastructure and systems are in place and operational. Farmers were moved
long before their farms were ready to cultivate. This point may be moot in the case of
Itaparica since delaying the flooding of the reservoir was not seriously contemplated and
the sequence of events was irrevocable, but the issue is important for any similar future
project. No amount of alternative employment generation, social services, production
preparation or support payments can mitigate this fact.
137.  Involuntary resettlement brings together rural people of diverse experience,
motivation and productive capacity and resettlement projects must accordingly
reflect this diversity. The focus should be on productive potential, innovation and
regional dynamism.
138.  Reset:tlement as a result of hydro-electric schemes should extend its vision
beyond irrigated agriculture to establishing diversified, permanent employment. T
139.  Voluntary resettlement based on terms and conditions agreeable to all
parties has major advantages, but is likely to be costly. These costs must be
realistically assessed and explicitly included in ex ante economic evaluation of the
project. Time and resources are needed for planning and execution including for
activities essential to economic reestablishment of the displaced (especially rural)
population.
140.  Irrigation systems development involving inexperienced farmers/users,
requires massive amounts of well-planned and executed technical assistance to
bolster farmers confidence in their own ability to produce successfully, which in turn can
have positive effects on their willingness to take on O&M responsibilities.
141.  Creation of a special unit within the executing agency (CHESF), dedicated
exclusively to the Project, greatly improved project execution. Experience with such
units across diverse projects has encountered problems and perhaps a critical factor was
CHESF's traditional dominance in the region and linkage to a powerful Federal entity
which saved the unit from budgetary or political isolation.



- 42 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2883-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                        E                                  E
Financial Objectives                   E                0
Institutional Development                                                III
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction 64                   E0
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives 65
Environmental Objectives 66
Public Sector Management                                                 E3
Private Sector Development 7           0               E0
64   Evidence suggests prospects for achieving income objectives are promising and meet or exceed appraisal estimates, but
with different combinations of crops than foreseen and without factoring in real energy/water costs.
65   Resettlers have better housing, services and community organizations as a result of the project.
66   "Environmental" is interpreted here as physical resettlement. Achievements were substantial.
67   Gains evident in private sector family farm development.



- 43 -
(Continued)
B. Project Sustain ability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                        ($)
Highly
C. Bank Performnance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                          )
Identification                       E                                                   El
Preparation Assistance               E                                                   El
Appraisal                            E                        El
Supervision                          E                                                   El
hly
D. Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(v')            (/)             (V)
Preparation                                   E                                El
Implementation                                E               El
Covenant Compliance                           El              El
Operation (if applicable)                     E                                El
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
E               El)                                  El ()  



- 44 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/                   Purpose               Year       Status
Loan No.                                          Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Paulo Afonso IV Sobradinho   Power generation (and           1974       Closed
Hydroelectric Project        resettlement)
(Ln. 1008-BR)
2. Lower Sao Francisco Polder   To compensate for changes in    1975       Closed
Project (Ln. 1153-BR)        flow regime caused by
Sobradinho Hydropower
Project
3. Sao Francisco 11 Irrigation  To raise agricultural           1979       Closed
Project (Ln. 1729-BR)        production and farm incomes
of some 2,700 farm families
below the absolute poverty
level in the lower Sao
Francisco River valley
4. Northeast Irrigation         Technical and finanicial        1986       Closed
Engineering Project (Ln. 2680-  support for regional irrigation
BR)                          planining
5. Upper and Middle Sao         Rehabilitation of 17,800 ha of  1986       Closed
Francisco Irrigation Project (Ln. irrigated land and development
2719-BR)                     of 11,000 ha of new lands



- 45 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps iin Project Cycle               Date Planned          Latest Estimate
A. Loan (US$132 nmillion)
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         --                 June 1986
Preparation                                       --            June 1986-June 1987
Appraisal                                         --                  June 1987
Negotiations                                       --                October 1987
Board Presentation                                 --             November 17, 1987
Loan Signing                                      --              December 7, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                                 --             December 8, 1987
Loan Closing                                 June 30, 1994        December 31, 1994
B. Supplemental Loan (US$100 million)
Board Presentation                          January 30, 1990      February 20, 1990
Loan Signing                                      --              November 1, 1991
Loan Effectiveness                                 --              January 24, 1992
Loan Closing                               December 31, 1995      December 31, 1997
Project Completion                            December 3 1, 1993      December 1999 68
68  The Loan closed prior to Project completion. Government plans to exit the Project by December 1999 in executive
terms, but may retain operational responsibility for major works. See Progress Report.



- 46 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal      Appraisal        Revised            Actual          Actualas % of
Year       Estimate 69      Estimate 70                        Revised Estimate
1988           77.00           59.85            49.24                82.27%
1989          125.00          101.94            53.43                52.41%
1990          129.00          157.97            99.84                63.20%
1991          130.00          180.40            119.79               66.40%
1992          131.00          221.08            160.46               72.58%
1993          132.00         221.08            206.25                93.29%
1994          132.00         221.08            217.91                98.57%
1995          132.00         221.08            221.04                99.98%
1996          132.00          221.08           221.60               100.24%
1997          132.00          232.00           228.76                98.60%
1998          132.00         232.00            231.97                99.99%
Final Disbursement:    April 7, 1998
69 Loan 2883-BR for US$132.0 million approved by the Board on November 17, 1987 and effective December 8, 1987.
70  Board approved a Supplemental Loan (2883-1-BR) for US$I00.0 million on February 20, 1990, which became
effective January 24, 1992. Total Bank funds available to the Project were US$232.0 million.



- 47 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Physical Achievements in States of Pernambuco and Bahia t"
Pernambuco        Bahia           Total
Project Activity             Unit           (PE)            (BA)        (PE and BA)
Families resettled                    Unit          3,704          2,2 13          5,917
Agrovilas established                 Unit            87              39             126
Rural houses built                    Unit          3,505           1.822          5,327
Schools built                         UJnit           56              28              84
Health posts established              Unit             8               8              16
lrrigablearea                          Ha          13,241          7,271          20,512
Dryland area                           Ha         59,721          34,953          94,674
Legal reserve area                     Ha         29,672          13.316          42,988
Pumping stations                      Unit            58              54             112
Main canals                            Km             81               --             81
Distribution canals                    Km            660             330             990
On-farm water distribution networks    Km           5,533          2,364           7,897
Roads                                  Km            877             430           1,307
I/      The most recent comprehensive statement of the Project's physical achievemilents prepared by
CHESF does not distinguish between Bank- and non-Bank-financed activities. coverin- the "full"
Project. Indicators established at appraisal rapidly changed and were not monitored over the life
of the Loan. Data for Bank-financed activities is selectively available and presented throughout
the text.
Source:     Companhia Hidro Eletrica do S3o Francisco - Cl IE'SF
Diretoria de Engenharia - DE
Coordenadoria Especial do Empreendimento de Itaparica - CI-.l
TABLE 6. STUDIES IN(CILUDFD IN PROJECT
Purpose as Defined at
Study              Appraisal/Redefined         Status               Impact of Study
Fisheries monitoring    To study biological   Completcd early  'l'echlinically unknown. Initial
and review           potential of the Itaparica    in Project   follow-up was slow, but there have
Reservoir                                 been promising recent efforts to
revitalize fish farming under
contracted commercial terms.



- 48 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs I
(US$ million)
Difference
as % of
Appraisal Estimate (1987)       Re-Appraisal Estimate (1989)    Difference     1987                 Actual
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign      Total     1987-1989    Estimate    Local    Foreign    Total
A. Irrigation and Agricultural           58.6       80.8     139.4        145.3     200.1      345.4       206.0        147.8%     161.4     232.0 >'   393.4
Production
Irrigation Subprojects                54.3      74.7      129.0        137.7     189.4      327.1      198.1         153.6%    122.5      111.0     233.5
Agricultural Production Support and    4.3       6.1       10.4          7.6      10.7       18.3        7.9         76.0%      38.9 4/   121.0 6'   159.9 7/
Rural Extension
13. Rural Infrastructure and Services    58.4       20.0      78.4        129.7      44.4      174.1        95.7        122.1%     150.8                150.8
Rural llousing 2'                     41.0       13.7      54.7        100.4      33.5      133.9       79.2        144.8%     134.6                134.6
Road Systems                           5.2        2.8       8.0          9.0       4.9       13.9        5.9         73.8%       0.4                  0.4
Electric Power Systems                 9.1        2.5      11.6         10.8       3.0       13.8        2.2          19.0%      5.9                  5.9
Education. Health and Social           3.1        1.0       4.1          9.5       3.0       12.5        8.4        204.9%       9.9                  9.9
Services
C. Urban Infrastructure                  47.8       17.3      65.1         73.4       25.9      99.3        34.2         52.5%      99.7                 99.7
rowns 2/                              41.3       13.9      55.2         66 8      22.5       89.3       34.1         61.8%      89.7                 89.7
Road Systems                           6.2        3.3       9.5          6.4       3 4        9.8        0.3          3.2%       9.8                  9.8
Electric Power Systems                 0.3        0.1       0.4          0.2                  0.2       -0.2         -50.0%      0.2                  0.2
D. Other                                                                                                                           94.9                  94.9
Fishing                                                                                                                          0.6                  0.6
Engineering and Supervision                                                                                                     24.5                 24.5
I,and Titling                                                                                                                   69.8                 69.8
Total Baseline Costs                    164.8      118.1     282.9        348.4     270.4      618.8       335.9        118.7%o    506.8     232.0      738.8
Physical Contingencics                1(.1        6.0      16.1         19 4      11.5       30.9       14.8         91.9%
IPrice Contingencies                   2.5        2.2       4.7                                         -4.7       -1(0.0%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     177.4      126.3     303.7        367.8     281.9      649.7      346.0         113.9%    506.8      232.0      738.8
Source: CHIESF (1998) and project records
I/    Refers onl\ to Bank-financed portion.
2/    Includes cost of drinking %%ater suppl% and sanmtation.
3/    Includes USS291.1 million of acutal lProject e\penditures through August 1989 and tIS$38 5 million ofta\cs.
4/    Includes  SS21.1 million for rural c\ten>mon
D     Includes IiSS2I.2 million for rural extension
6/    Includes I'SS42 3 million for rural e\tension
7/    CHESF maintained detailed accounts of min etnncrt h! item suh-item (c y . rural infras,tructure. roads) X% ithotit notinm the source ol funds Amouints were then allocated
under [)isbursement Categories as per the l.oan AurecmcnotSAR (i c . ci il \ orks. cquipmcnt. techfiical assistance and othcr) (Cost and financing data provided to the Bank
sho% s all 13ank funds aggregated. for simpliFicattion. under Itcn A. Irrigation S\ stcim and Agricultural ProdUction  I he timec and c\pense of disaggrgcating data was not
seen1 as beine cost-effectixe



- 49 -
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source         Appraisal Estimate (1987)   Re-Appraisal Estimate (1989)        Actual (1998)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Costs    Costs              Costs    Costs               Costs    Costs
IBRD                    5.7    126.3    132.0       --     232.0     232.0       --      232.0    232.0
Federal Govemment/   171.7      --      171.7    367.8      49.9     417.7      506.8     --      506.8
ELETROBRAS
Total                 177.4    126.3   303.7    367.8    281.9        649.7     506.8    232.0    738.8
Source: CHESF (August) and Bank records.
1/   Net of US$291.1 million of actual Project expenditures through August 1989 and including US$21 .0 million of taxes.
C. Project Costs by Major Item and Share
(US$ million)
Item                          Original        Re-Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Appraisal          Estimate           Estimate
Irrigation and Agricultural Production              139.4             345.4              393.4
Rural Infrastructure and Services                   129.0              174.1              150.8
Urban Infrastructure                                 65.1               99.3               99.7
Others                                               20.8                -                 94.9
Total                                               303.7              618.8             738.8
I/    Total cost o-f Bank-financed project.



- 50 -
C. Project Costs by Major Item and Share
(continued)
Original Appraisal Estimate (1987)
a Irrigation and Agricultural
Production
. l I  _   36U41             *Rural infrastructure and
39 X35                                                               Services
o Urban Infrastructure
5.87               18.37                                Others
Re-Appraisal Estimate (1989)
Dlrrigation and Agricultural
Production
55.82            _                                                 Rural Infrastructure and
Services
|   ~9   28.14               O Urban Infrastructure
0.00      16.05                                            0 Others
Actual/Latest Estimate
3Irrigation and Agricultural
53.25%=dl-s                   1* ;'  - -Production
20.< 2 0  41%           *Rural Infrastructure and
Services
0 Urban Infrastructure
\_T~~~~3.49%
9_                      13 Others
1285%



- 51 -
BRAZIL
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2883-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original      Revised                        Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                            of
Agreement   Section              Type         Status        Date          Date                          Covenant                              Comments
Loan          3.01 (a)             5           CD                                    The Borrower (ELETROBRAS) shall cause CHESF   Complied with after
to perform all the obligations set forth in the PA;  delays. ELETROBRAS
shall, in a timely manner, take all actions including    could have been more
provision 3f funds. facilities. services and other  proactive in its support of
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable    CHESF and the Project
CHESF to perform such obligations: and shall not
take or permit any action which N%ould prevent such
performance.
3.01 (b)             3          CD                                     The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the loan    Complied with after
to CIIESF.                                       delays.
3.01 (c)            3            C                                     The Borrower shall not assign. amend. abrogate or    Complied w ith
wvaive the Subsidiary Loan Agreenent or any
provision thereof.
3.02                 5           C                                     Procurement of goods. works and consultants'     Complied with
services required for the project and financed out of
the proceeds of the loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule I of the Project Agreement.
Loan          5.01 (a)             I            C                                    The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts    Complied with
(Continued)                                                                          adequate to reflect its operations and financial
condition,



- 52 -
Original      Revised                       Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement   Section             Type        Status        Date          Date                         Covenant                             Comments
5.01 (b)            I           C                                    The Borrower shall: (i) have its records, accounts  Complied with
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited;
(ii) fumish to the Bank (a) annual financial
statements; (b) the report of such audit; and (iii)
furnish such other information as the Bank shall
request.
5.02                4           CD                                   Whenever there is cause to believe that funds   Complied with after delay
available to CHESF will be inadequate to meet
estimated expenditures required for carrying out the
project, the Borrower shall make arrangements to
provide CHESF with such funds.
5.03 (a)            2           CP                                  Borrower shall reinvest all dividends paid to the  Partial compliance
Borrower by CHESF in CHESF capital stock.
5.03 (b)            4           CD                                  Borrower shall provide to CHESF adequate         Complied with after delay
resources to allow CHESF to meet the financial
undertakings set forth in the Project Agreement.
5.03 (c)            3           C                                   Borrower shall review with Bank and CHESF by     Complied with
November 30 of each year the financial
requirements of CHESF for the following year and
the measures to be taken in order to meet such
requirements.
Loan         5.04                 5           C                                   By November 30 of each year, Borrower shall     Complied with
(Continued)                                                                       review, together with Guarantor and Bank, the
portion of the 5-year Investment Program to be
carried out during the following year, including the
financial requirements for the execution of such plan
as well as electric power sector's overall financial
situation, and related proposed tariff action and
other financial measures.
Project       2.01 (b)           10           CD                                  Carry out the project in accordance with the    Complied with after
Implementation Program.                         profound delays.



- 53 -
Original     Revised                      Description
Covenant    Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement   Section            Type        Status      Date          Date                        Covenant                           Comments
2.05 (b)           5           C                                  CHESF shall promptly inform the Bank of any   Complied with
conditions which interfere with the progress of the
project.
2.06               8          CD                                  CHESF shall enter into an agreement with FUNAI    Complied with after delay
providing for relocation of 180 Tuxa Amerindian
families to Ibotirama and Rodelas in the State of
Bahia, provide social and extension services to the
resettled Amerindian population, and transfer the
land to be occupied by the Amerindians to FUNAI.
2.08 (a)           6           C                                  CHESF shall furnish an Environmental Impact   Complied with
Study to the Bank.
2.08 (b)           6           C                                  Follow the recommendations of such study.     Partial compliance
2.09               7           C                                  Fill the reservoir only after population has been  Complied with
resettled.
2.10 (a)           7           C                                  CHESF shall furnish a proposal for compensating  Complied with
farmers for increased pumping costs.
2.10(b)            10          C                                  Implement compensation proposal.              Complied with
2.11               10          C                                  Acquire title to all land required for the project  Complied with
4.01               1           C                                  CHESF shall maintain adequate financial records of  Complied with
its general operations and concerning execution of
the project.



- 54 -
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
142.  The Internal Economic Rate of Return estimated at appraisal for the five irrigation
projects/schemes was 13%, with three of them showing IRRs between 10% and 11 % and
the other two showing IRRs of 12% and 13% respectively. Eight farm models
representing four farm sizes (1.5, 3.0, 4.5 and 6.0 ha) and two different types of
subprojects (Lakeside and Special Schemes) were analyzed to estimate the benefits
derived from the irrigation investments. It was estimated that full development of the
production systems would take seven years. Once stabilized, average annual family
income would range from US$2,100 (US$1,400 per ha) for smaller farms in the Lakeside
projects, to US$5,900 (US$985 per ha) for larger farms in the Special Schemes.
143.  The Internal Economic Rate of Return for the whole resettlement project was estimated at
6%, factoring into the cost stream all rural investments including farm houses, roads,
electricity, drinking water, schools and health centers. The Staff Appraisal Report
correctly stated that the economic implications of the project should be considered in the
context of the hydroelectric power generation project which prompted the need for
relocation. The estimated economic viability of the whole irrigation undertaking at
appraisal was quite fragile. The sensitivity analysis showed that the overall rate of return
dropped below 12% with implementation delays of just one year, or relatively minor 10%
increases in costs or decreases in benefits.
144.  The resettlement plan as designed required not only the maintenance and improvement of
resettlers' standard of living but also the re-creation of types of activities usually carried
out by them. This requirement limited the technical alternatives for resettlement of
affected families, in the process raising costs and limiting production potential for some
projects/schemes. Coupled with the scarcity of appropriate soils in the immediate area
surrounding the reservoir, this approach translated into high costs and limited production
potential for several of the schemes and the need for a massive and continuous effort on
soil enhancement. Given the limited leeway of the preparation team, the economic
analysis was meant to document the probable economic impact of forced resettlement
under restricted technical options and with less than optimal information.
145.  There is little purpose or value added in re-calculating the IRR for the irrigation
investment of the project. The SAR clearly stated the shortcomings of doing a separate
economic analysis for the irrigation component, pointing out that it should have been part
of the hydroelectric power project. It also follows that a least cost approach should have
sufficed at appraisal. The technical alternatives included in the SAR, at least for the
irrigation investment component, portrayed the least cost solution to best technical
alternative given the design restrictions imposed. There is no need to reassess the
technical choices made. Whatever happened that made actual implementation depart
physically and financially from what was planned, is portrayed and analyzed elsewhere in
the ICR. The exact economic implications of the lessons learnt within the framework of
this project add little to the learning process.



- 55 -
146.  Given available information on cost overruns, construction delays of 5-10 years
(irrigation works) and incomplete operation of the systems (some 69% of beneficiary
families are now receiving irrigation water and producing, many of them having started
only recently), calculations would almost certainly yield negative NPVs at any discount
rate. Available information indicates that the original cost estimate (1987) of US$130.0
million for irrigation development, which by re-appraisal (1989) had risen to US$345.4
million, is actually US$393.4 million, three times that original estimate. This translates
into a cost per beneficiary family of between US$ 103,000 and US$148,000 depending on
what is factored into the equation, up from original estimates of US$37,500. Total costs
per irrigated hectare (including costs of non-irrigated land) ranges from approximately
US$30,C00 to US$43,000, up from estimates of US$8,100 at appraisal. Beyond this,
availablc cost information is not complete, and may not be accurate given that
construction is not yet over. The full economic impact would be preliminary. Finally.
the Consultants' Report (I 998) commissioned by the Borrower shIows that preselnt
production systems are not as profitable as needed to attain sustainability, that technical
assistance has not been as effective as required for good project implementation, and that
further investments are needed to incorporate fruit production into farm systems.



- 56 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                     Negotiations                                   TOTAL
YEAR                                     through Board
Preparation     Appraisal        Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1986          16.7                                                                          16.7
1987          88.7            9.4                                                          98.1
1988                         32.2           11.1              16.3                         59.6
1989                                                          24.8                         24.8
1990                                                          28.9                         28.9
1991                                                          19.1                          19.1
1992                                                          14.4                          14.4
1993                                                          10.4                          10.4
1994                                                           7.2                           7.2
1995                                                          13.4                          13.4
1996                                                           9.8            1.8           11.6
1997                                                          11.3           16.1          27.4'
1998                                                          16.7           11.0          27.7
1999                                                          11.0                          11.0
Total        105.4            41.6           11.1             183.3          28.9          370.3
US$'000
1986         25.0                                                                          25.0
1987         125.5           13.0                                                          138.5
1988                         50.6           16.1              27.3                         94.0
1989                                                          42.8                         42.8
1990                                                          30.4                         30.4
1991                                                          30.1                         30.1
1992                                                          37.6                         37.6
1993                                                          24.0                         24.0
1994                                                          19.3                         19.3
1995                                                          28.5                         28.5
1996                                                          18.3            7.4          25.7
1997                                                          20.8           60.6          81.4
1998                                                          36.4           19.3          55.7
1999                                                          26.5                         26.5
Total        150.5            63.6           16.1            342.0           87.3          659.5
Source: FACT



- 57 -
TABLE 1 1. BANK RESOUIRCES: MISSIONS
Days         Specialized           Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   No. of    in            staff skills         Impl.     Develop.                        Types of
Project Cycie     Year   persons  fieid          Represented           Status    Objectives                     probl.ms
Through           6/86       7       17    Ag, AgEcon, Econ, Fish,
Appraisal                                      InstDev, IrrEng
9/86      6        16   Ag, AgEcon, Econ, IrrEng      --          --
11/86      2       10          IrrEng, Proc            --         --
2/87      2       28           Ag, AgEcon
5/87      3        10      Ag, AgEcon, IrrEng         --          --
6/87      9        15     AgEcon, Eng, IrrEng,        --          --
Legal, UrbanPlan
Supervision 71    4/88       4       II    AgEc, Anth, Eng, IrrEng,      2           2       Counterpart funds; cost overrun; design delays
10/88      3       4        Anth, Eng, IrrEng          2           2       Social; civil works delays
5/89      2        3          IrrEng, Anth            2            I      Counterpart funds; social
6/90      2        19           Anth, Eng             4            3      Counterpart funds; legal; social
12/90      3       1        Anth, IrrEng, Legal        3           3       Counterpart funds; legal
4/91      2        4          Econ, IrrEng,           4            3      Counterpart funds; legal; social
8/91      2        10         Anth, IrrEng            3           3       Social
1/92      4        4      AgEcon, Anth, Econ,         4           4       Counterpart funds
IrrEng
71 Not all supervision missions produced a 590.
Formal supervision missions were supplemented by the following special purpose missions:
July 1988:   Follow up analysis of implementation progress, and gastroenteritis outbreak.
December 1988:   Informal mission to discuss with CHESF a possible Supplemental Loan
October 1991 :Brief follow-up supervision mission to check overall progress.
April 1992:  Mission to discuss Project's 1992 financing plan with Government.
November 1995:   Itaparica progress mission, part of multi-purpose mission by Water Resource Specialist (Consultant).
March 1996: Itaparica progress mission, part of multi-purpose mission by Water Resource Specialist (Consultant).



- 58 -
Days          Specialized           Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   No. of    in             staff skills          Impl.      Develop.                        Types of
Project Cycle     Year    persons   field          Represented           Status    Objectives                       problems
8/92       2       2           Econ, IrrEng             3           3       Legal; social
12/92      3        8           Econ, IrrEng            2            2       Counterpart funds; social
3/93       2       14           IrrEng, Env             2           2       Legal
7/93       1       4              IrrEng                3           3       Social; legal
12/93      2        7           IrrEng. Env             2            2       Training; monitoring and evaluation
6/94       1       7              IrrEng                2           2       Civil works delays
1/95      2        7        IrrEng, WaterSpec           S           S       Civil works delays; social
8/95       2       4         IrrEng, WaterSpec          S           S       Funding; social (Tuxa)
9/96       1       5            WaterSpec               S           U       Delayed irrigation infrastructure
1/97       1       6              IrrEng                S           U       Delayed irrigation infrastructure
11/97      2        4         Anth, WaterSpec           U            U       Delayed irrigation infrastructure
4/98       1        7           WaterSpec               U           U       Administrative problems
5/98!'      2       7         Ag., ProjAnalyst           --          --      --
8/98 1      4       5      WaterSpec, Econ. Biol,        U           U       Institutional problems
ProjAnalyst
1/    ICR missions. Mission of 8/98 combined with supervision, hence rating.



- 59 -
TABLE 12. ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT - CURRENT STATUS
Subproject               Municipality     Number of   Irrigation    Number  Dry Land   Legal, Env. or   Total Area         Operation
Families    Area (Ha)   Of Lots    (Ha)         Public Areas      (Ha)          Start-Up
(Ha)
Subprojects In Production                                   3,182        10,585     3,180     58,451          30,471        99,499
1. Barreiras (BLI)               Petrolandia - PE              95          330         95      2,045             891         3,266           Apr-93
1. Ic6/Mandantes (BL3)           Petrolandia - PE             397         1,355       397      9,540           4,086        14,981  15 semester, 1997
1. Ico/Mandantes (BL4)           Petrolandia - PE             260          875        260      5,626           2,437         8,937   Mar/Oct/Dec-94
lI. Gl6ria(1* -2-3-5)            G16ria- BA                   122          377        123      2,544            1,095        4,016      Apr/Nov-93
11. Rodelas (11-4/5-6-7-8-9)     Rodelas - BA                 405         1,192       405      8,703           3,701        13,596          May-95
Ill. Brigida                     Oroc6 - PE                   431         1,436       431      4,290           2,996         8,722           Feb-94
IV. Pedra Branca                 CurasaAbard - BA             709         2,363       709      7,270            3,747       13,380           Jun-95
V. Caraibas                      S.M.B. Vista - PE            513         1,581       513      14,080          10,613       26,274           Jun-98
Apol6nio Sales (BL5){*}          Petrolandia - PE             100          800        100       1,560            885         3,245           May-93
Manga de Baixo     {i            B.S. Franc. - PE              25           93         25        549                -          642           Dec-87
Brejinho                         Petrolandia - PE              11            11        I1        206                -          217           Jun-96
Jeremoabo         {*}            Jeremoabo - BA                12            12        11         97                -          109           Dec-84
Remanso                          Remanso - BA                  40           120        40        880              20         1,020           Dec-83
Canafistula    (3) {*}           D. Gouveia- AL                29             -        27        830                -          830           Dec-82
Fisheries                        PE/BA                         33           40         33        231                -          264    15' semester/88
Subprojects Under Construction                              1,550         5,796      1,550     13,931          16,302       36,029
1. Barreiras (BL2)               Petrolandia - PE             600         2,036       600      13,135           5,689       20,860   2nd semester/98
V. Caraibas     (4)              S.M.B. Vista - PE            895         3,649       895        400           10,613       14,662           Sep-97
Fisheries                        PE/BA                         55           111        55        396                -          507
Subprojects Under Study                                     1,185         4,131      1,239    21,293            7,988       33,422
11. Itacoatiara(1-2-3-Alag)      Rodelas - BA                 114          403        114      2,443            1,079        3,935
Itacuruba                        Itacuruba - PE               271          930        300       5,845           2,075        8,850
Inaja (Tuxa)                     Inaja - PE                     9           27          9        123                -          150
Jusante                          Gl6ria - BA                  462         1,671       462      4,680            2,449        8,800
Rodelas (Tuxa)                   Rodelas - BA                  88          270        100      3,730             550         4,550
Ibotirama (Tuxa)                 Ibotirama - BA                98          390        100       1,660            610         2,660
Barra do Tarrachil               Chorroch6 - BA               123          406        134       2,669           1,225        4,300
Fisheries                        B.S. Franc. - PE              20            34        20        143                -          177
GRAND TOTAL                                                 5,917        20,512     5,969      93,675          54,761      168,950
Source: CHESF, September 1998



- 60 -
TABLE 13. STATUS OF RESETTLED FAMILIES (AUGUST 31, 1998)!'
Project        Number of Families   Families       Plots    Pending   Plots under    Plots      Bank-   Non-Bank-
Families  with VMT   without   Producing    Plots   Construction   under   financed   financed
VMT                                           Study    Projects   Projects
Barreiras BLI                  95         95           -         84         11           11         -         95
1c6 Mandantes BL3             397        397           -        397          -            -         -        397
1c6 Mandantes BL4             260        260           -        260          -            -         -        260
Brigida                       431        431           -        431          -            -         -        431
Pedra Branca                  709        709           -        709          -            -         -        709
Apolonio Sales                100          -         100        100          -            -         -          -         100
Manga de Baixo                 25          -         25          25          -            -         -          -          25
Brejinho (Varjota)             11          -          I          11          -            -         -          -          11
G16ria (1-2-3-5)              122        122           -        122          -            -         -        122           -
Rodelas (11-4/5-6-7-8-9)      405        405           -        405          -            -         -        405           -
Jeremoado (Licuri)              12         -          12         12          -            -         -          -          12
Remanso                        40         40           -         40          -            -         -          -          40
Canafistula                    29          -         29          29          -            -         -          -          29
Tuxa-Inaja                      9          9           -          9                 -               -                      9
Caraibas                     1,408      1,408          -        513        895          895         -      1,408           -
Barreiras BL2                 600        600           -          -       600           600         -        600           -
Itacuruba (Angicos)           271        271           -          -       271             -       271          -         271
Itaquatiara (NRI, R2, R3      114        114           -          -        114            -       114        114
and Alag)
Jusante                       462        462           -          -       462             -       462          -         462
Barra do Tarrachil            123        123           -          -        123            -       123          -         123
Tuxa- Ibotirama                98         98           -          -        98             -        98          -          98
Tuxa- Rodelas                  88         88           -          -         88            -        88          -          88
Piscigranjas (Belem)           20         20           -           -        20             -       20          -          20
Piscigranjas PE/BA             88         88           -         33         55           55         -          -          88
(Rod/Barra/Coite)
5,917     5,740        177       3,180      2,737        1,561     1,176      4,541       1,376
1/   Bank and non-Bank financed.



- 61 -
TABLE 14. STATUS OF RESETTLED FAMILIES (AUGUST 31, 1998)-IRRIGATION AREA IN PRODUCTION
Project         Number of   Irrigation    Dry Land         Area in Production         Area in Production          Area in Production
Families    Area (ha)      (ha)        (Irrigated + Dry Land)         (Bank-financed)           (non-Bank-financed)
Irrigated   Dry Land        Irrigated    Dry Land      Irrigated    Dry Land
Barreiras BLI                95         330         2,045          282          2,045             282        2,045              -          -
lc6 Mandantes BL3           397        1,355        9,540         1,355         9,540           1,355        9,540              -          -
Ic6 Mandantes BL4           260         875         5,626          875          5,626             875        5,626              -          -
Brigida                     431        1,436        4,290         1,436         4,290           1,436        4,290              -          -
Pedra Branca                709        2,363        7,270         2,363         7,270           2,363        7,270              -          -
Apolonio Sales              100         800          1,560         800          1,560               -           -             800       1,560
Manga de Baixo               25          93           549           93            549               -           -              93         549
Brejinho (Varjota)           11          11           206           11            206               -           -               11        206
Gl6ria (1-2-3-5)            122         377         2,544          377          2,544             377        2,544              -           -
Rodelas (11-4/5-6-7-8-9)    405        1,192        8,703         1,192         8,703           1,192        8,703              -           -
Jeremoado (Licuri)           12           12           97           12             97               -            -              12         97
Remanso                      40          120          880          120            880               -           -              120        880
Canafistula                  29           -           830            -            830               -           -               -         830
Tuxa-lnaja                    9          27           123           27            123               -           -              27         123
Caraibas                  1,408        5,230        15,480        1,581        14,080           1,581       14,080              -           -
Barreiras BL2               600        2,036        13,135           -         13,135               -       13,135
Itacuruba (Angicos)        271          930         5,845                                  -              -                   -
Itacoatiara (NRI, R2, R3    114         403         2,443            -          2,443               -        2,443
and Alag)
Jusante                     462        1,671        4,680                                  -              -                   -
Barra do Tarrachil          123         406         2,669                                  -              -                                 -
Tuxa - Ibotirama             98         390          1,660           -          1,660               -            -               -      1,660
Tuxa - Rodelas               88         270          3,730                                 -              -                                 -
Piscigranjas (Beldm)         20          34           143                           -             -                              -          -
Piscigranjas PE/BA           88          151          627           40            231               -            -              40        231
(Rod/Barra/Coite)
5,917      20,512        94,675       10,564        75,812            9,461      69,676            1,103      6,136



- 62 -
TABLE 15: EXPENDITURES OF THE BANK-FINANCED PROJECT (CAST/FAMILY AND HECTARE)
A. Appropriation of Expenditures
(Us0ooo)
Actual (July 98)
Component                               IBRD       GOB        Total
I. Civil Works                                                     111,003   122,466   233,469
2. Equipment                                                        99,780    17,831   117,611
3. Consulting Services                                              21,217    20,960    42,177
4. Urban Infrastructure                                                 --   99,721    99,721
5. Rural lnfrastructure                                                 --   140,813   140.813
6. Educationi and Healti                                                --      9,856     9,856
7. FisI -y Development                                                  --       575        575
8. Engineering Design and Supervisiol                                    --   24,483    24.483
9. Tuxa Community                                                       --        297       297
10. Miscellaneous                                                       --   69.827    69,827
11. Investmenits Planinled (est.)                                       --    15,000    15,000
Total                                                              232,000   521,829  753,8293;
TIotal Number of Families Settled                                                         4,427
Total NuLImber of Hectares Irrigated                                                     15,194
I/ Includes expenditures on drainage, project operation, land titling, environmental protection and project
administration.
2/,  Comprising essentially completion ofCaraibas and Barreiras Block 2.
3  This incltides $738.8 million actual expenditures and $15.0 million planned expenditures to complete
projects.
B. Calculation of Unitary Costs
(US$'000)
Situation 1
COST PER FAMILY (12-4)/13                                                               147,754
COST PER HECTARE (12-4)/14                                                               43,050
Situation 2
COST PER FAMILY (12-4-6-7-(50% of 8)-9-(50% of 10)/13                                   111,076
COST PER HECTARE (I 2-4-6-7-(50% of 8)-9-(50%of 10)/14                                   32,364
Situation 3
COST PER FAMILY (12-4-5-6-7-(50% of 8)-9-(50% of 10)/13                                 102,871
COST PER HECTARE (12-4-5-6-7-(50% of 8)-9-(50% of 10)/14                                 29,973
Situation I = Total costs minus urban infrastructure
Situation 2 = Total costs minus: urban infrastructure, education and health, fishery development, 50% of the
engineering and supervision costs, Tuxa community, and 50% of the contingency costs.
Situation 3 = Total costs minus: urban and rural infrastructure, education and health, fishery development, 50%
of the engineering and supervision costs, Tuxa community, and 50% of the contingency costs.



- 63 -
TABLE 16. CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATION OF INVESTNIENT SOURCES
US$ Million
Investment  Estimated Total
through 1997   at Conclusion
I BRD                  232.0           232.0
GOB                    725.9           968.0
Total         :        957.7         1,200.0
Investment through Dec/1 997
75.80%
EQIBRD MGOB
24.20%
Total Investment (Estimate)
00BG7
j j iw                     B~~~~EIBRD  NGOB



- 64 -
TABLE 17. SUMMARY FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, ILLUSTRATIVE MODELS
BORDA DO LAGO/SPECIAL SCHEMES
Item                 Annual Crops Only        Annual Crops with Fruit
(Year 0)              (Full Development)
(R$)                        (R$)
A. Borda do Lago
Gross value of production            10,286                       17,435
Costs:
lnpuits 7                         4,489                        5,114
Labor                               726                         944
Various                             279                         279
'2ross income/revenUe                 4,792                      11,098
B. Special Schiemes
Gross value of productioll           12,299                       18,486
Costs:
InIpIts                          5,256                        5,389
Labor                               722                         662
Various                             279                         279
Gross incomile/revenlue               6,042                       12,156
Source: Consultant Study (1998)
TABLE 18. CROP YIELDS, BORDA DO LAGO PROJECTS (1993-1996 AND POTENTIAL)
Crop                                  Yields (tons/ha)
1993        1994        1995         1996        Potential
OnioIn                    21.9         15.2        15.5         10.1        20-25
Beans (phaseolus)          1.0          1.2         1.1          1.3        1.6-2.0
Beans (rigua)              0.2          0.3         0.6          0.5        1.2-1.5
Mango                      1.4          1.2         1.5          1.5        1.6-2.0
Melon                     11.6         10.6        14.4         10.4          16
Sandia                    19.4         19.5        18.3         15.4        25-30
Tomato                    25.0         21.2        16.6         15.3        40-50
Zapallo 74                --            7.7        15.8         11.7        12-25
72  Includes cost of water estimated at R$507 and R$803 per year in Year 0 (annuals only) and at full development
(annuals and fruit), respectively.
73  Includes cost of water estimated at R$516 and R$813 per year in Year 0 (annuals only) and at full development
(annuals and fruit), respectively.
74  Yield depends on variety: potential yield of the variety "corva" is estimated at 12 tons/ha, and of the variety
"Jacarezinho" at 25 tons/ha.



- 65 -
TABLE 19. STAATUS OF LAND TITLING
Item           Project             Type   No. of Titles   Area of    Area to be    Designs       L ,CRA     Municipal   Entry in        Title
Proj ect (ha)  Acq uired               Approval   Approval   Registry/   Presented
_  _                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Publication
K Remanso
2  Manga de Baixo                 L.l        25           ,642=__
3  Varjota                              ___ ____           217
4  Brigida                        LI        431          8,722
5  ApolOnio Sales                 LI        100          3,:
6  Gloria                         LI        122          4,016
7  Pedra Branca                   LI        709         13,380
8  Caraibas                       LI       1,408        31,323
9  Ieo-Mandantes                  _f_657                23918 
10  Barreiras                      LI        695         24,126
11  Rodelas                        LI        405         13,596
12  Itaquatiara                    LI _      114          3,9
13   usante                        LI        462          8,800
14  Barra do Tarrachil             LI        _  _   123   4,
15  Itacuruba                      LI        271          8,__ _
16  Tuxa/Rodelas/Inaja/Ibotirama   LI        195          6,200
17  Barra do Tarrachil             PS         I_             97
18  Coite                          PS         22
19  Rodelas                        PS         26            :
20   ngicos                        PS         29            257
_21  Belem S30 Francisco_       _____ PS    ______ 20__________                                                                         __  
Key:   *   Concluded           Under        [Awaiting definition      7  To be done
*                  -  execution    aor legal periods
Notes: I. INCRA approval will not be sought for the Remanso, Manga de Baixo and Varjota programs.
2. The need to acquire new lands for the Tuxa program needs to be reassessed.
3. Titling can only be initiated after the contents of the document and the manner of transferring common goods have been determined.
LI = Irrigated lots; PS = Fish farms
Source:     Grupo de Trabalho para Regularizacao FundiAria - GTRF
Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco - CHESF
Diretoria de Engenharia - DE
Coordenadoria Especial do Empreendimento de Itaparica - CEI



ANNEX I
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSULTANTS' STUDY - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(Translation)



ITAPARICA
RLSETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Evaluation of the tasks financed by the BIRD
Executive Summary
Michael Raczynski
Pablo Anguita Salas
Consultant Engineers
I



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I - INTRODUCTION
The Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project was created and designed
exclusively on behalf of the population affected by the construction of the dam, water
reservoir, and hydroelectric plant of Itaparica. Construction of the hydroelectric plant
began in 1979 and had priority both from the federal and state governments as the only
solution to ease the lack of energy in the Northeast of Brazil.
In 1986 the World Bank approved a Federal request of a US$ 500 milion loan for the
development of the Energy Sector (Loan n 2720-BR). Although this loan had no
provision of fin-ancial resources for the Itaparica project, its legal documents specified
that ELETROBRAS should (a) prepare and submit to the World Bank a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the relocation of the human communities that would be
affected by the construction of the Itaparica plant, and (b) entrust CHESF with the
execution of this plan of action in a way that is satisfactory to the Bank.
To meet those obligations, ELETROBRAS requested a loan from the World Bank in
1986 to finance the relocation of the affected population. The World Bank prepared the
project in 19,36i87 and in September, 1987 approved a US$ 132 milion loan. A
supplementary LIS$ 100 milion loan was approved in 1990 to meet substantial increases
in the costs of the project.
2 - OBJECTIVES
The World Bank evaluation report (Report n 6914) indicated that the Itaparica
Hydroelectric Project would make an important contribution to the relief of the critical
situation of energy in the Northeast of Brazil. The Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation
Project would complement that action, and its principal aim would be to maintain, and
where possible improve, the life conditions of the families affected by the flooding of the
water reservoir area. The objectives for the relocated families in new irrigation projects
included improving farming and cattle-raising production, providing appropriate dwelling
for 7,980 families that soon turned into 9,100 families, in small rural centers (agricultural
villages) equipped with potable water, schools, health centers, improvement/construction
of country paths, and the improvement and standardization of land property and
ownership conditions. The urban population would be moved to new urban centers,
designed according to modern patterns of urban planning and equipped with relatively
high quality municipal services.
2



The following were the objectives set before these Consultants, concerning the ltaparica
Resettlement and Irrigation Project:
(a)      To evaluate comparatively the objectives and aims specified in the evaluation
report of the World Bank (Staff Appraisal Report 6914-BR: Itaparica
Resettlement and Irrigation Project) and the results effectively reached.
(b)      To determine the causes of the differences found between the projected
goals in the evaluation report of the World Bank and the results effectively
met.
(c)      To compare, on the basis of the Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigaton Project,
the effective average cost per relocated family, with the cost of other projects
of the World Bank, of ELETROBRAS, and of other institutions of the Brazilian
government, as well as with experiences in other countries.
(d)      To evaluate the present situation and the development of the farmers'
associations, determining the critical points and the essential necessities of
caipability and so forth, allowing emancipation of the different sub-projects.
(e)      To present conclusions and recommendations to mitigate eventual problems
or limitations present in this project, as well as to serve for the future
resettlement projects to be executed with World Bank financing.
3 - EXPERIENCES ACQUIRED
There were several experiences acquired during the long process of implementation,
which can be summarized as follows:
- Social and environmental impact.
In 1979 ELETROBRAS started the construction of the Itaparica Hydroelectric
Complex over the Sao Francisco river in the Paulo Afonso sector, intended to provide
the lackincg electric energy in the Northeast of Brazil. The construction of this complex
produced a great impact, both social and environmental, which was not adequately
realized nor taken on by the authorities, at the time of the decision-making about the
construction.
In .1986, ait the request of the Federal Government, the World Bank granted aUS$
500 million loan (Loan n 2720-BR) intended for the financing of the energy sector.
Although lhis loan had no specific fund to finance the Itaparica Project directly, both
the World Bank and the Federal Government agreed to establish procedures to meet
the massive resettlement of the communities that would need to be relocated as a
consequence of the water reservoir construction. ELETROBRAS submitted a plan of
action to the World Bank and put CHESF in charge of execution of such a plan.
In 1987 the World Bank approved a US$ 132 million loan (Loan 2833-BR), just one
and a hall year before filling the water reservoir, and subjected to strong pressure to
prepare and evaluate an acceptable resettlement project in a very short period of
3



time. In 1990 a supplemental loan of US$ 100 million was approved to complete the
work.
As a result of the short period of preparation of the project, the social and
environmental impacts could not be calculated in all their magnitude, as well as the
financial risks of the project.
> Irrigation projects and supporting services for production.
As a result of the scarce time for preparation, the analysis of the avaliable soils to
receive and sustain irrigated agriculture was made in an insufficient way and without
a study detalied enough to permit efficient soil utilization. Fortunately, the designed
irrigation projects, in spite of the scarce information avaliable, satisfactorily attained
the desired objectives.
As for the applied technology, it was the same as that applied in countries with major
agricultural production. For that reason, when the irrigation system was applied, the
users that didn't receive thorough training to be familiar with it complained about its
quality and the material used in the construction.
With respect to drainage, it was postponed (design and construction) because of the
haste to carry out the irrigation work, and now it is estimated that drainage work will
be needed for about 4.300 ha.
In relation to soil salinization and erosion, the detected effects from irrigation
application have been very small.
? Rural and urban substructure.
In the year 1987 an updating of the population and property census was made, with a
registration of 5.917 rural families that should be relocated for being located in the
area to be flooded. A study of possible relocation areas was made and a construction
plan of 126 agricultural villages was done to be constructed in the areas of irrigation
projects. This program of Resettlement was prepared by CHESF with advising from
the World Bank.
The construction of the agricultural villages began in early 1987 with the conclusion of
a greater part of it in the first quarter of 1988. The houses (45 to 65 m2) given to the
resettled people were considerably better than the ones they lived in before the
construction of the dam. The resettlement program was more than a replacement for
the lost substructure. It constructed a substructure that should have existed before.
Besides that, the construction of agricultural villages scattered in areas with small
populations generated additional needs, especially schools and health stations . In
all, 67 schools were built, about two for each village. At first CHESF and then
CODEVASF took on responsibility for the supporting medical services that were
created, planning to then transfer them to the State Govemments of Bahia and
Pernambuco, which have opposed taking on the responsibility. The project did not
4



include any means to guarantee the compulsory participation of the State
Governments.
In relatioin to the urban substructure, the project gave attention to the construction of
municipal government headquarters in the cities of Petrolandia (PE), Itacaruba (PE)
and Rodelas (BA), and the village of Barra de Tarrachil (BA), as well as the
construction of houses, schools, health care centers, public places, power supply
systems, pathways (137 km - 31,4 km of which double paved with asphalt), potable
water and sanitation systems for about 3,200 urban families. Furthermore, public
buildings for municipal and state administration, education, health, social security,
post offices and telecomunication, public assistance, temples for religion services,
sports, ceimeteries, slaughter-houses and market places were constructed.
4 - CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
The Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project is complex and because of its
diversity of components and joint institutions, is similar to the rural development projects
supported by the World Bank in the 1970 s and early 80 s, with the additional
complication of having an emergency aspect due to the late preoccupation for the
transference of the affected population influenced by the flooding of the water reservoir
area.
4. 1- The Resettlement
The resettlernent of the population affected by the Itaparica water reservoir flooding was
executed in na orderly manner, according to the detailed pre-established programs with
a minimum of problems and conflicts, despite the complex support services and the
great number of families that needed to be removed in a very short period of time. The
active participation of the affected population was an important factor. They were
represented by the Union Polo for the conception and definition of standards and
procedures that managed the resettlement.
4.2- Irrigation Projects
The applied enginneering concepts were appropriately selected, in such a way that
generated a well adapted irrigation project, flexible enough to fit the requirements of all
the soil and weather conditions prevailing in areas where they were to be applied. The
elected method, with fixed and mobile sprinklers, was based on the characteristics found
in the soils (shallow soils, with light texture and little capacity for water retention), making
necessary at least a daily irrigation because of the high rate of evaporation common to
the area.
The operation and maintenance of the system, will demand for a team of technicians
capable of furnishing the needed services and water to the several irrigation systems, as
well as experienced operating personnel for each. There is another problem that may
influence the development of this project in a negative way: the costs of the operation
and maintenance, since the diversity of brands and equipment types will claim for a
5



greater degree of training and technical specialization (electrical & mechanical) for the
personnel in charge of these operations.
As for the drainage systems required in the different projects, they must be studied
carefully and the construction work may begin readily, in order to prevent a deterioration
and salinization of the soils.
It is the opinion of these consultants that the irrigation projects and the materials used in
their construction are of good quality, and that the problems that arose during the early
phase of the operation were due to typical adjustment problems in complex projects of
water utilization. Furthermore, we think it will be necessary to increase the capability of
all productive levels, as well as to make appropriate technological transference, to fit the
needs of future users and work owners.
The delay in the execution of the irrigation projects was especially due to(a) a cut back
of the political support for the Itaparica Irrigation Settlement, once the dwellers had been
removed and the water reserve had been filled, and (b) the macroeconomic problems
faced by the country during this period. Both reasons produced a reduction in the
designation of financial resources to the project and a delay in the execution of the
irrigation projects. We should keep in mind that the expected plan of execution was
nonstop for two years (1987 and 1988), as described in the box in chapter 2.6.1. The
first projects of irrigation, co-financed by the BIRD, were handed over in 1993 and the
remainder are gradually being finished by the end of 1998.
The costs of the projects largely exceeded the estimates in the evaluation report of the
World Bank due to the following main reasons:
(a)      Lack of fiscal appropriation in counterpart to the World Bank loan, caused a
delay in the construction of the irrigation project, the end of which was
originally projected for 1988 and is still unfinished.
(b)      The delay in the construction extended the payment of the Temporary
Maintenance Allowance (TMA) for almost 10 years.
(c)      Redesign and adjustments of some projects were due to errors and
additional information regarding the study of the soils.
(d)      Errors of evaluation from the World Bank staff in respect to the exchange tax
(Cz / US$) applied to cost estimations.
(e)      Underestimation of risky prices in the evaluation report of the World Bank
(probably influenced by the initial success of the failed Cruzado Plan).
The irrigation projects co-financed by the World Bank, excepting the areas now in review
in Barreiras II, are self-sustainable by the time the hydraulic substructure is provided,
including the necessary draining work, and some systems and production practices are
introduced to improve and maintain soil fertility.
6



There are drainage problems in 4,300 ha. similar to the situation in other irrigation
projects in this region, for example Nilo Coelho (Petrolina), where draining is required in
20% to 25% of the land. It is advisable to review drainage costs, especially the ones
referring to lhe cost of pipelines and fittings, which seem to be excessive when
compared to other projects. No salinization problems ocurred in the projects co-financed
by the Woricl Bank, and erosion problems were restricted basically to Block 2 of
Barreiras, where vegetation was eliminated, and because of the delay in the proper
functioning olf the hydraulic substructure, the bare soil became exposed to the effects of
water and wind.
Profits from the different cultivations are generally low, and such regressivity is due to
deficient fertilization and to the lack of effective programs of pest and plague control.
Many of the deficiencies affecting the agricultural production are due to(a) lack of or,
insufficiency in timely credit availability for the acquisition of the inputs,(b) problems
due to credit access in the medium or long term, in order to acquire the appropriate
machines or to promote plantations according to acceptable technique rules, and (c)lack
of integrated (predial) systems of production that include all technical, administrative and
financial aspects of an agricultural exploration, from the acquisition of inputs and
preparation of land for cultivation, to the commercialization and sale of the product.
Future development of the irrigation projects will be guided by fruit production, but wiill
be limited by the presence of thinner soils in which industrial and horticultural cultivation
will keep their importance.
It is advisable to encourage the installation of agricultural industries, organizations and
specialized commercialization infrastucture, by means of, for example, fiscal incentives
or economic participation in the form of real estate, temporary subsidies of different kinds
(power or water cost reduction) and/or guarantees of minimum annual production of raw
material to be processed or traded.
Furthermore, the development of fruit production will require intensive technical support
for the new producers, and medium term credit conditions compatible with economic
expectations.
As more irrigaited land area begins producing, the rising work area will demand more
manure, as this product is required to increase fertility and physical conditions of the
soils. This product, however, is not abundant in the region. Relocated producers have
rights over paisture lands, on which extensive bovine (and caprine) cattle raising is
developed. It is advisable to promote a kind of rural support agreement with a
specialized cal:tle raising research institution, in order to provide the necessary technical
assistance to promote more intensive cattle raising activity, based on milk, cheese
and/or meat aind manure commercialization, using "sequeiro " areas for pasture (taking
back cattle heads at night) and intensive production of feed under irrigation condititions.
7



The irrigation systems designed and the orientation to horti-culture and fruit production
both create significant needs for specialized technical assistance, and as far as this kind
of support has been considered in the conception of each of the irrigation projects, it has
not been effectively provided under satisfactory conditions. With the implementation of
the new focus, introduced in September 1997, each project is going to have installed a
self-managed group or company, each with the contracted responsibility for all the
operation and maintenance services of all the irrigation infrastructure, as brief as
possible, and including various support services for the producers. These self-managing
teams will initially be financed by CHESF, and will be technically assisted by the Union
Polo and IICA.
Although these consultants recognize the effort of CHESF, IICA and the Union Polo to
have a bigger participation of the resettled through their organizations in the formulation
of programs of technical assistance and rural extension, they also estimate that the
following main risks exist under the new focus:
a)  The Union Polo has a marked political tendency and the relationship of technical
assistance and rural extension with a political entity always constitutes a risk and
easily leads to conflicts.
b)  According to statutes, the main objective of the Union Polo is the defense of the
rights of the rural workers displaced by the flooding of the Itaparica Reservoir. The
objective of the project financed by the World Bank is (i) the transformation of the
resettled into efficient producers and small managers, and (ii) the establishment of
na organization of procedures, able to operate and to maintain the watering and
drainage substructure and to give technical assistance and rural extension in
production, credit and commercialization aspects. By following these terms, the
Union Polo loses its role as defender of the rural workers, and should revise its
goals in order to face new demands.
c)  In the case of a forced resettlement like Itaparica, access should be offered to
technical assistance and agricultural extension to all those affected. However,
massive programs are in general less effective and more expensive. It is
recommended that during the period of transition, and taking advantage of the
assistance of IICA, the system, methods, and way of providing technical assistance
and rural extension should be revised, with the objective of (i) giving a more
intensive integrated technical assistance to the innovative producers and first
adapters, and only incorporating a more intensive assistance to the other ones,
when they express specific interest; (ii) looking for greater coordination and support
from the Federal Government , universities and private centers that relate to
agricultural research, and (iii) establishing, in cooperation with the centers of
agricultural research, units of validation of technologies and production systems in
the different sectors of watering projects related to innovative producers.
These consultants recommend the design and introduction, in the shortest term possible,
of a monitoring system and pursuit (a) of the agricultural stage of development in the
different irrigation projects, and (b) of the action of the companies or self-managed
cooperatives in charge of the projects.
8



4.3 - Rurall infrastructure and social services.
The rural inl'rastructure that was built during 1987 and 1988 is, in general, in acceptable
condition after approximately 10 years of use, without any maintenance. But in some
very specific and well-known areas, houses were built over soils that turned out to be
expansible clays that, in a short period of time, produced differential movements of
floors, causing severe cracks which put the stability of these houses in danger.
These consultants, through the summary of antecedents and the information obtained
from the organized users, have been able to verify that most - or all -of these houses
have been rebuilt/repaired. The rural paths built, however, haven't had enough
maintenance, which has caused big delays and deterioration of fruits and vegetables
that are transported over them. Police and health stations, also will have to be
repaired/equipped with their complete endowment, so as to allow them to provide
security and civic attention. This will necessarily bring a reinforcement of the Municipal
Prefectures not only in aspects of personnel but also of financing, so that they can
perform their' work.
It is necessary to point out that a significant number of elementary schools were found,
on the date of our visit and summary of later information, to be lacking furniture and
other essential equipment needed to impart education. Likewise, in other schools there
were no teachers that could assist them. This problem existed beyond the elementary
school level as well. It is of vital importance to impart instruction to the families resettled,
since it is the only way they can progress.
The contribution of CHESF to the education and health services should be limited to the
transfer of financial resources during a limited period. With this objective, it is
recommended to CHESF - jointly with the Union Polo as representative of most of the
resettled - to negotiate with the corresponding Municipal Governments, and State
Secretariats of Education and Health of the states of Bahia and Pernambuco (i) the
immediate integration of the education and health services of the project, to the normal
services of these states; (ii) the financing, by CHESF, of additional investments for an
eventual improvement of the infrastructure and existent equipment; and(iii) a wise term
(maximum 3 years) so that these state governments assume 100% of the operation
costs and maintance of these facilities, including the costs corresponding to the
professional, technical and auxiliary personnel.
Similarly, poilice stations must be repaired and equipped and have a personnel
endowment that allows them to provide civic security. As regards CHESF, it should
begin negotiaions with the Municipalities.
9



4.4- Tuxa Communities
Despite the performed efforts, practical solutions for Tuxa communities have not
emerged. All the demands of the Tuxa that are incorporated in the different subscribed
agreements should be executed by a representative entity of the Indian community in
each resettlement. FUNAI should assist the Tuxa community to organize themselves in
each resettlement, to become capable of self-management and to contract works and
services they require to supply any deficiencies that should appear in the new
organizations during the initial period.
CHESF should care only about the financial aspects - to be determined in time - related
to those services that directly involve the Tuxa resettlement affected by the reservoir
flooding. Technical assistance, services and infrastructure offered to the new families
that come from other zones and wish to join the resettlement, as well as general
programs that will contribute to the development of the Tuxa community, should be
financed with the current resources of FUNAI, and/or other related institutions.
4.5- Legal tenure documents
About 71% of the population that was resettled in the new urban sites have received
the corresponding tenure documents referring to their new houses or small farms. The
remaining cases - in process - refer to complex situations from the legal point of view. It
is recommended to accelerate the procedures of the remaining documents, since this
should permit their owners to appeal for bank credits, in order to improve and enlarge
their houses, or even to begin new businessworks that would create new labor
occupations, benefiting the economic development of the new urban centers.
The legal titling of the rural properties is overdue, and the projections of concluding it in
December, 1998 seem to be optimistic. The staff in charge of such work should be
reinforced with personnel and means, in order to fulfill the objectives. It is important to
emphasize that if the improvement of life conditions for the resettled population is what
we aim to achieve in this project, it is equally important to encourage the sense of
property, so that they can be able to decide about their own future. Furthermore, as in a
forced resettlement like Itaparica, families are not selected by their agricultural
experience and capacity of production. Consequently, a significant amount of families
are expected to abandon the resettlements. With their tenure documents in hand, these
families would be able to sell or rent their properties, so that they could offer
opportunities to experienced farmers interested in acquiring and developing one or
several pieces of land, making a positive impact on the development of the irrigation
projects in general.
10



4.6- Development Strategy
The strategy for the Irrigation Projects should include:
(a)       Qualification of user's capabilities, development of self-management entities
in each of the irrigation projects, in order to transfer operational services and
maintenance among compensation reservoirs of the irrigation systems, and
wAater delivery to all sites, to each own self-management organization.
(b)      Nlegotiation and signing of agreements among CHESF, and the States and
Mlunicipalities referring to : (i) work performance, including social equipment,
roads and such, supplied by the project, (ii) operation and maintenance of all
social infrastructure, including the roads, should be transferred to their
corresponding State and Municipal Secretariats.
(c)       Negotiation and signing of a new agreement between CHESF and FUNAI,
dealing with real costs of financing, so that FUNAI would be able to finish the
proposed works in Ibotirama, Rodelas and Inaja.
(d)      CHESF should limit its responsibilities in terms of financing to a period of no
more than 3 years. All of the operation functions should be transferred to the
corresponding institutions during 1998.
(e)      A definite date for all TMA payments to stop should be negotiated, offering
as an economic support for the self-managing entities of each irrigation
project, an amount corresponding to one year of equivalent expenses.
11



ANNEX II
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE - ICR MISSION



AJUDA-MEMORIA
PROJETO ITAPARICA (Acordo de Emprestimo 2883-BR)
MISSAO DE SUPERVISAO REALIZADA DE 17 A 21/8/98 NAS AREAS DO PROJETO
E JUNTO A CHESF - COMPANHIA HIDROELETRICA DO SAO FRANCISCO.
1. Uma missao do Banco Mundial esteve Recife - PE e na area do Projeto Itaparica, no periodo
de 17 a 21 de agosto de 1998, para proceder uma supervisao do PROJETO ITAPARICA junto a
CHESF  e diretamente no campo. A missao foi composta por Luiz Gabriel Azevedo Task
Manager do Pro jeto, pelo consultor Manuel Rego, pela Assistente de Projeto Paula Freitas e pela
Estagiaria Natalie DuMont.
2. A missao teve como objetivo discutir com a CHESF, ELETROBRAS e com o GERPI a
minuta do Relat6rio Final do Projeto (ICR) e complementar as informacoes fisicas e financeiras
do relat6rio; preparar um Relat6rio de Progresso das ac6es desenvolvidas pelo Projeto Itaparica
de setembro de 1997 ate agosto de 1998 e realizar uma supervisao nas areas do Projeto.
3. 0 Task Manager do Projeto, juntamente com representantes do GERPI, da CHESF, da
ELETROBRAS, do POLO SINDICAL e do IICA, visitou durante os dias 17 e 18/8/98 as areas
de reassentamento do Projeto nos Estados da Bahia e Pernambuco. Um dos objetivos principais
da visita de campo foi verificar o avango alcancado na implementacao do projeto Caraibas e de
acompanhar o andamento do processo de negociacao entre o GERPI e os reassentados.
Posteriormente a missao reuniu-se com representantes de Associac6es e Cooperativas para
discussao sobre o progresso das acoes e para analise da expectativa de conclusao dos Projetos de
Irrigacao e dos procedimentos a serem  adotados visando sua emancipacao. Os demais
componentes da missao reuniram-se com tecnicos da CHESF no sentido de obterem  as
informaq6es complementares necessarias A conclusao do ICR e do Relat6rio de Progresso.
4. As informas:oes proporcionadas oficialmente pela CHESF permitiram as seguintes
conclusoes, pelo Banco e pela CHESF, sobre os dados fisicos e financeiros do Projeto Itaparica
co-financiado com recursos de emprestimos do Banco (ver anexos): i) ate agosto/98, 2.921
familias receberem lotes (kits) em Projetos de Irrigacao em operacao e este total devera ser
acrescido para 3.122 ate 30/9/98; ii) a area colocada em operacao ate agosto/98 eqiuivale a 9.461
hectares devendci este total ser acrescido para 10.187 hectares ate 30/9/98; iii) o volume de
recursos gastos ate julho/98 equivaleu a US$ 738,8 milhoes, dos quais US$ 232 milh6es foram
provenientes do emprestimo do Banco e US$ 506,8 milhoes do Govemo Brasileiro; iv) nos
projetos em construcao deverAo ser gastos para sua conclusao (aptos a operar) o montante de
US$ 15 milhoes; e v) dos recursos totais gastos, US$ 99,7 milh6es referiram-se a investimentos
em infra-estrutura urbana - residencias, predios puiblicos, etc. - e US$ 140,8 a infra-estrutura
rural - Agrovilas -. Os nu,meros referentes as estatisticas do projeto e que serao apresentadas na
ICR forma verificados durante a visita A CHESF. A base de dados a ser utilizada foi apresentada
a missao pela CHESF e esta incluida em anexo (tabelas).
5. Em Projetos (le Irrigacao nAo co-financiados pelo Banco o Govemo Brasileiro despendeu ate
agosto/98 US$ 251,6 milhoes, destacando-se neste total os gastos com VMT equivalentes a US$
87,9 milh6es.



6. A missao informou a CHESF que o documento preparado pelos consultores Pablo Anguita e
Michael Raczynski, contratados pela CHESF atraves do convenio IICA, tambem serviu de base
para a ICR onda foi referido com Borrower's Completion Report. 0 sumario executivo deste
relat6rio foi traduzido ao ingles e entregue a missao. Este resumo sera incluido como anexo a
ICR. A missao tambem discutiu com representantes da CHESF, ELETROBRAS e GERPI a
possibilidade de inclusao de outros anexos que poderiam ser apresentados, em ingles, por cada
um dos grupos ou na forma de um documento consolidado. A missao explicou que nao existe
formato especifico para este tipo de anexo que, constitui-se em oportunidade para o Govemo
(cliente do projeto) expressar a sua opiniao sobre os resultados alcancados, sobre a atuac,o do
Banco, sobre as licoes que foram derivadas da experiencia, entre outros.
7. A missao reuniu-se ainda com representantes do Banco do Nordeste, onde foi confirmado o
interesse do Banco em dar seguimento aos entendimentos ja alcancados com a CHESF e o
GERPI para um tratamento "diferenciado" dos projetos em Itaparica. 0 Banco confirmou o
interesse e possibilidade de trabalhar na area de concessao de credito agricola para investimento e
custeio (embora tenha enfatizado que o titulo da terra seja condicao necessaria para
financiamento do componente de investimento) e de participar do esfor,o no sentido de
viabilizar o repasse de recursos para treinamento, assistencia tecnica, operacao e manutencao e
ate mesmo para indenizacoes atraves das agencias do Banco.
8. No dia 20/08 a missao reuniu-se com o Presidente da CHESF, Dr. Mozart de Siqueira
Campos Arauijo e com  o Diretor de Engenharia, Dr. Leonardo Lins, juntamente com
representantes do GERPI. Neste encontro a missao apresentou suas opiniao sobre a visita
realizada e demonstrou sua preocupacao com as reacoes agressivas de alguns grupos de
trabalhadores e com o ambiente bastante tenso verificado durante a visita de campo. Discutiu-se
que o momento politico contribui em demasia para o aumento da tensao na area do projeto. Por
outro lado, diante das perspectivas de emancipacao de alguns projetos, do processo de
negociacao com o GERPI, que forcosamente exige uma interpreta,co objetiva dos compromissos
assumidos pelo Governo, e da privatizacao da CHESF existe o consenso que algum tipo de
"confronto" entre o Govemo e alguns dos grupos de reassentados sera inevitavel. A missao
enfatizou a importancia de se utilizar efetivamente os recursos orcamentarios disponiveis e
apelou a todos os grupos envolvidos para retornarem a mesa de negocia9ao com o objetivo de
buscar solucoes para alguns do pontos essenciais como titulacao, assistencia tecnica, operacao e
manutencao, valor das indenizacoes, dentre outros.
9. A missao discutiu tambem com os representantes da CHESF, ELETROBRAS e do GERPI
recente materia apresentada na imprensa derivada de um relat6rio do Banco Mundial (OED)
sobre projetos de reassentamento e que inclui um anexo sobre o projeto Itaparica. A missao
explicou aos representantes do Govemo que o relat6rio nao foi preparado pelo grupo operacional
do Banco (responsavel pelo acordo de emprestimo) e pediu desculpas pelo fato do relat6rio ter
chegado as manos da imprensa e do P6lo Sindical antes de sua distribui9ao oficial ao Governo,
embora tenha enfatizado que o setor operacional do Banco tem pouco controle sobre o assunto.
Durante a oportunidade a missao entregou aos representantes da CHESF, ELETROBRAS e do
GERPI uma c6pia do referido relat6rio. A missao entregou a CHESF uma c6pia da minuta
2



preliminar da ICR e informou que a minuta final devera ser encaminha a CHESF,
ELETROBRAS e GERPI proximamente.
10. Finalmente a missao gostaria de agradecer a CHESF, a ELETROBRAS e GERPI pelo apoio
e gentileza que nos foi proporcionado durante a visita.
Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo
Recife, 21 de agosto de 1998
3



ANNEX III
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
COMMENTS BY ELETROBRAS ON BANK'S DRAFT ICR
(Translation)



Informal Tramslation
Mr. Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
Water Resources Engineer
World Bank
SCN Q2 LA -- Ed. Corporate Financial Center -- Con. 303/304
70712-900 Brasilia, DF
Dear Sir,
With reference to your letter dated 9-21-98, in which you attached for our comments a
copy of the draft Implementation Completion Report for Loan 2883-BR, regarding the
Project for Resettlement of Populations affected by the Construction of the Itaparica
Hydroelectric Plant, we wish to submit the following considerations:
1.  In general, the report faithfully reflects the facts that occurred and the factors
throughout the project period. The report is well expressed, is objective and tries to cover
the broad range of aspects involved in the project.
In principle, we have no reservations concerning the description of facts, the tables and
the numerical data. The comments and interpretations, with particular regard to
ELETROBRAS, however, require some thought for purposes of a better analysis and
understanding of the company's involvement in the project.
We are referring specifically to item 25, Borrower Performance (page x), of the
Evaluation Summary, the contents of which are later repeated and expanded in block H,
Borrower Performance (p. 32), of the Project Implementation Assessment.
The statements contained therein, that (i) ELETROBRAS was committed to the project
as a pre-condition for obtaining the second sector loan, which was not achieved and
which thus weakened its involvement in the resettlement process and the consequences
thereof and, as a result, (ii) had ELETROBRAS been more effective in supervising its
investments and in assuming a leadership role as an interested intermediary, the results
might have been different, are totally lacking in facts and premises to support them.
Several clarifications on ELETROBRAS' role with regard to its subsidiaries and on the
process of dealing with environmental issues during the project period, will allow a
reassessment of such conclusions to be made.
2.   Regarding the construction of the Itaparica Hydroelectric Plant (UHE) and the
submission of the second sector loan to the World Bank, ELETROBRAS took the first
steps, with the objective of assuming a more effective role as a holding company, to
understand amd conduct the environmental aspects contained in works programmed by
ten-year plans to expand the country's power systems.
For this purpose, the company evolved from a small group of technicians dealing with
this issue, to a multidisciplinary team specialized in environmental issues and recruited



on the labor market; it instituted the Coordinating Committee for Environmental
Activities in the Power Sector -- COMASE; it prepared the Manual on Studies of
Environmental Effects and later the Environmental Management Plan for the Power
Sector -- PDMA, for use as orientation instruments; at the World Bank's suggestion, it
created the Consultative Environmental Council -- CCMA, comprised of representatives
of Brazilian society, unrelated to the power sector; it also began to act as the executive
arm of the National Department of Water and Electric Power -- DNAEE to analyze
environmental aspects during the study, design and construction stages of power plants
and transmission systems.
These were not chance or opportunistic measures to be later abandoned. Instead, they
represented the understanding that socio-environmental issues had importance and
relevance in the world, that the Brazilian Power Sector needed to adjust to the country's
new environmental legislation, and that it was up to ELETROBRAS to play a sector
leadership role in facing the new challenges of incorporating environmental variables in
the planning methodology and in calculating the construction and operating costs of its
undertakings.
Although the second sector loan was not granted, and regardless of any World Bank aid,
ELETROBRAS maintained the flows of financial resources to works aimed at the
expansion of power systems; it proceeded in its efforts to improve its treatment of
environmental issues and to consolidate itself as an institutional liaison to sector
enterprises, government agencies and international entities.
3.   ELETROBRAS, as controller of CHESF, as co-signer of agreements, as the agency
in charge of transferring World Bank fluds and as financier of the Itaparica Project under
financial cooperation loan agreement ECG- 1201, with CHESF as executor and the
Federal Government as guarantor, routinely carries out physical supervision of
engineering works for the Itaparica resettlement, making periodic visits to irrigation
projects, surveying existing problems with equipment, materials, staff and contractors, for
the purpose of analyzing the compatibility of work timetables with contractual execution
frameworks, issuing reports and opinions on the progress of activities.
On the other hand, ELETROBRAS' involvement in the socio-environmental issues of the
Itaparica resettlement process began initially with the signing of the 12-6-86 Agreement
by MME, ELETROBRAS, CHESF and entities representing rural workers.
Since the start of the resettlement process, which was expected to last until July 1988,
experts in the company's environmental area, by means of supervision visits, began to
monitor the implementation of irrigation projects and submit assessments of the socio-
environmental status of the resettlement, as well as participate in technical meetings and
negotiations.
The three stages of resettlement presented in the Bank report point out three noteworthy
aspects throughout the twelve years of resettlement: project cost estimates and
modifications; need for power supply in the Northeast, which led to the transfer of funds
to other power generation and transmission words; and the economic crises and
renegotiations of interrupted contracts, in some cases quadrupling the original costs.



At the same time, the impediment of proceeding with the original commitment of
resettling farm families on lots in irrigated projects, restoring and ensuring previous
economic activity, brought about great tensions in the project areas. Numerous times
new technical and financial adjustments to projects had to be negotiated by CHESF,
ELETROBRAS and the Federal Government.
During these years, various working groups were created, with the participation of
ELETROBRAS, to evaluate and seek a means of resolving issues and give continuity to
the implementation and conduction of the resettlement process and the emancipation of
farmers.
The first of these groups was formed on December 20, 1990 by Interministerial Directive
812/90, and had the participation of representatives of the Ministries of Infrastructure,
Economy, Finance and Planning and of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. The principal
objective was to present an assessment of the stages needed to conclude the project, and
of the costs of each stage, and to define sources of financial resources, underlining the
following conclusions: acknowledgement of existing social problems; high financial cost
due to work delays and postponement of the start-up of operations in irrigation projects.
Its principal recommendation was to enable the signing of the World Bank loan
amendment in the amount of US$100 million.
Another group deserving mention was created by ELETROBRAS two years after the
release of the World Bank loan amendment in 1993. The objective of this group,
coordinated by the Financial Directorate, with the participation of experts in the area of
engineering and environment from the Directorate of Planning and Engineering and with
CHESF experts, was to present an assessment of the situation and to gauge all pending
questions, keeping in mind the significant delays in project works and operation.
Following a wide-ranging visit to the undertaking and meetings held with community
representatives and CODEVASF, issues were brought out dealing with: physical
implementation of projects where various technical problems were occurring; difficulties
in negotiations with community leaders; difficulties in signing agreements with
municipal, state and federal institutions involved in the project; and the difficulty of
maintaining financial resource contributions.
In 1995, the E LETROBRAS Executive Board decided that an Assessment Report on the
Status of Resettlement in Itaparica should be prepared jointly with CHESF. Following a
cycle of visits and meetings on the project, review of existing documentation and
meetings with principal leaders, the report presented recommendations aimed at creating
the necessary bases for concluding the undertaking and streamlining the emancipation of
settlers. These recommendations highlighted the following aspects: effective
involvement of other ministries; creation of mechanisms to facilitate the implementation
of regional nuclei through the involvement of state governments; and creation of better
management conditions for CHESF, assuring proper organization to conduct the
multidisciplin,ary activities of the Itaparica Resettlement Project.
Significant chtanges in the management structure of the team that conducted the process
occurred after the completion of the report, not only in management terms but also in



terms of the negotiating capacity between CHESF and the community. During this
period there was progress in the resettlement process which is worth noting: various
associations were created; the titling process began; and various models of self-
management were discussed. However, the same did not occur in terms of progress in
works for projects under construction or study.
In 1996, after various meetings among ELETROBRAS, CHESF, and the Ministry of
Mines and Energy, the Itaparica Resettlement Issue was presented to the Executive
Committee of the Interministerial Chamber of Infrastructure Policies, associated with the
Government Council of the Office of the President of the Republic, which decided to
form a working group to propose an integrated Governmental action to solve pending
issues in the Itaparica Project, enabling the administered departure of CHESF from
conducting this undertaking.
On 1 1-19-96, the Interministerial Executive Group on Itaparica -- GEII was formalized,
under the coordination of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, with representatives of the
Ministries of Planning and Budget, Finance, Agriculture and Supply and Environment,
Water Resources and the Legal Amazon. It was the group's recommendation to create
the Extraordinary Group for Itaparica Resettlement - GERPI, with full power to
coordinate and control all actions needed to comply with commitments assumed in the
place of CHESF, over a two-year period, redirect projects under production to fruit-
growing, conclude titling, implement self-management and seek solutions for pending
projects. Thus, the report presented an estimate of R$320 million for the conclusion and
emancipation of the resettlement. Based on this estimate, GERPI is reassessing and
presenting proposals for negotiations with the rural population involved in resettlement.
4.  ELETROBRAS, as Controller, has fully and responsibly carried out its role in the
Project to Resettle the Itaparica Population: institutionally, it represents the project at
federal level and before international agencies; managerially, it monitors the project and
issues general guidance for its conduction; technically, it analyzes the studies and
recommendations of project consultants, especially in the socio-environmental field; and
administratively, through the physical-financial flow, it monitors the operationalization of
measures adopted, evaluating and discussing results achieved.
If the statements contained in the World Bank report were substantiated, the Federal
Government might proceed to check ELETROBRAS' responsibilities in the process of
resettling the Itaparica population.
Sincerely,
ROBERTO CAVALANTI DE ALBUQUERQUE
Adviser to the President
P:\!br\projects\essd\water\2883\ELETIet.doc
Nov30/98



ANNEX IV
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
COMMENTS BY CHESF ON BANK'S DRAFT ICR
(Translation)



CHESF - Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company
Special Coordination for the Itaparica Enterprise (CEI)
Fax # 0194 / 98 Date: Nov. 23, 1998
To: World Bank Attn: Dr. Gabriel Azevedo
Fax: (061) 329 - 1012
From: CHESF/CEI Engineer Alex Loureiro
Phone: (081) 228 - 2328
Fax:  (081) 227 - 3345
Subject: Itaparica Resettlement ICR (Implementation Completion Report)
CHESF would like to make the following remarks concerning this report:
1. On the first page, "ABREVIATION AND ACRONYMS," where the
word CHESF appears, "valley" should be removed. This same correction
should be made on other pages in the report.
2. On page X, item 26, we would like to point out that public safety is the
responsibility of state authorities, not municipal authorities.
3. Also on page X, item 27, last paragraph, where it reads: "Even as it
works vigorously..., CHESF shows a marked reluctance to disengage
from the project..., micromanaging settlers needs and demand, and
adopting positions which in the negotiations with GERPI for the future
self-management of Itaparica, have delayed closure on key strategic
issues,..." CHESF is of the opinion that this statement is not supported
by the facts or data. A better characterization of the situation would take
into consideration the following aspects, all of which had BIRD
participation and approval:
a) beginning in 1996, with the IICA contract, emphasis was placed on
the consolidation of producer organizations in each project, that is,
the establishment of Self Management Entities (known as EAGs);
b) after their establishment, EAGs were to gradually take over service
operations such as ATER (technical assistance and farm support
programs), O&M, and others;



c) In October 1997, when participatory groups left ATER, upon the
expiration of CODEVASF contracts, the first real transfer of
services to the EAGs took place;
d) With the effective arrival of GERPI in April 1998, the whole
transf,er process, as well as the establishment of EAGs, underwent
changes in keeping with the rules of GERPI. An attempt was made
to speed up the transfer of responsibility to representatives of
resettlement communities;
e) Naturally, the changes in orientation had profound consequences in
field activities which were being run by CHESF as well as IICA
teams;
f) Once the adjustment period was behind us, all activities in progress
have followed orientation of the Brazilian government through
GERPI.
4. On page XI, item 28, in the last paragraph, where it reads: "In the current
political... the competition between Polo [the local union] and GERPI...
cast CHESF' and IICA in the position of Polo Sindical's "allies" and
affect the consistency of Government actions in the area,..." once again,
the facts do not fit the allegation which is really just a simple
undocumented opinion emitted by those who drew up the report.
As stated in item 3, in mid 1998, when GERPI began renegotiating
with communities and representatives, including the Polo Sindical, some
of the field processes then underway, which had been developed by
CHESF and IICA, required reorientation and adjustments. It was natural,
in such a situation, for resettlement leaders to react. The Polo Sindical
went so far as to declare, on a number of occasions, that it would have
been better to continue doing things as CHESF and IICA had been doing
them. The declarations by Polo Sindical do not represent either CHESF
or IICA institutional positions. Certainly not a position which " ..affected
the consistency of government actions in the area..." CHESF disagrees
vehemently with that allegation.
5. On page X[I, item 29, letter (j), we are in agreement with this statement,
but would make an important addendum, to the effect that there should
be effective involvement of affected populations in finding solutions for
their own problems. Without being able to feel that they are participating,
all solutions will be seen as government solutions. That makes it
enormously difficult for them to become free.



6. On page 16, item 47, Bloco 1 of the Barreiras Project is cited as being
under study, whereas it has been in operation for some time. Also,
mention is made of the Jusante project, which is not a BIRD-financed
project, although it is a project under study.
7. On page 17, item 50, there is a reference to six (6) years up to 1993,
where the correct figure is five (5) years, from 1988 to 1993.
8. On page 21, item 63, the observations made for items 27 (page X) and 28
(page X1), above, are relevant.
Respectfully,
Alex Loureiro
Special Coordination for the Itaparica Project



IBRD 20448
VFNEZOt.5  '50515                            Th~~~~~r P-,5                                               39 0, F0-f-                               3v                                       3B830'                                    38~003P3
B R AZI L                                                                                                                                                                   Mi-dibr   /                                                BRAZIL
B X    RAZIL                        t  Eaf                                                    o.                                     /   / X                                         9                  ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
| T!1 [ 9 P                                                                     E            R             NC           A            M                B                                                                                          __u_           c     . 0
c                                         0,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 200 50 Or 50
CARA\ /M 920   /                PEfARA CRAbC.t                                                                                               - \ *                                                            810
_''1   \   s                  \    /        S Nloria>5Vistov                                 (3fq                                       EeUmd S Froncisco                              <                                 /\453 \  ~irest            !flviri
PEDOA BRANOCAICbeP
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rldo sS.L  rsradoe                                                                                                                      '3x)Xnl 
-)   \  \ --- \ R;o do Penter;    /~~~~~~~~ jCurOSd                                       \               2                              SO~~aRDO~               ,CC.C         traandia\                                       <        R-'
00 LOGO BA
PASTOr \\%>   -\                    :G16H . Future Resertfoi                                                                                                                               0
A~~~~A.
RB.". Vanniho .                                                   R..e ttl-r t Irigated Aea                                    tA
*   N-o  Project Cities
*Existing Dms and Reservirs                                                                                                     9O30C
Da-  Under Constueian
E.Booting Citins end Tee-a
Futur  Rsrvis                                                                 .
\BR-42   Federal Roads                                                   Boe iid      i
.CCa8use o/ rbe WOPd &rC 5                                              r           -         Caraiba       \.,                                         rE-570    State Roads
BaoOmsP><sIxmpv Ser           _   _  otate Boendaries                                               L                      \                C C DSERGIPE
.reveC,00CnCnoCOCICC                                                                                                           V A/TfX                     -----  International Baundaries                                     t'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.W AO ,._,  '
4o'1 o                                    r 30'                     Oxteder        40*0'                                     39al                                     39-W'                                    38130            ('S-eede,                38,0                                      3730'
AUGUST t97



IBRD 29024R
B RAZ I L                                                                                     4_ ;^Xer  t            brLANrlC-C"AO
ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENT AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
rocONUCION  S-TP-ED NEVERSTARTEYD                                 LOWER-MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO RIVER
IRRIGATION SCHEMES ANDTHR                        CODEVASF SCHEMES                          CLIMATIC ZONES-          0   SELECTED CITIES
~ 1 | l l | LARGE PROJECT SCHEMES      ---500 ANNUAL RAINFALL, IN MM                 I      SEMI-ARID               -     CMAIN  ROADS     PEDUL
LARGE NON-PROJECT SCHEMES                        RIVERS                                     SEMI-HUMID                   S     ECONDARY ROADS    '             BRAZIL I
,B, [___ SELECTED SMALL NON-PROJECT SCHEMES  -    ',I   DAMS/RESERVOIRS                              HUMID                       STATE BOUNDARIES                          B-e,,I   '
4PYY                       400500Y'U,                A                           3oU 3v'U\'                                            D T              TlN      3-'r-'                 E,__ A
40430               /              \                  S930'                                                                  had    38'00                  \'-A
U   10  20  3SE  AO  S 50                                                                                                                                              0                 '2 A"
KItOMETERS                                                                                                                                                      OC)  0  -0   N-                 I NI
AR-NENTNAOEA
|   UtUtEIRs        /P/         \4               ,  :               _       _                  7      f                  ;  /  ~~~T ~        <'          6 5 ^ N  2        /           O /C/  A 1
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
s-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
jr   x  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                /   u   X                                                                        UC  0  5,  y
T-. Roundonm, eoloro, dnDYTDIions    I                                                l             Flo,.
F- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~5.Fi
ghWHBnGopcyu j2                       \ ) R. Ui  
Bm                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-
RTeseroi                                                                            B A   H   I A                                          Paulo Afo/  I 
Tho PEOP do ToTUODIy, RO TO.poTToI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do11
Th.SS                                                                                                                         R -I
th, -p d. -t;,A.p'                           4'UT3D'U'                                              Y'U-                      D'S.      " -pY  TO               IT
Th: W.4d E_k G-p, ..y t.dq'.'.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I 
OCTOBER DY99



