Report and Recommendation




B     elow is (A) Background information, (B) Discussion,and (C>Recommendationof
      the ~iispectionPanel ("Panel")on whether or not there should be an investigation
      ("Recommendation")into allegations made in the Request for Inspection
("Request").


                                    A. Background

      1.On March 12,1997,the Panel received a Request which alleged violations by
Management of policiesand procedures of the International Bank for Reconstructionand
Developmeint ("Bank')in relation to the ItaparicaResettlementand Irrigation Project

and Bank Pi-esidentof receipt of the Request (meaning"Registration"under the Panel's
("Itaparica"or "Project").On March 19,1997,the Panel notified the Executive Directors

OperatingProcedures).' On April 28, 1997,the Panel received Bank Management
response ("Response")to the Request.2
      2. Itaparica is the firstBank-financed stand-alone resettlementproject. It was
designedspecifically to benefit the population affectedby construction,beginning in
1979,ofthe Itapanca dam and reservoir. Constructionofthe damwasnot financedby the
Bank. Seven years later and two years before floodingof the reservoirwas scheduled
(1986),the isovernment ofBrazil ("GOB")requested Bank financingto take care ofaffect-
ed people. The Itaparica loanwas approved by the Banks Board ofExecutive Directorsin
1987foranamount of US$132 millionequivalent.Under an amendingagreementin

cost overruns. The Bank has been involved in the design of the Project since the early
 1990a sup$emental loan of US$lOO millionequivalentwas approved mainly to cover


sion of the loan's closingdate-until
 1980sand iri its implementation sincethe1987.In 1996the GOBrequested afourth exten-
to continxe supenjsion through December 1999.The Response notes that approximately
                                          end of 1997-and it has also requested the Bank

US$l@Omillion additional financingd l be required to satisfactorilycomplete (he Project,

 The Requestfor Inspsction
      3.The Request was filed by a group ofabout 121individualsand alocalorganization
 called Pólo Sindical do Submédio São Francisco representingpeople who live in the
 Project area (the "Requesters").The Request claims that the standardsofliving,health,and
 economic we:ll-beingof people li>ingin the Project area have been directly and adversely
 affectedas a result ofconsttuction of the Itaparica hydroelectricdam-located on the São
 Franc.iscoRiver, at the border of the Bahía and Pemambuco stares-the    faulti;execution of

                                              237

238 Brazil: ItaparicaResettlementand Irrigation Project (Loan 2883-1BR)

the above-referenced Project, and the Banks omissions and failuresin the preparation and
implementation of the Project. In general, it is alleged that a significantproportion of the
about 40,000beneficiaries(6,000families) of the resettlement Project are in worse social
and economic conditions than before the construction of the Itaparica dam.
     4. Specificallythey claim,inter alia, that after 10years of involuntary resettlement
of the Project area population:
     only 35 percent of the Project's six irrigation systems have been completed (6,800
     hectares), 34 percent are under construction (6,000hectares) and 31 percent (6,000
     hectares ) are still in the design phase;
     the Tuxá indigenouscommunity has been resettled in the Municipality of Rodelas
     but is unable to grow crops, since the irrigation system promised is still under
      design;
     several of the irrigation systems already constructed have serious operational and
     maintenance problems which owners cannot afford to repair;
      serious ecological problems have emerged during project implementation, including
      soil erosion and salinization;
      there is an evident deterioration-because of the poor quality of the materials uti-
      lized in construction-of some of the Project's 110agricultural settlements
      (Agrovilas),which include health and education infrastructure,and less than half of
      them have been repaired;
      5. Alleged adverse effects resulting from the delays in the installation and commis-
sioning of the irrigation projects include a lack of sustainable sources of income and a
related increase of violence in the resettled communities, alcoholism,and familybreak-
down.
      6. The Requesters claim that harm suffered is a result of violations of various provi-
sions of Bank policies and procedures set forth, inter alia,in the following:
      Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects (OD 4.00, Annex B)
      Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)
      Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
      Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
      Supervision (OD 13.05)

Munugement Response
      7. The Response admits that the "current situation is far from ideal" but claims
that the "shortcomingsto which the Request points do not arise from the Banks fail-
ures to follow its policies."
      8.The Response cites as the "mainproblem"the completion of irrigationinfrastruc-
ture for the "5,800families affected by the dam"and notes that the "scopeof the agreed
project to be financed by the Bank is limited to rural housing, urban infrastructure and
five major irrigation subprojects encompassingabout 4,500 irrigated plots. The Banks
accountabilityshould not be extended to non-Bank financed irrigation subproject
encompassing some 1,300plots."

AdditionulInfomution
      9. The Panel continued to receive additional information from both the Requesters
and the Management after the Response was received. As provided in the 1996review of

                                                                   Reportand Recommendation   239

the Resolution,the Panel indicated to the Board that it would evaluate the additional
information and would then submit its recommendation as to the need, if any, for an
investigation.3
      10.In addition, the Panel considered information obtained during Mr. Richard
Bissellk. ("Inspector")later review conducted in the Project area fromJune 16-20, 1997.+
Prior to this visit the Inspector consulted with the Executive Director representing Brazil.
In the field the Inspector consulted with the GOELincluding officials of SEAIN, FUNAI,
CHESF, CODEVASF,and ELETROBRAS,and the Chairman of the Interministerial
Committee in the Ministry of Mines and Energy-people             in the Project area,and their
representativesfrom Pólo Sindical do SubmédioSão Francisco. After his visit the
Inspector consulted again with the Bank Executive Director representingBrazil.


                                      B. Discussion

      11.The discussion below is based on the Panel5preliminaryreview of the Request,
Response, and the additional information either delivered or provided through subse-
quent interviews in the field and in Washington, D.C. Consultations with Brazilian
authoritieswere conductedin Washington, D.C.,through the Executive Director for
Brazil, in Brasilia,in Recife, and in the Project area.

EZigibiZity of the Request
      12.Pursuant to paragraph 19of the Resolution it is the responsibility of the Panel
to "determinewhether the request meets the eligibilitycriteria set out in paragraphs 12 to
14"after it has received the Response, and the Executive Directors have expressed the
hope that the Panel process will not focus on "narrowtechnical grounds"with regard to
eligibility.
      13.The Requestwas filed with the Panel on thebasis of the oneundisbursed loan in
this Project,2883-1BR, and in subsequentdiscussions the Requestersinsisted that their
Request relates only to the one loan.
      14.Management'sResponse states that "[ulnderthe Board Resolution establishing
the Inspection Panel (Resolution 93-10, 9/22/93) this Request is ineligible for considera-
tion because more than 95 percent of the Loan Proceeds had been disbursed as of the
date the ReqEest was received.However, in the interest of transparency, the following
detailed response has been prepared."
      15.Since the Resolution that established the Panel does not refer specifically to the
cases where the Bank has provided an original and one or more supplemental loans for
the same project and given the fact that the requesters claim that their Request refers
exclusively to Loan 2883-1-BR, the Panel requested Management to further elaborate on
its claim that the Request was ineligible.
      16.On May 22, 1997, Management sent a Memorandum to the Panel which stated
the followingin relation to this matter:
      "TheRequesters'clairn that their Request `refers exclusively to Loan 2883-1-BR'is based
      on a misunderstandingof the nature of the additionalfinancing made availableto the

      ing agreement in 1991,by the amount of$iOO.O million, to coverpart ofa cost ovewun.
      Borrower: Theoriginal loan amount of $132.O millionwasincreased, under an amend-

240 Brazil: Itapanca Resettlement and IrrigationProject (Loan 2883-1BR)

      From the legal and operational standpoints, the original and supplemental loansconsti-
      tute one singleloan. There is one amortization schedulewith two tranches (payments
      endingin 2003), and the projectobjectives, project description, and the list ofdisburse-
      ment categorieswere not altered by the ammdment. The Closing Date was extended

     fact that the additionalfinancing received an additionalsu&-number
      through the amendingagreement, asit has been successivelyextended since then. The
                                                                               (2883-1) reflects
      apractice of theLoanDepartment andit sewesfor housekeepingpurposeson@.
      According to the Loan Department, $5,857,453.09 remainedundisbursed asof the
      Request date. Sincethis amount representsapproximately2.5%of the total amount of
      the loan ($232.0 million) the request in question does not meet the eligibility criteria set
     forth in paragraph 14(c) of the Board Resolution.'I5

95%Limitation
      17.In view of the stated position of the Requesters, the Panel believes that the
above-mentioned 95% limitation is not as clearly applicableto this case as Management
claims, for the followingreasons.
      18.First, the mere fact that there is a single project,with the sameobjectivesand
features,does not necessarily mean that separate financingprovided in successive
stages-years apart-constitute legally or practically a single loan.
      19.Second, the records indicate that the Executive Directorsintended the 95% dis-
bursement figure to be an indicator of completion of the project financedby the lom6In
this case all parties agree that the Project is far from completion. Indeed, less than 50 per-
cent of the irrigationworks are completed, and it is clear that the Bank intends to retain
at least a supervisory role in the Project possibly until December 1999in order to ensure
full compliancewith the policies and procedures on involuntary resettlement.

Number of Loans
      20. As far as the discussion on whether there were one or two loans for this project,
the record appears rather confusing.
      21. First, it is not quite clear that loans 2883 and 2883-1 BR constitute a single loan,
as stated by Management:the amortizationscheduleprovided in the amending agreement
that granted the supplemental loan clearly showstwo differentamortizationtables for each
of the so-called"tranches,"with different graceperiods and amounts of principal pay-
ments. Furthermore, the customary 60-day graceperiod for commitment chargeswas
granted for the second loan as of the date of the amending agreement.Finally,the Loan
Department'srecords show Loan 2883 BR as closed on December 31, 1994. (See
Attachment.>
      22. In addition, the reference to loan 2883-1 seems to reflect more han a mere
"practiceof the Loan Department ...[that] ..servesfor housekeeping purposes only"
                                                ,
since the amending agreementof November 1,1991,which protided for the supplemen-
tal loan, is identified as "LoanNumber 2883-1 B R and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement entered into between the Federative Republic of Brazil, ELETROBRAS,and
CHESFand the Bank onJuly 20, 1992,refers to "Loans2883 and 2883-1 BR."Other
documents signed by the Bank relating to this Project,however, refer either to Loan 2883
or Loan 2883-1 BR. It is difficult to imagine that this distinction between both loans in
many Bank official documents would exist if they were a single loan.

                                                               Report and Recommendation 241

      23. The :recordsof the Borrower and Guarantor are also inconsistent. The authoriza-
tions for borrowing and guaranteeing the supplemental loan issued by the Federal
Senate,the Ministry ofEconomy,Finance and Planning, and the Central Bank referred to
a separate loan of US$lOO million equivalent that would supplement the original loan for
this Project. The legal opinions issued on behalf of the borrower (ELETROBRAS)and the        ,
guarantor (the Federative Republic of Brazil) are consistent with this description of the
transaction. However, the Central Bank subsequently amended the Certificateof Registry
of both loans to refer to a single amount equivalent to US$232million, and so does an
amendment to the SubsidiaryLoan Agreementbetween EL.ETROBRAS and CHESF,the
executingentity
      24.As sta.tedabove,the 95%limitation seemsto have been intended to excludepro-
jectswhich are substantiallycompleted.There are two iscueswhich were not clarifieddur-
ing discussionson creation of the Panel:whether the limitation of paragraph 14(c)of the
Resolution refers only to the percentage of disbursementof the loan proceeds regardlessof
the status of executionof the project, and the issue of how to calculate the 95%when there
are two or more loans financingone project. The Panel requests the guidance of the
ExecutiveDirectorson this aspect of the eligibilityof this Req~est.~The Panel is satisfied
that all other ehgibilityrequirementsestablishedby the Resolution have been met by the
Requesters and the Request.
      25. Given the fact that the ExecutiveDirectors have instructed the Panel to "focus
less on technical eligibilitycriteria and more on actual or potential damage...",and in
fairness to the Itequesters,who seem genuinelyaffectedby the current project status, and
Management,which has provided a detailed Response,the Panel has proceeded as
though the Request were eligiblein order to be able to present the substantive issues to
the Executive Ciirectors.

PreliminaryEvidence of Material Ham
      26. The harm allegedby the Requesters originatesin the involuntary resettlement
associatedwith the construction of the Itapanca hydroelectricproject in the São
Francisco valley.The Requesters argue that the Bank has been involved in the entire
power sector development in northeastern Brazil through a variety of loans, and that this
particular project, the Itapanca Resettlement and Imgation Project, has resulted in sub-
stantial damage of an economic, environmental, and socialnature. The principal prob-
lems raised, and confirmedby Management as well as the Panel,include:
      (1) Almost 10years after the compulsory removal and relocation of the population,
less than half of the irrigation projects have been installed, with the remainder either
under constructi.onor stillir, the design stage.
      (2) Among the installed irrigation systems,many suffer from technical problems in
operation and maintenance (OQM). There are severalviews as to the soiirce of these
O&M problems. One allegationfrom Pólo Sindical,as related to the Inspector, is that the
design was mistaken from the beginning, with the irrigation systems too expensive as
capital investments and in consuniing electricity for operation; from that point of view,
the Bank`s effort to ensure "stateof the art irrigationsystems"has been a costly misadven-
ture. This view seems to have.someimplicit support from the implementing agencies.
CHESF management informed the Inspector that it expects to have to provide subsidized
power to the fanners for at least 20 years, and others say indefinitely.

242 Brazil: Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan2883-1BX)
      Management portrays the problems differentlybut very concretely:"occasionalvan-
dalism resultingin damage to irrigation equipment,"and a "reluctanceon the part of the
farmers to assumeresponsibilityfor the operation and maintenance."Managementis
working hard to assist in the establishmenlof various institutionalarrangements-particu-
larlywater users associations-to    solve these problems for the farmerson a sustainable
basis.Managementhas argued that this is not a design problem, since the identical agricul-
tural techniqueshave been used in similar imgation projectsin Brazil with great success. If
that is true, and it appears to be so, and the soils are suitablefor farming,then there is a
major implementationproblem.
      Indeed, other issues appear to have made it difficult to make the irrigation systems
operational. The availabilityof counterpart funding on the part of the borrower has been
one limiting factor.A second and perhaps more important issue has been the lack of
extension servicesto convince the farmers that there will be viable income flows once the
land  IS irrigated and producing crops. In this regard, the technical assistance provided
with Bank funding was criticized, in conversationswith the Inspector, as either too little,
too late, or wrong. Only now, after a number of years, are the Bank and CHESF consider-
ing a radical restructuring of the system of providing technical assistance in order to
make the farms viable in a manner that would give confidence to the farmers. This entails
a substantial departure from the crop patterns and commercialization strategies envisaged
in the SAR.
       It is now also understood that the originaldesign concept of resettling families that
had been subsistence farmerswith traditional, river-bottomfarmingmethods on new
dryland areas with intensive irrigation and artificialinput needs might have been mistak-
en Crop yields of annual vegetables are declining substantiallyyear to year,even on the
better soils. Many of the familieswill simply not adapt to the very different agricultural
requirements, and that explainswhy many of the farmers are unwilling to take on the
responsibilitiesassociated with self-managementof the irrigationsystems.The chairman
of one of the farmersassociationsexplained to the Inspector that some of the farmers
were never suited for the complexityof irngation agricultural, despite the optimism of
the original design, and that they should be allowed to leave the settlements with com-
pensation, a move that seems not currently permitted. The Brazilianexperts consulted by
the Inspector conveyed a clear understanding of the issues, and a rather different
approach to these situations. They argue for mixed settlements (with large,medium, and
small-scale farms) so that the larger farms ensure adequate marketing systemsfrom Lvhich
the small farmers can draw confidence.The various Brazilian agenciesinvolved with the
Project are considering the restructuring of individual resettlement areas in that direction.
       (3)the Tuxá indigenous community (in the municipality of Rodelas)has be-,n reset-
tled, but is unable to grow coniinercialcrops, since the irrigation system promised has
still not left the drawing board. Management is clearly frustrated with this situation as
well,with an alleged degree of bureaucratic gridlock in the borrowing government that
has defied solution to date. The latest formal proposal from FUNAI, on behalf of the
Tuxá,was for an irngation project that would have cost US$37.5 million, or abcut
US$272,000per family Thiswas clearlyunacceptable to CHESF,which would have to
finance whatever solution is negotiated. The Response portrays the supervisoryrole of
the Bank in this issue as a "mediator,"but evidentlywith limited success.In interviews
with CHESF and FUNAI, the Inspector was informed that an offer is on the table for cov-

                                                              Report and Recommendation 243

erage of Tuxá needs for US$12 million, and with senior level government support it may
be possible to reach closure on this long-standing issue shortly
      27. With regard to four other problem areas, there are disagreementsabout the facts
between the Requesters and Management. The Panel has explored these issueson a pre-
liminarybasis, but would be unable to clearlyreconcile these disagreementswithout a
full investigation:
      (i) Seiious ecologicalproblemshave been cited during project implementation: (a)
soil erosion; (b) soil quality; and (c) salinizationand drainage.
      Soil enxion is an obvious problem in some of the areas. In a number of cases,the
land was cleared of vegetation in the first year, with the expectation that all of the irriga-
tion systemswould be operational within 12 months. Now, in Barreiras,Block 2, with
600 lots, CHESF is preparing to abandon much of the proposed settlement even though
people have been living in the nearby agrovilas since 1987.The damage in Block 2 is suf-
ficiently severe that many of the residents may have to be resettled elsewhere once again.
      The soil quality issue is such that, even with irrigation, the productivity of the soils
in many settlementswill depend upon large and regular doses of artificialinputs. At the
time of project design, there appears to have been inadequate analysisof the soils,or,
according to another explanation, it is said that some resettled familiesinsisted on having
their agrovilas and farms located along the lake, even though it was known that the soil
was not good. One of the reasons for the constantly rising total cost of the Project is that
new investments have to be made to compensate for the weak soils.At this point, the
most popular solution is to abandon the horticultural approach that has prevailed for the
last eight years as was envisaged in the SAR, and instead convert generally to fruit farms.
Such a shift will require provision ofcredit, new farmingtechniques, a big effort in pack-
aging,storage and commercializationin domestic markets and abroad, and at least anoth-
er five years before farmers can hope to be self-sufficient.
      Examples of poor drainage and possible associatedsalinizationwere shown to the
Inspector in the field.From Management5point of view, if such problems exist, they are
rare and isolated examples. In any case,from the viewpoint of Management and CHESF,
any known c,alinizationis in agriculturalareas not part of the Bank-financed resettlement
areas. (Severmalof the Itaparica resettlement areas were excluded from Bank financing.)
The issue is a sensitive one for the Project, since the risk was recognized in the design of
the Project, and CHESF agreed during negotiations that "should problems of salinity
occur within five years of settlement which are not a result of farmernegligence, CHESF
would provlde the affected farmers with a new plot of irrigated land."8Two points of
ambiguity could be a source of future disagreementin terms of timing and responsibility:
(a) What is the starting point for five years: from resettlement or from operation of the
irrigation system?(b) What constitutes "farmernegligence?"Neither issue has been fully
tested yet, even though the SAR foresaw all work being completed in 1988.
      (2) In terms of the houses provided by the resettlement authority in the agrovilas,
1,200houses have already shown structural problems, and some of them have not been
repaired. The Requesters cite problems in about 1,200houses, and indeed, Management
uses the number 1,200in a supervision mission aide-mémoire dated February 16, 1994,
which also m.entionedrepair of 500 houses by CHESE In addition, accordingto the aide-
mémoire, the entire agrovila R1 of Borda do T-ago was so deteriorated in 1994that all the
residents of the village were going to have to be moved. The Inspector visited agrovila R1,

244 Brazil: Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan2883-1BR)
where people stilllive, and the houses were not only cracked in many places, but also
quite a few had collapsed into rubble. Management appears to believe that all of the com-
plaints have been addressed, all attributed to the houses being built on expansiblesoils
that were not detected prior to construction. The supervision mission'caide-mémoire
signed since 1994 do not discuss repair of housing, and so the problem doesnot appear
to have been addressed further by the Bank supervision teams. Discussions with people
in the resettlementswith damaged housing revealed strong sentiments on the part of
many not to be resettled again.While the people are disappointed and angry about
receiving as compensation houses that do not remain standing, many are reluctant to be
uprooted again and sent to another new settlement. CHESF is currently negotiating a res-
olution to this problem, with the Pólo Sindicalas the intermediary.
      (3)The delayin the installation and commissioningof the irrigation projectshas
contributed to an increase of violence in the communities, to alcoholism,and to family
breakdown. In short, the fact that the familiesare living on welfare instead of being
employed is unleashing severe social tensions. Management indicates that it is aware of
reports of these socialproblems, but arguesin the Response that "suchoccurrencesalso
occur in many populations in this region including those unaffected by Itaparica."It
believes that it would need baseline data to determine the effect of the lack ofjobs in
causing these social crises. Since that baseline data was never collected,it is now too late
to obtain it. Management does not appear to see the present project structure as a mecha-
nism that could address such issues. In fact,the observationby the Inspector was that
social problems are grave throughout the region,with a degree of lawlessnessthat would
undermine community cohesion in any case. Nevertheless,the fact that many families are
not yet engaging in productive activities does nothing to dispel the socialills of the area,
and successful projects-of which there are a number in both Bank-financed resettle-
ments as well as non-Bank-financedresettlement areas-have            shown a reduction in the
incidence of violence and other social pathologies.The Inspector visited severalagrovilas
where virtually all of the familieshad been without work, and living mostly on safetynet
payments, for nearly a decade.
      (4) The results ofthe resettlement Project,from the Requesters'point of view, have
been that a significantproportion of the beneficiary population is in worse conditionsof
production and socialreproduction than before the constructionof the Itaparicahydroelec-
tric scheme.Management takes exception to this argument,since the maintenance pay-
ments to resettled farmers(VMT) were not included as a measure of welfare of the popula-
tion. Managementbelievesthat "themaintenance payments, while palliative,have been
sufficient to maintaina level of livingsubstantiallyhigher than previous levels for a large
majoriy of cases."Purely in terms of household income, Managementisundoubtedly cor-
rect.But temporaryincome is not the test ofthe Banks resettlementpolicy.The test is the
sustainableincome being greaterthan, or at least equal to, the family'sincomebefore reset-
tlement, and on that score,welfare payments do not count, and the variabilityof income
fromhighly perishable cropssuch as tomatoesshould be understood. The general experi-
ence has been that income is only temporarily higher for a number of reasoiis.In surveysof
resettlement areas currently imgateci,crop yields have fallen substantiallyyear to year,nor-
mally by 10-20 percent each year. Indeed, the long-termimpact of VMT can be damaging
for the work ethicwhere people are given a choice.The impact of such welfare payments
over so manyyears on the issues raised in (3)would then need to be considered.

                                                               Rtpgortand Recommendation 245

      Another way to approach the issue of standard of living is to examine the question
of public servicesin the new agrovilas.The Requesters did not make a major complaint
about the issue of health and education services,but Management was concerned about
their availabilityin several aide-mémoire.There appears to have been problems recruiting
teachers for the local schools, and it was hard to attract health professionals to health
posts. According to residents interviewedby the Inspector,schoolchildren are now being
bused by CHESF as far as 25 kilometers daily to school owing to a shortageof teachers.
The state governmentsappear reluctant to pick up their responsibilityfor staffing,and
nothing seems to have been included in Project design to ensure.such actionsby the state
governments. Thisis not an unusual problem in Brazil,but nevertheless,the improve-
ment in the standard of living of the resettled familiesshould eventually take this into
account, as was expected in the SAR. The Project was intended to finance construction
and equipping of 59 schools and 8health posts, training of teachers and health profes-
sionals, and the cost ofsalaries for those personnel during the Project period. Many of
these posts and schoolswere built, but remain idle for lack of staffing.
      28. During his field visit, the Inspector visited numerous sites and interviewedvan-
ous settlers. He was able to determine that, on those four issueswhere the Requesters and
Management largely agreed, there was indeed substantial evidenceof material harm. On
the remaining four issues, the Inspector witnessed some actual evidence of the harm
alleged in the Request. The question of how pervasive such harm is throughout the
Project areas would have to be investigatedat length in an investigation.

Alleged Acts of Omission
      29. The Requestersclaim that the Bank failed to provide adequatesupervision of the
Project,and thus the principal omissionrelates to carryingout the terms of the resettlement
plan envisioneldin the Project.The Requestersalso suggest that basic flawsmust have exist-
ed in the design of the Project,p e n the enormous delaysand cost overrunsin the budget-
ed funds for the Project,resultingin the Bank providing an additionalUS$iOO million in
1990(overthe originalUS$132 million),and nowreachingProjectcompletion datewith
only 35-44 percent of the irrigation system in operation.The Requesters are particularly
concerned,now that the Project is nearing closingdate, that the Bank may ceasesupervi-
sion of the Project with less than half of the irrigationsystemscompletedand financed.
      30. Managementdisagrees,stating that they "haveprovided ordinary and, in many
cases,extraordi.naP1levels of supervision due to the complexity of the Project."The
Response cites 21 supervision missions between 1988and 1997.Asadditional evidence,
Management statesthat it suspended disbursements in 1990in dissatisfactionover
progress in the Project, and extended the closing date of the loan four times. The Bank also
attempted to achieve complianceby providing 100percent of the costs of the Project in
l992,in an attempt to speed up implementation.At the same time, Management acknowl-
edges that the completionof the Project is likely to cost another US$lOO million, and in its
Response,Management does not identify a possible source of this financing.
      31.The Panel is prima facieconcerned about a project that was originallyprojected

years'effort. The inspector consuited with Gcvemment authorities about the future fund-
to cost US $304-million, and is now estimated to cost at least US774million, after 10

iiLgfor this Project. It is a matter taken up by the Inter-Ministerial Committeegas part of
the future strategy for the larger Itaparica project. It shsuld be noted that the Federal

246 Brazil: Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan2883-1BR)

Government of Brazil includes the settlements financedby the Bank as well as those not
financed by the Bank in the overall project, and for the Government, it is necessary to
find about $300 million to close out the resettlement issues. In the draft report of the
Inter-Ministerial Committee, the Government makes clear its commitment to find the
funds for the entire project, and it is expected that a large share will be provided by
ELETROBRPIS. The Panel is reassured by the seriousnessof the Government'scommit-
ment, but would expect that the Bank would be confident of Project completion only
wth formal adoption of the report of the Inter-Ministerial Committee.
      32.At a more human level,even if there were another commitment made to com-
plete the Project, one can understand the skepticism and concern on the part of bene!%
claries who have not yet seen successful resettlement as promised 10years ago in a for-
mal agreement.They could easilyexpect the pattern of omissionsof the last 10years to
continue into the indefinite future, especiallyif the Bank were to close out its presence in
the Project.

Alleged Policy Violations

Involuntary Resettlement; OMS 2.34, relating to Indigenous Peoples;OD 4.01, relating to
      33. The Requestersbelieve that Managementhas violated OMS2.33,relating to

EnvironmentalAssessment;and OD 13.05,relating to Project Supervision.
      34. Management disputes the application of OD 4.01, since it was not in force until
October 1991,and otherwisemaintains that it has complied with all relevant policies in
the design and implementation of the ItaparicaResettlement Project. Management goes
on to say that "thecurrent situation is far from ideal, but the shortcomings to which the
Request points did not arise from the Bank's failure to follow its policies."
      35. The Panel is not convinced that Management has complied with all the relevant
policies and procedures. The Panel acknowledgesthat the antecedents of OD 4.01 would
have limited application. The issues of soil fertilityand potential soil salinityare much
more relevant to questions of productivity and the related economic assessments of likely
returns to the investment. In that context, there are serious questions to be raised about
the quality of design and project preparation with regard to the soilswhere settlements
have been placed.
      3.6.The more important potential policy lapses, however, deal with implementation
of OMS 2.33, Involuntary Resettlement and OD 13.05,Project Supervision.Management
has clearly attempted to comply with these policies. Nevertheless, the tests posed in OMS
2.33,Social Issues Associated with involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects, are
useful to assess in this regard: "that,after a reasonable transition period, the displaced
people regain at least their previous standard of living and that, so far as possible, they be
economically and sociallyintegrated into the host communities."(para. 2) The policy also
raises issues especiallypertinent for this Project, such as with regard to the welfare pay-
ments: "Peoplesubjected to relocation are prone to develop the syndrome of settler
dependency if paternalistichelp policies are applied.""Actionshould be taken from the
outset to prepare the transfer of the responsibilitiesof managemerii to the resettled."
(paras. 8 and 16)Finally,"duringimplementation, Bank supervision missions should pay
careful attention to the sociologicaland technical aspects of resettlement as a whole.
Project management should monhor, with Bank assistance if required. the timely comple-
tion of resettlement activities,and the general socialand economic condition of the reset-

                                                             Report and Recommendation   247

tled people."(para.27) On the face ofit, the Project has not met such policy tests, espe-
cially on timeliness,and the detailsof compliance with other aspects would have to be
assessed in the context of an investigation.

Supervision
      37. The Request states recurring concern about the nature of Bank supervision of
Project implementation.It is also concerned about the prospects of future supervision in
light of the impendingclosing date for the latest loan in this Project.
      38. Management attempts to rebut all accusations of faulty supervision. The
Response cites the number of supervision missions (21) since 1988,yet among those
many missions, only five had a resettlement specialist included. Management also cites
the fact that disbursements were suspendedfor a period of time in 1990, and that in
1992,the Bank agreed to cover 100percent of the Project3 costs in order to get it back
on track.
      39. The Panel is impressed by the variety of efforts undertaken in supervision to get
the Project on track, but in many measures they stillseem to have failed. By any ordinary
test of OD I3.05-the    accomplishments of the Project in meeting targets-supervision
was inadequate.With hindsight, it appears that Management viewed this primarily as an
irrigation project, and broader issues raised in OMS 2.33with regard to resettlement
compliance appear to have taken a back seat. The Panel is skepticalthat Management
could have maintained compliance with all covenantsand aspects of resettlement policies
without the addition of a resettlement specialist in missions since 1993. Lately supervi-
sion of the irrigation work has been impressive, and against extraordinary odds, nearly
half of the works have been put into operation.Nevertheless, the original impetus for the
Project was supposed to be successful resettlement.
      40. The many complaints about the inadequacy of the technical assistance (fully
financed by the Bank) on matters of irrigation, soil management, crop selection,and
commercialization received by the Inspector from the settlers seem to indicate a failure to
supervise thLeconsultantsproviding those services.
      41. The focusof Bank supervisionwas not consistent through the life of the Project.
It began in Brazil (1987-901, was then shifted to Washington (1990-961, and as of
August 19915,supervision appears to have been moved de factoback to Brazil.A project
with implementation now over 10years suffers from changing personnel and institutions
weary of the tasks.

RemedialActions
      32. The Management Response includes as SectionV an "ActionPlan"to deal with the
many unfini.shedaspects ofthe Project. The Plan is divided into two parts. The first part
elaborates benchmarks established for an agreement between the Bank and the Gûvernment
ofBrazil to extend the closing date to the end of 1997(Response, page 21). Among the
benchmarks that meet concerns of the Requesters most clearly is the agreement on the Tuxá
program and stepped-up icciianceof land titles. Interviewsby the Inspector revealed sub-
stantial progress. The most important change in emphasis that could impact some issues of
the Requesters would be i9 transfer resources and effort from welfare payments to water
users associations. This remedy makes the Requestersvery nervous,since the bottom line of
waters users associationsis cost recovery With many of the Requestersnot yet showingsus-

248 Brad: ItaparicaResettlement and Irrigation Project (Loun2883-1BR)

takable levelsin agriculturalincome, it seems a recipe for disasterfromtheir point of view
to increasetheir costsbefore their incomeis assured. Somehave been reassured by the deci-
sion of Project managersin many settlementsto begin shiftingfrom annual crops (vegeta-
bles) to fruit trees, now that the weakness of the soils has become evident.In other words,
ths remedy to focuson water users association may be unacceptable to many farmersuntil
comparableeffort is expended on production and marketing.
      43. The second part of the Action Plan relates to a proposal from the borrower that
the Bank remain in a supervision mode for two years after loan closing, that is,until
December 1999.That Plan essentiallyrestates the goals of the Project, so that the original
design would be completed by the end of 1999.
      44. The Panel has now reviewed the draft report ofthe Inter-Ministerial Committee.
It calls for an institutional transformation of the Project that, with adequate high-level
support, could achieve the accelerated completion of the Project. The report calls for a
new agency to be created by the Government to take over the resettlement and agricul-
tural responsibilitiesof CHESF in the Itaparica area. The new agencywould be created to
work closelywith Pólo Sindical and farmers associationsin the area,which would gradu-
ally take on greater operational, civic, and economicresponsibilities.This proposal

has shown remarkable adaptability and commitment in pursuing the original goals of the
should not be seen as a rejection of the work of CHESEIndeed, in recent years, CHESF

Project. Rather,the Government and others recognize that it is time for the devolution of
authority in the valley,and that CHESF should get back to the business of generatingand
distributing electricity.The Requestersseem to be in general agreementwith the thrust of
the report, even though detailed consultations are still to be held, but the long-termvia-
bility of the solution will depend upon fosteringan atmosphere of trust between the new
agency and the fanners (and their representatives)in the Itaparica area.
      45. The Panel concludes that the success of the Action Plan depends upon the will-
ingness of the Government to coordinate all agencies involved.The Inter-Ministerial
Committee created by the Government in January 1997is valuable in its own nght, but it
must agree upon and put support behind the benchmarks of December 1997for the Plan
to be in compliance with loan covenants. Secondly,adequate financingwill be essentialto
Management's expectations. Management refers generally to the need for an additional
US$lOO million to complete the Project.The Government is seeking US$300 million to
finish the broader Itaparica project. That fiindinghas not yet been guaranteed.


                                 C. Recommendation

      46. Paragraph 19 of the Resolution requires the Panel to "makea recommendation
to the ExecutiveDirectors as to whether the matter should be investigated."In this con-
text, and subject to the guidance on eligibility requested from the Executive Directors in
paragraph 24 above, the Panel recommends ihat the Executive Directors authorize an
investigationof the Itaparica Resettlement and IrrigationProject. In the Panel's opinion,
there clearlyhave been direct adverse effectsupon the Requesters. It is entirely possible
that serious violations of Bank policies have occurred, particularly OMS 2.33, OMS 2.34,
and OD 13.05.And the remedial actions proposed by Management,while promising in
character,have not been formalizedyet in Bank discussionswith the Governmentand

                                                                       Report and Recommendation      249

executing agencies. In the absence of formalcommitments,concrete measures, and fund-
ing to carry out the promises to those involuntarily resettled, the Panel does not believe
that the concerns of the Requesters will be met.


                                                  Notes

1.See The InspectionPanel, OperatingProcedures (August 1994),para, 17.
2. At this'point the Panel initiated its review ofboth documents. On May 28, 1997,the Panel informed
the Banks Board of Executive Directorsthat it would deliverits report and recommendation to them by
June 24,1.997.
3. INSPB.97-4, May 29, 1997.
4. The Panel wishes to thank SEAIN and the office of the Bank ExecutiveDirector for Brazil for com-
ments and guidanceand the members of Pólo Sindicaldo Submédio São Francisco and the Bank
department responsiblefor Brazil (MI)for arranging Mr. BisselYs interviewsand particularlythe man-
agement m d staffof CHESF for providinginformation, some exchangeof views,and logistical support
in the project area.
5. Paragraph 14(c)of the Resolution states the following: "Inconsideringrequestsunder paragraph 12
above, the following requestsshall not be heard by the Panel:(...) (c) Requests filed after the Closing
Date of the loan financingthe projectwith respect to which the request is filed or after the loan financ-
ing the project has been substantiallydisbursed."A footnote to this provisionclarifies that "it will be
deemed to be the case when at least ninety five percent of the loan proceedshave been disbursed."
6. The Executive Directorshad varying views on how long a project (as opposed to a loan) should
remain open to inspection.The recordsshow that some Executive Directors agreed with the concept of
excludingprojects that were "substantially"completed. One Executive:Directorfelt that this should be
applied to projects 80-90 percent completed. However, others felt that 95%disbursement was a rea-
sonable benchmark for substantiallycompleted.
7. Another issue that could not have been anticipated by the Board was how to deal with deposits into
specialaccounts.Although these deposits are regarded technicallyas disbursements, in fact a) they have
no relation to actualproject executionsince they constitute a mechanism to facilitateand speed pay-
ments or re:imbursement of eligible project expenditures as they are incurred. Given the new trends on
disbursement recently announced by Management,the 95%limit could be reached quite early in pro-
ject execution;and b) the Borïower must refund to the Bank all amounts that the Bank determines will
not be necessary to cover further papents for eligible expenditures. Such refunds are credited to the
Loan Account.In other words, because of this feature, if the amounts on deposit in specialaccounts or
similarmechanisms are counted against the 95%limitation, a peculiar :situationcould developwhere a
project which is not eligible for Panel review because of this limitation may become subsequently eligi-
ble because of the refund of loan amounts to the Bank. Of course, it would be very difficult for poten-
tial Requesters TO learn about this refund.
8.SAR,p. 24.
9. Given the many problems affecting the Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation program, the Federal
Government establishedan InterministerialCommitteeinJanuary 1997with the objective of reviewing
the program .andmaking recommendationsto ensure its prompt and satisfactory comp1c:ion.

