                                              2


   INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
         -THE    REQUESTFOR THE INSPECTIONPANEL OF THE

                RESETTLEMENTOF PERSONS AFFECTED BY THE
                 WORLD BANK TO INVESTIGATETHEPROJECTFOR
                                    -
             ITAPARICAHYDROELECTRICPROJECT(IBIID 2883-1)
To the World Bank Inspection Panel
International Bank for Reconstructionand Development           - World Bank,
We are peasants who were involuntarilydisplaced due to the constiruction of the Itaparica
dam and are represented by the Pólo Sindical do Submédio São Francisco. We herewith

investigation be made into the execution of the project for resettlement of affected
ask the World Bank Inspection Panel to recommend to the Executive Directors that an
families. Said project is financed by the IBRD; the borrower is ELI3TROBkkS, a
Brazilian state enterprise, and the executor is the São Francisco HydroelectricCompany     -
CHESFwhich is responsible for dam works and resettlement of the:population.

The Resettlement Project, which was the outcome of an intense struggle undertaken by
affected communities, sought to provide compensation for the irreversible cultural,
economic, social and environrnentai losses experienced by the peasant population due to
involuntary removal. It thus sought to raise the quality of living of these people by

the implementation of 11O agnculturai settlements (agrovilas)withhealth and educational
providing them withhousing, education, health and means of production. It consisted of
infrastructure, and six imgation projects, totaling 19,512.5 hectares'. It was a project that

constructed.
was to have iefithe population with better living conditions than before the dam was



involuntaryresettlement isunavorrtïble,the ñan&'spolicy requirestheformulationand
It therefore dealt with concerns expressed by the World Bank which states: "if
financing of a resettlementpian in order to ensure that thosepersomwho are resettled
have development opportunities that improve, or ut leat restore, the livingstanabds

Moreover, accumulated experience regarding the irreversible, adverse impacts caused by
they enloyedprior totheproject" (OD 4.30/1990,       translated from the Portuguese).

dam construction is already weli known by the Bankwhich anaiytes,and regulates them in
its "EnvironmentalAssessment Sourcebook" Vol. 1, Ch. 3 (Social and culturalproblems
Operational Directive-OD 4.00/1989(Annex B EnvironmentalPolicy for Dam and
in environmentalanalysis) and in Vol. 3, Ch. 10(Hydroelectric Projects), as well as in
                                                  -
Reservoir Projects)which requires environmental studies and the preparation of programs
for supervision, monitoring and mitigation of impacts for dam construction and opeation.

However, the ItaparicaResettlement Project has not filfiiled the objective ofpromoting
improved living conditions for those affected, ignoring the policies and regdations of the
financ5dagency, IBRD. Thefollowingdata demonstratethis.

                                               3

Nearly ten years after the population was involuntarilydisplaced, only 35% of the
imgation projects (6,800 ha) have been implemented, 34% are under construction(6,600
ha) and 31%(6,000 ha) are still being studied (Annex A);


operation and maintenance;
Of the 35 irrigation systems in operation, most have technical problems in teksof

The Tuxá indigenouscommunity(inthe municipality of Rodelas) is resettled but unable to
cultivateits crops because the promised irrigation system is stdibeing studied;

The delay in the implementation and operationof imgation projects has contributed to
increased violence withincommunities, to alcoholismand fmuly breakdown (as indicated
May 3, 1991, Operations Evaluation Department).
in 1991by The World Bank and the Environment in Brazil: a Review of Selected Projects,


Thus, nearly ten years afìer involuntary displacement, the results of the Resettlement
Project are that a large portion ofthe beneficiary population is in worse conditionsof
production and social reproduction than before the construction of the Itaparica
Hydroelectric Project.

Pó10 Sindicai do SubmédioSão Francisco and the Itaparica HydroelectricProject

The Pólo Sindical São Francisco was created in 1979as an organization of ruraiworkers
dedicated to the defense of the rights of ruralcommunities in relation to CHESF.


began to operate across municipal boundaries, had a major impact on the Lower-Middle
The innovativeproposai of organizing a committee of rural workers' unions,which later
São Francisco region because it was there that the struggle against the negative effects of
the constructionofthe Itaparica Hydroelectric Project brought together the region's
squatters, tenant h e r s , small farmers and landless people.

Thus, the Polo Sindicalgradually becamea coordinating body for issues relating to the
Itaparica dam and established itseifas a mediator for affected communities in dealings with

of demonstrations, some of them bringing together over 5000 persons, petitions, seminars,
CHESF, the World Bank and local authorities. Over the years it has organized hundreds
protests and campaigns dealing withthe social and environmental effects of the dam.
CHESF built the Itaparica dam onthe São Francisco River, bordering the states of Bahia
and Pernambuco. The dam floodednearly 834.0 km2 and hvoluntady displaced over
40,000 people. However, the companydid not plan in advancewhat to do withthese
penple, despite the dramatic experience of the cases ofthe Sobradinho and Moxotó dams,
both located in the same river basin (AnnexB).

The P610 Sindid began to pressure the companyto obtain inrigated resettlements for the
displacedpopulatiorì, vvhich was acficved withthe signing ofthe Agreement between the

                                              4

Pólo Sindical and CHESF in 1986 (Annex C) which obliged the companyto resettle the
rural population in agrovilasand on land withirrigation.

When Itapíirica began operating in 1988, CHESFwas still taking the first steps toward
meeting the demands agreed with affected communities. It was oniy after the release of
financingfor the Resettlement and Imgation Project was submitted byEletrobrás-CHESF
to the World Bank,that the problem began to be tackled.

displaced communities,not oniy asthe founder ofworks but as co-participant in planning
The Worid Bank thus played an important role in meeting the demands of involuntarily
the resettlement and irrigationprojects.


Iîaparica Dam and for Resettiement
World Bank Projects in the São FranciscoRiver Vaiiey, and Financing for the

                                                                       -
been supporting projects in the São Francisco River Vaiiey, in Northeast Brazil.
The InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) World Bank has
According to a report by IBRD's Operations Evaluation Department (OED), these

but, on the other hand, they have involuntarily displaced nearly 170,000people who
projects have benefited millions of northeasternersby increasing the supply of electricity,


and the Environment in Brazií: A Review of Selected Projects, May 3, ,1991, Operations
demanded solutions for resettlement that were treated in different ways (The World Bank
Evaíuazion Department).



impacts'' of displacement and even to provide social and economic soppoxt to an
hydroelectricity fiom large dams (Annex D), others sought to mitigate the "negative
Although on the one hand someof these projectswere designed to produce


impoverished ruralpopulation.

Eletrobrás, approved in 1986, when the constructionofthe Itaparica dam was oneofthe
In fact, the World Bank provided fiindsfor the BrazilianPower Sectorthrough a loan to
sector'sprincipal priorities; this leaves no doubt about the Bank'sresponsibility for the
in Brad: A Review of Selected Projects, May 3, 1991,OperationsEwduation
socio-emkonmentaì effectscaused by the project (The World Bank and the Environment
Depamnent).
But thiswas not ail. CHESF representatives stated at a joint evaiuation seminarwiththe
World Bank tkat theplanfor vacatingthe reservoirarea (ofí       m c t 2 ) ,submitted to the
WorUBank antistarted in 1986,createdsuchsignficantsociaìtensionsthat theBank,
in ordertogran1an importantsector loantoELE7ROBRA'S.requireid thefornuhion of
a community-basedresettlementpolicy (EnvironmentaiAspectsofProjecrs Co-Fwced

RhSro Soares, IpEA/145, Brasilia, 1994, based on conclusionsof studiesmade by the
by the World Bank Lessonsfor the hture,
                    -                         0%.  Aiencar SoaresdeFreitasand Pedro
World Bark's OED) (AnnexE).

                                              5

Thus, the World Bank'sresponsibilitiesin relationto the Itaparka ResettlementProject
stemfiom twofactors:the dam was partiallyfinanced by a sectorloanto.thePower
Sector,and resettlement,accordingto recommendationsofthe Bank`s evaluation,was
alsofinanced(TheWorld Bank and theEnvironment in Brazil: .AReview of Selected
Projects,May 3, 1991,OperationsEvaluationDepartment).
                                                                                     -
World Bank financedthe conclusionof theItaparicaResett1ernr:nt Project with a US$lOO
More recently, the InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development(IBRD)

million loan, out of a total of US$271.7million [sic], having disbursedUS93.5million
[sic] to date (AnnexF).

In reality, the Itaparica ResettlementProject isa resettlement and imgation project or
nearly 6,000 rural families, the rural populationinvoluntarilydisplacedby the construction
of the hydroelectricpiant and the fillingofthe reservoir.

Thearea and population directlyaffected by the Itaparica Dam

in the municipalitiesof Glória and Chorrochóin the stateof Bahia, fanniandwas flooded,
villages were relocated and communitieswere resettled. In Roidelas(state of Bahia), 71%

municipality's administrativecenter,viliagesand fmlands. hi Curaçáand Paulo Afonso
of the municipality'sresidentswereaffected, besides sufferingthe floodingof the
(Bahia),no areaswere flooded;however,Cura@was the site of a large resettlement
projectthat took in affected populationsfiom Chorrochó,Rodleiasand Beiern do São
Francisco.

The riverbank on the Pernambuco sidewas more affected by fIlooding,with more than
twicethe areaflooded as on the Bahia side. Itacuniba,Petroiândia, Belém do São
Francisco and Floresta saw parts of their land flooded. In Itaciiruba,the loss of land

Petrolândia,the second most severelyfleeted municipality,10:jt9% of its area and 27%
affected 27% of the municipalityand consequently65% ofthe populationsuffered.
of its populationwas displaced. Orocó and SantaMaxia da Boa Vista, althoughnot
projects (Annex G).
flooded,took in a considerablenumber of affectedpersonswbo were resettled inirrigation


irrigation projects

higation projects are located inthe municipalitiesof Glória, Rodelasand Cura@ in the
                                                                                   -
state ofBahia, and Petrolândia, Orocóand SantaMaria da Boa Vista in the state of
                                                                       -
Pernambuco. The size of the plots ranges from i.5 to 8 hectares, as describedin the
summary below.

Borda do Lago de Itaparica(ItaparicaLake Shore) Bahia: includesthe
                                                         -
rneasurhg 1.5to 6 hectares; it is divided intothree sub-areas:Gliiria, Rodeiasand
municipalitiesof Glóriaand Rodelas, with a totd area of 1745.5hectares and 547plots
x w a r a .

                                             6




Bngida SpecialProject: in the municipality of Orocó, with a total area of 1501.5
        -                                                                                  I
hectares, 429 plots measuring 1.5 to 6hectares, and sixagrovilas.
Pedra Branca SpecialProject: in the municipalityof Curaçá, with a total arca of 2466
              -
hectares, 706 plots measuring 1.5to 6 hectares, and 19ugroviias.

Caraíbas SpecialProject:in the municipalityof SarataMuia daBoa Vista. uirh a ro'd
          -
area of 5605.5 hectares, 1603plots measuring 1.5 to 6 hectares, and 47ugnntifas
ApolOnio SalIes SpecialProject: in the municipalityof Petrolândia, with a iota! areaof
                -
880 hectares, and 101 plots measuring 8 hectares. It is the only project where satlm live
on their own plots, not in ugrovrias.

Resettlement of Tux&Indianswascarried out by dividing the comumnity m o two goups,

familes).
one relocated to the municipalityof Ibotirama(94families) and the other to Rodeias (W


The Downstream Project isbeing prepared. Located in the municipalityof Gloria, it
covers an area of 1600hectares, divided into 580 plots (Annex3).
Problems with resettlementand with irrigation projects

The ItaparicaResettlementProject has not achievedthe more generalobjectivesof
promotingimproved living conditionsfor ailthose affectedand is not even followingthe
policies and regulationsof the financial agency,the IBRD - World Bank.

The gap between progress in the resettlementplan and the implementationof productive
infrastructurehas produced high social costs,suchas increased crime, idleness and
excessivealcohol consumptionin the agrovilas (EnvironmentalAspects of Projects CO-

Pedro Ribeiro Soares,PEN146, Brasíiia, 1994, based on conclusionsof studies made by
Fbmced by the World Bank - Lessonsfor the fúture, org. Alencar Soaresde Freitas and
the Werld Bank's OED),which also occurwith part of the Tuxá indigenouscommunity.

productivityachievedwere very low in the vanouscrops, andfar below those
Recent CODEVASFdata (December 1995 and August 1996)indimethat the Iwels of
progrmnmed and the averageof other irrigationschemesin the region (EVALUATION
REPORTONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEXNIRRIGATIONPRonzcTs UNDER
     RAJ'AMCA SYSTEM JAN JUNE 1996 CODEVASF/GEE3') ( h e x0.
                              -      -             -

                                              7


Thesedata reveai the existenceof natural limitationsto the formiationof soilsselectedfor
most ofthe irrigationprojects, showingthat resettlementswill ody be feasibleby
developinga suitabletechnologicalstandardthat facilitatesproduction factors, or else, in
some areas, by changingthe location selected for irrigation.

But, along with natural limitations, there are also technical and operational problems.

Some ofthe agrovilasthat have been constructed are deterioratingdue to the use of
inappropriatemateriais, as in the caseof Itaquatiara(municipalityofRodelas), Borda do
Lago    - Bahia.
The irrigationprojectsIn operationcontain significantproblemsjin their instailedirrigation

to produce some of the region'straditional crops; defectsin the i.nstallationof systemsthat
systems, such as:excessiveelectricaldemand for operation, which can make it infeasible
have caused rapid deteriorationof equipment;mistakesin preliminarytechnicalanalyses
which are causingdifficultiesin irrigatingthe entire prepared areia; signs of soil erosion
and salinizationthat show the unsustainabilityof the systemfrom an environmental
standpoint;low-quality materiaisused in inigation systems,resultingin a significant
reductionin their useful life.


work, which explainsthe "excessive"costs per resettled f d y : US%63,000,
There areimportantsigns ofmisuse of resourcesor ofthe diversion of allocationsto other
acknowledgedby CHESFand questioned by World Bank experts (Environmental
Aspectsof Projects Co-Financedby the World Bank
Soares de Freitas and Pedro Ribeiro Soares, IPEAI146,Brasíiia, 1994,based on
                                                       - Lessons  for the future, org. Alencar

conclusionsof studiesmade by the World Bank's OED).

Thus, the resettlement and irrigationprojects have not succeeded in restoring the social
and economicconditionsof production and reproductionfor most of the population
forced to leavethe more fertilelands ofthe São FranciscoValley. Part of the population
still lacksminimum conditionsfor agriculturalproduction, nearly ten years after
involuntary displacement. And some of thosewho are alreadyproducing are beginningto
see that the irrigationprojectswere poorly planned and executed, makingthem
economicallyand environmentallyunsustainable. Project executiondid not meet technical
specifications,the marerial used in imgationsystemsis oftenof ii3w quaiityand some units
alreadyneed immediaterepair.
                                             -
responsibifityfor the project'scurrentstate, by omission, by not adequately supervising
In view of the above, we believe that IBRD World Bank, as a financialinstitution, bears
and monitoringprogressin the implementationof resettlementsand irrigationsystems.
The World Bank is obviouslynot the only one responsible,sincethe Brazilian

IBWbearsanimportantshareoftheresponsibilityforhavingfinancedtheworkWithotit
Government,Eletrobrásand CHESF are borrowersaid executorsof the work. However,

of corîuxities invoimtaiifydisplacedby dams.
enswingthat borrowersand executors complywith policies for resettlementand treatnent

                                                8



 Complaintsto the World Bank



 leaders from different periods recall that an averageof at least three meetings per year
 -The well
   asconcerns ofthe involuntarily displaced population were submitted to the World Bank
           asto Brazilian Government agencies on various occasioris. Pólo Sindical
                                                  -
 were held withWorld Bankrepresentatives in Petrolândia and in other affected areas on
 problems related to resettlements and irrigation systems.

 Only a few of aii these meetings and contacts were recorded in documents, such as:
 Meeting with IBRB representatives in 1901, inPzttrolikdia, on the need for more
 reso:;xes and denouncingthe diversion of materials fiom resettlement works (Annex K).

 Washington to discuss ways in which the Bank might support the coinclusion of the
 InFebruary 1992,Pólo Sindical representatives met with World Bank officialsin
 impiementation of inigation systems (Annex L).

begins withthe following statement: Weherewithwish toinformyou about the current
Official letter 136/93dated November 18, 1993,from Pólo Sindical to the World Bank,
siluationof theItapancaresettlements,whichwe thinkishighlyulcaming. Wewould
also like to bringyour attenriontotheinternationalBankfor Reconrtnrctionand
Development`sreqonsibiliy towardthe settlerswhowere qfjecsedty the h.              The
document continues to narrate the process ofthe ItaparicaResettlement and the

delivery ofworks, the issue of high electricity costs, and technical defects in
difficulties encountered at that time in its implementation, such as:problems with delays in
implementation. IBRD replied on December 15 of the same year in a letter fiom the Chief
ofthe Environment and Agriculture OperationsDivision, Department I, statingthat the
specrficproblemsinchcatedin      c..)letterwere thesubject of broaddiscussion with
CHDFantiCODWASFduring our lutestsupervisionmission. TheBank isplanning a
mission inMarch i994tofollow upontheimplementationofagreeàactions. Despite
the hopes raised in IBRD's letters, nothing was actuallyresolved ( h i e x M).


President ofthe World, in which he stated:
In 1994, the Coordinator of the Pólo Sindica! sent a letter to Mr. LewisPreston, then

Ina lettersent recent4 io the WorldBank byfa, alerted iharyour institutionis
                                                    we
runningthe risk ofsupportingapolicy whichyouyoursevcnticize: r)rrough technical
planned do not correspondat all tominimumneed: the gstems h e serious technical
negligenceor other motives,the imgation Vstemsihazhave beenimpiementedor

,qms anddefectswhichmay soonmakeproihction infeasible...; the system `s efficiencyis
well below the acceptableeconomiclevei...;     c..);@HESF        sti%not resolvedthe basic
pe-repisizefcr operatingan imgution system, especia@in the sem:i-urìdregion:
aire@ salinized&e to the luck 05or innrfficnt, drainage;very kgh costs...cpccor&q?
daimge. In the Senator Nilo CoelhoProjeet (Petrolina,CODEVASY, mmy landsme

                                              9


toa technicalreport,(showing) "clearlythat theresettledfanner will not be able to
affordtopay by means of incomegenerated byagriculturalproduction on hisplot.        "
(TtaparicaConsortium,June 1993,pp. 3and 4); in theBorda doLagoprolects,gstems
are being implementedinwhichsprinklersare spaced I5 by 15;meters,whichis valid in
laboratorycona5tion.q bui notwithwindspeedsof 10metersper second or more.
Consequent&,up to50% of theareaisnotproperlyirrigated The coordinator


tmly asume itsresponsibilitytowardfamiliesaffectedby the &, and so that we do not
todrawyour attentiononce againtothiscynïculdisregard,so that the WorldBank can
conciudeshis letter by exhortingthe World Bank to act in favor of the project: Wewish

go hungry in thefuture, asvictimsof a mistakenpolicy thaitheBank itse!fpubldy
cord.znrz (Annlex N>.


attachescopies of documents dealing with requests made by the Pólo Sindical to CHESF
Official letter 13/95, dated January 24, 1995,fromthe Pólo Sindical to the World Bank,

projects, seekingin this way to avoid repeating the errors of the past (Anna O)
and CODEVASF to accelerate the conclusion of hydraulic systems and resettlement


Bank representativeswho are monitoringthe project. At the meeting, problems with
On September 24, 1996a meeting was held between the Pólo Sindical and two Worid


in the projects that hinder their productive process. The position ofthe Bank
resettlements and irrigation projects werediscussed, with emphasison ounanding issues

representatives,although favorable to the Pólo Sindical, showed that the financial

Minutes ofMeeting withWorld Bank, 9-24-96) (AnnexP).
institution does not pian to have greater involvementwithproject continuity (annex,

Official letter 1331`96fromthe Pólo Sindical to the World Bank, requesting IBRD suppon
settiementsand irrigation projects (Annex Q).
for a research program that seeksto findsolutionsto technolcigical problems related to


As noted above, in responseto requests and complaints, the World Bank, despite the
availabilityof many of its managers and experts, was unable to make CHESF implement
implementationand operation of imgation projects, uith the result that, to date, the
its resettlement guidelines, nor has it managed to adequately supervise and monitorthe
project remains unfinished and has serious operational probleins, which amountsto
neglrgence.

Demands to the World Bank Inspection Panel

Thus, in light of the situation and neghgenee described above,which matenally affect  OU

Directorsthat ar!investigationbe made into this matter, so thiat appropriate measurescan
interests, we ask the InspectionPanel to recommendto the World Bank'sExecutive

Bank, as a financial agency, to correct errors already made that have caused most of the
be taken to solve these problems. Furthermore, we expect the measures to be taken by the
resenled population to remain effectivelyunable to produce.

                                                 10



 new IBRI) loan to ensure the implementation of the measures listed below:
 In addition to the Bank's raisingthe issue with the Brazilian Govenment, we request a



 adjustment to the hydromechanical system and instauationof agricudturalresearch
 Implementation of drainage structures(macro and localized), soilrc!habiiitation,
 programsin all the irrigation projects, in orderto make production viable.
 Identification of alternativetypes of subsidiesfor the electricityused in the irrigation
 projects.


 hospitals, etc.) in the main centers of all projects.
 Construction of physical works and installation of facilities (Storage:Center, mini-


 Creation of special credit lines for operating costs, investments and .workingcapital.
 Instaíiation of meteorologicai stations to provide weather data that is needed for efficient
 irrigation management.

 Borda do Lago Project Pemambuco (Block 2): total reformulation of the project,
                          -
 includingthe transfer of agrovilas,redefinition and rehabilitation of (ag.ridtural plots,
 overhaul of the irrigation system.
 Icó-Mandantes Project, Borda do Lago Pernambuco (Block 3): guarantee that hydraulic
                                            -
 works will be conciuded and land tenure problems resolved.
Itacuniba Project - Pernambuco, DownstreamProject (Glória Bahia), Barra do Tarrachil
                                                                  -
Project (Chorrochó) and ItaquatiaraProject (Rodeias): complete implementationof
irrigationprojects that were never even started, to the detriment of a population of nearly
6,000 peopie.

CaraibasProject (Santa Maria da Boa Vista Pernambuco): 80% of ithe project is
                                                -
conchded but hindered from operating because the remaining 20% rc:mauis unfinished
jeopardizinga population of approximately i 1,000persons. We request that this project
be M y conchded.
Pedra Branca Project (Curuçá - Bahia):the project is fuily operationd, but without means
sectionfiom Euciides da Cunha to Trevo do ibó,and the constructioin of the section from
of marketing its production. We request the conclusion of the BR 116highway, inthe

Curaqato Barra do Tarrachil on the BR 110high-way.

Experimental projects (Manga de Baixo,Glória O1 and Rodelas 02): econoxnic
rehabilitation of projects.

Furthermore, we be!ieve an international financialand technical audit should be made of
the Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project. Tkefinancialaudit iis necessary du. to

                                            11



becausethe irrigationsystems arejeopardizing theviability of production.
suspicionof diversionof project resourcesto otherworks. A tiechnicalaudit is necessary



Panelisbrief, but we are ready to provideyou with any additionalinformationyou may
As requested in the World Bank's OperationalProcedures, ourrequest to the Inspection
require.


with its annexes,be made public. We take this oppomnity to informyou that we are
As we are an organizationof Brazilian civil society,we authorizeand ask that this request,

LnternationalAffairsof the BrazilianMinistry of Planning and f3udget, to CHESF, to
sendinga copy to the Worid BankResident Mission inBrasilia,to the Secretariatof
Eletrobrás,to theFederal Chamber ofDeputies, aswell asto the Federai Senate.
Our contact addressis:

Pólo Sindical do Submédio São Francisco
Rua Dantas Barreto, 139
Petroiândia, Pernambuco
Brazil

teyfax: (081) 851-1160


Bahia and Pernambuco(Brazil)

Area of the ItaparicaResettlementand Imga ion Project, March 12,1997
(signed)
Eraido José de Souza, General Coordinator

