Page  1
Page 1 of 2 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
       U.S.A. 
  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD  
 
IPN REQUEST RQ97/1 
  
         
 
         March 
19, 
1997 
 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
Dear  Sir: 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
- Brazil: Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan 2883-1-BR) 
 
 
The Inspection Panel (the “Panel”) received on March 12, 1997 a Request for Inspection (the 
“Request”) dated March 12, 1997 from a group of about 121 individuals and an organization called Pólo 
Sindical do Submédio São Francisco - representing people who live in the project area (the “Requesters”) 
who claim that they have been directly, materially and adversely affected by acts and omissions of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”).  The Request claims that the 
standards of living, health and economic-well being of people living in the project area have been directly 
and adversely affected as a result of construction of the Itaparica Hydroelectric dam—located on the São 
Francisco River, at the border of the Bahía and Pernambuco states—the faulty execution of the above-
referenced project, and the Bank’s omissions and failures in the preparation and implementation of the 
project.  Specifically they claim, inter alia, that after ten years of involuntary resettlement of the project 
area population  (a) only 35% of the project’s six irrigation systems have been completed, 34% are under 
construction and 31% are still in the design phase; (b) the Tuxá indigenous community has been resettled in 
the Municipality of Rodelas but are unable to grow crops, since the irrigation system promised is still under 
design; (c) several of the irrigation systems already constructed have serious operational and maintenance 
problems; (d) the delays in the installation and commissioning of the irrigation projects have contributed to 
an increase of violence in the resettled communities, to alcoholism and family breakdown; (e) there is an 
evident deterioration—because of the poor quality of the materials utilized in construction—of some of the 
project’s 110 agricultural settlements (Agrovilas) which include health and education infrastructure; and (f) 
in general, a significant proportion of the about 40,000 beneficiaries (six thousand families) are in worse 
social and economic conditions than before the construction of the Itaparica dam.  The Requesters claim to 
be harmed as a result of alleged violations of various provisions of Bank policies and procedures set forth, 
inter alia, in the following: 
 
• 
Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects (OD 4.00 - Annex B)  
• 
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01) 
• 
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) 
• 
Indigenous Peoples  (OD 4.20) 
• 
Supervision (OD 13.05) 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel’s Operating Procedures (the “Operating 
Procedures”),  I am notifying you that I have on March 19, 1997, which is also the date of the dispatch of 
this notice, registered the Request in the Inspection Panel Register. 
 
All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will be sent to             Mr. 
Eraldo José de Souza at the address listed below. 
  
Page  2
Page 2 of 2 
Notice of Registration                                                                       
March 19, 1997 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of Bank Resolution No. 93-10 and paragraph 18(d) of the Operating 
Procedures, Bank Management is hereby notified that it must provide the Panel no later than April 17, 1997 
with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the relevant policies and procedures 
in the implementation of the above-referenced project. The essential criteria for the response to the Request 
are set out in paragraph 33 of the Operating Procedures. 
 
The Request has been assigned  IPN Request Number RQ97/1. 
 
  
Sincerely 
yours, 
 
 
  
 
Richard E. Bissell 
  
Chairman 
 
 
  
 
TO: 
Mr. Eraldo José de Souza 
 Coordenardor 
Geral 
 
Pólo Sindical do Submédio São Francisco 
 
Rua Dantas Barreto, 139  
Petrolândia, Pernambuco 
Brazil  
 
 
TO: 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn  
 
 
 
 President 
 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
Room 
E-1227      
 
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
 
 
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
