                             MANAGEMENTRESPONSETO

                  REQUEST FOR INSPECTIONPANEL REVIEW OF

           ITAPARICA RESETTLEMENTAND IRRIGATIONPROJECï

                                             LOAN 2883-BR




Inspection Panel Review of the Itaparica Resettlement and Irrigation Project ("thc Rcqucst') filed
        The Management and Staffof the responsibleDepartment have reviewed the Request for
by the Pólo :Sin&caìdos Trabalhadores Rurais do SubmédioSão Francisco on hlu& i 9. i997
Request is ineligiblefor considerationbecause more than95% of the Loan Proceeds had bcen
Under the Board Resolutionestablishingthe InspectionPanel (Resolution 93-10, 9.'LC!Y3) thrs
disbursed as of the datethe Request was received. However, in the interest of trsnswnc'.. the
followingdetailed response has been prepared.



                                              Table of Contents



EXECUTTVE SUMMARY...............................................................................               ...........1
I. INTRODUCTION .................................             ..........................................       ...........1
11. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND BANK SUPERVISION........                                                       . . . . . . . . . .6
111. MANAGEMENT RESPONSES TO INSPECTION REQUEST..................                                            ...........       11
IV.ACTION PLAN ............................................................... ..................................... 21
                                                                                  I

ANNEX B.~
ANWEX A: IW OF~ITAPARICA REGION                                                                             ..........       .23
                         STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS....................................
                                ~                N             T                                             .......... .24
ANNEX C: SUPERVISION MISSIONS ...................................................................... 27

                  Abbreviations Used in this Document

     CHESI:          SãoFrancisco HydroelectricPower Company

     CODEVASF        SãoFrancisco Valley Development Commission

     ELETROBRAS      BrazilianElectrical Power Holding Corporation

     FUNAJ           National Indian Foundation

     FUNDAJ          JoaquimNabuco Foundation
L    GOB             Governmentof Brazil

     IICA            InteramericanInstitutefor Agricultural Cooperation
     IP              Inspection Panel

     MME             Ministryof Mines and Energy
     O&M             Operationand Maintenance

     OD              Operational Directive

     OMS             OperationalManual Statement

     S A R           S t aAppraisalReport

     \MI-            MaintenancePayment

     WUA              Water Users Association

                                             ExecutiveSummary

         The ïtaparica Resettlement and Imgation Project is a stand-alone resettlementproject
designed entirely for the benefit of the population af&ed by the construction ofthe Itaparica dam
and reservoir. Construction ofthe dam, which was not financed by the Bank, began in 1979. it

Brazil. Compietion ofthe dam to bringadditional power on line was considered atop priorityby
was needed to provide an additional sourceof power for the rapidly growing Northeastregion of
the Government and regional leaders. A plan for resettlingthe 8,1O0 families to be dislocatedby
the reservoir had not been considered in depth during the design and construction of the dam. As a
consequence, Bank staf, in the mid 1980s,in the context of a dialoguewith the power sector,

dialogue, the Government of Brazil requested financing for the Itaparica Resettlement Project in
strongly advised that adequate provision be made for the affected people. in response to this

1986, some seven years after the construction had begun and barely two years before flooding of
the reservoir was to take place.

         The urban and rural housing and other infrastructurewas completed in a timely fashion

the completion of irrigation infrastructure for the 5,800 farming families affected by the dam.The
and the affected population was successfullyresettled. The mainproblem in the Project has been

and five major irrigation subprojects encompassing about 4,500 imgated plots. The Bank's
scope of the agreed project financed by the Bank is limited to rural housing, urban mfiamucture

accountability should not be extended to non-Bank-financed imgation subprojects encompassing
some 1,300plots. As was recognized at appraisal, the project involved high risk, given the
relatively scanty dormation available on soil conditions in the region, the technological challenges

homes. The Borrower's commitment to the project was not strong at the outset and fluctuated
imposed by terrain and soils, and the socialproblems involved in dislocating people from their

throughout implementation. The project has executed during a tumultuous period of Brazil's
recent history, when galloping inflation, political change and shifting priorities took their toll on
execution. Lack of cooperation among different agencies and the politicization of resettlement
caused additional problems.

         As a consequenceof these factors, long delays and cost overruns affected implementation.
Current program costs are estimated at more than double the o r i g d estimates and approximately
3,560 of the 5,800 farming families affected by the dam are still awaiting completion of imgation
on their lots. Nevertheless, duringthe time that these families have been waiting, they have been
adequately housed and have received regular maintenance payments. Also,many impoverished
and landless farmers, accounting for 60% of the rural families, acquired major assets (housing and
imgated land) through the project.


problems asthey arose and have taken many extraordinary measures to resolve them. There were
         Throughout the life of the project, the record showsthat Bank staffhave sought to identify
regular supervision missions conducted by qualified Bank staffand consultants. These include
serving as mediator between agencies and groups, suspending disbursements because of
inadequate provision of counterpart funds, approving $100 million in suppleriientai funds for the
loan, and temporarily raising the disbursement rate from 28%to 100%during most of 1992. The

supervision, and many of its actions were taken out of concern for the population and were
Bank has maintained close contact with representatives of the affected population during project


staffthat itsmainmotivationistomaintaintheBank's involvementintheProject. Whilethe
supported by their representatives. In fact, the NGO that presented the Requesthas mformed Bank




                                                    1

L
     the Bank'sfailuresto follow itspolicies.
     cunent situationis farfrom ideal, the shortcomingsto which the Requestpoints do not arise fim



     and, inNovember 1996,requesteda fourth extensionofthe project throughthe end of 1997.
             "he Government of Brazil has indicatedits Commitmentto meet the project objectives,


     extensionwas to permit the disbursementof less thanUS$6 million, primarily for training directed
     Sincefiiridsunder the loan for imgation infrastnictureare now exhausted,the purpose of the

     completed imgation systems. The Bank and the Borrower have agreed on a set of benchmarksfor
     at suppo:rtingthe establishmentof water user associationsVAS)operate and mauitainthe
                                                                        to

     1997that include major advances inthe completionof civilworks, completionof rmsed
     engineeringdesigns where necessary, land titling, and formation of WAS. in addition, ther
     Government established an InterministerialCommitteein January 1997withthe ~ b j e c t of~
     reviewingthe program and making recommendationsfor acceleratingits completton Tbe
     that the Bank continuesupervisionof the project through December 1999,two y w s after the
     recommcmdations are expected in the near future. in the meanwhile,the Government has requested
     present loan closing date. Inthejudgment of Bank staff,given the government's contrnucù
     commitmentto the overall Itaparica Program in generaland the Bank-financedprojcct in particular
     solutionscan be found for the remaining mrai familiesby mid-1999.
     and the provision of additional financingamountingto about US$lO0 million, sausfactoq

L




L


                                                       11

                                            I. INTRODUCTION

Background

1,
of US$132 niillion equivalent. A supplementalmount of US$l O0million equivalentwas
         The Itaparica Resettlementand Imgation Project was approved in 1987for a loan amount
approved in 1990. Of the aggregate loan of Us232 millionequivalent, $226.143 million, or

objective of the project is stated as follows:
97.5%,had been disbursed as of March 12, 1997,the registration dateof the Request.' The main


         Theproject aims at the resettlementof some 2,800urbanand 5,300ruralfamilies
         (includingthe TuxáAmerindiancommunities)displacedby the Itaparica reservoiron the
         São FranciscoRiver. Inparticular, theproject seeks to restore,and if possible, improve
         the incomesana' living standards of the involuntarilyresettledruralpopulation.

-.
7
and which went intooperation in 1988. The dam was financedand built by the Brazilian Electrical
         The resett!mext project is linked to the Itaparica dam whch began construction in i979

Power Sector Holding Company, ELETROBRAS MrithoutWorld Bank involvement in the design
and construction phases. During 1986, the Government of Brazil (GOB) requested financing to
support the rehabilitationand financial restructuring of the power sector in Brazil. Preparationof
this loan revealed a need to strengthenthe sector's capacity to iden*        and mitigate potential
environmentalproblems. Among the specificneeds identified was the need for a comprehensive
resettlement pian for the people affected by the then nearly complete Itaparica dam.2

3.
(GOB) (Loan No. 2720-BR). Although this loan did not contributeto the ñnancing of the
         in Jurie 1986,the Bank approved a US$500million loanto the Government of Brazil

Itaparica dam3, the Bank and the Borrower agreedthat greater attentionshould be paid to the
resettlement needs of the population affectedby the Itaparica Dam. Accordingly,a clause in the
Povíer Sector ProjectAgreement (Sec.2.03) stipulatesthat

         (a) . . ELETROBRAS shallprepare andjitmish to the Bank an actionplan, satisfactory
                 .
         to the Bank (theItapanca ResettlementPlan) containing specific measures to resettle the
         human communities to be afected by the Itapanca HydroelectricProject; (6)
         ELETROBRASshall cause CHESFto carry out the Itapanca ResettlementPlan . . . in a
         manner SahSf¿CtO?yto the Bank. .         . <'


4        Subsequently,ELETROBRAS requested separate Bank financmg for the Itapanca
Resettlement F'lan Under the Itapanca Loan Agreement, the Borrower, ELETROBRAS, onlent


1  The ori@nalloan amount of US$132 million equivalent was increased in 1990by US$lOO million
      equivalent,to covercosí overruns under an amendingagreement. From the legal and operational
      standpoints,the origmal and supplementalloans constitute one single loan. There isone

      There is a singledosing date.
      amortizationschedulewith hvo uanches; the project financed by the two uanches is the same.

z ELETR0BU.S and CIiESF adopted a comprehensiveProgram to meet the needs of all 8,100 families
      affectedby the Dam.The Project appraised by the Bank aiid described in the Loan Agreement is
      narrower in scopeas explained below. This paper will maintain a disunction betweenthe
      comprehensiveProgrumand the Bank-financedProjectwhich is narrower in scope.
  '4s in other sector loans, this loan did not disburse against specfic expendituresbut rather against
      general imports. No equipment, works or servicesdirectly used in the construction of Itaparicawas
      procxred with the proceeds of this loan.
                                                        I

L     the prmreds of the Loanto its subsidiary, CHESF,the regional power authority, which
      implemented the project. It was further agreed that

                wheneverthere is reasonable cause to believe that thefinds available to CHESF will be
                inadequateto meet the estimatedexpendituresrequiredfor carryrngout the Project,[the
                .Borrowerwill]make arrangementspromptly toprovide or cause CHESFto beprovided
                withsuchfinds as are needed to meet suchexpenditures.

     .5.
      these, about 2,800 families were resettled in urban areas that were rebuilt under the Program. The
                `TheItaparica damaffected altogetherabout 8,lO0 families, or about 40,000 people. Of
      remaininig 5,300 families were resettled in about 110agrovilas, or rural villages, built closeto
      agriculturalsubprojectswith imgation facilities. An additional 500firming Eamilies requested

      irrigated plots. The irrigation works were built under two different financial arrangements: five
      relocation to an urban areabut wished to continue farming, creating a total demand for 5,800

      irrigation subprojects encompassing some 4,500 imgated plots were c o h c e d by the Bank and
      ELETROBRAS; and about 1,300more imgated plots were designed and developed without Bank
      íiMIlC*,.

      6.
      World Bank is broader in scope thanthe Itaparica Resettlement Project financed by the Bank. The
               `Theoverall Itaparica Resettlement Program designed by CHESFwithassistance from the

      Bank-finmced Project consists ofthree components, namely,

                !(a)   of some4,500 plots4;(2) agricultural production and social support; (3)rural
                       RuralResettlement, consisting of (1) fivemajor imgation subprojectsconsisting
                       housing (5,300 houses); (4)water supply; (5)a road system; (6) a primary power
                       education, health and social services;
                       supply systemto servethe agricultural and domestic requirements; and (7)


                I@)    Urban Resettlement, consisting of relocation of four towns includmg (1)
                       construction of urban uifrastnicture; (2) provision of serviced residential plots,
                       building materials and construction of new housing; (3) public builriuigs for
                       health, education, post offices and telecommunications, police services, cemeteries,
                       etc.; (4)provision of serviced plots for commercial use; (5) provision of
                       road system; (7)an electric power system for urban settlements;and (8) water
                       community infrastnicture such as replacement churches, public squares, etc. (6)a

                       supply and sewerage;

               i(c)    Fisheries Research.


      mentioned above.
      7.       IDuringpreparation, CHEW presented detailed plans accommodatingthe 1,300 Edmlies
                         'The   Bank did not agree to financethese subprojectsbecause, in most cases,

      4 The 4,500 plots were accommodatedin two "LakesideSubprojects" Borda de Lago,Bahia; Borda de
                                                                               -
            Lago, Penambuco ;and three"SpecialProjects" BnBda; Caraibas, and Pedra Branca (see
                               -                               --                                       -
            Anriexes A and B).

L     5 Those riot financedby the Bank include the ApolônioSales,W g a de Baixo, Brejinho,Jeremoab,
            Exra doTarrachil subprojects(see Annex B). In most cases,Lbese subprojectsinvolved technical
            Renmw, Canafistuia, itacuruba,lnajá (Twij, Jusante, Rodel= (Tuxá),btirama CrWCa), and
            app:roachesthat Bank expens regarded as experimental and untried. For example,the Itacuruba
            challengingand seemed more complex and excessively needful of management attention. The
            subixcjectwas an integrated hog-fishduck production schemethat was techndogxally quite
            Borrower exercised its right not to accept the Bank's advice in t.!ese cases. These subprojectswere
            desieed for a total of some 1,268 families,leaving a total of some4,541 familiesin subprojects
                                                           2

they did not meet feasibiiitycritena,eitherbecause of soil conditionsin the sites identifiedor
because of the untriednature of thetechnology involved. These 1,300familiesinclude the T&

policies at the time would not allowthe Bank to providedirectfinancingforindigenousgroups.
indigenousgroup which was not included in the Bank-financed package for another reason: GOB
The Borrower decidedto implementthese subprojectsusing its own funds. The relevant policy in
effectatthe time (OMS 2.34 of Februq 1982)stipulatesthat the Bank will assist projects "oniy
when satisfied that the Borrower or relevantgovernmentagency supportsand can implement
measuresthat wiil effectivelysafeguardthe integrity and well-being oftribal people" (para 5).
Thereforethe Bank included language in the SARand Project Agreement, under which CHESF
agreed to formulateand implement a special plan to assist the T ~ x á . ~

8.       The itaparica Resettlement Project was the Bank's first stand-aloneresettlement project.

Northeastem region had createdhigh demand for electricitywith resulting power rationing and
Launching the hydropower dam was a high priority since rapid urban and industnal growth in the

consequent economic losses estimated at U S 2 billion in i987 alone. The hgh pnonty placed by
t!!e
the resettlement project between high quality planning and speed of execution. In the final
     Bcncwe:ron floodingthe reservoir su that power generation could begin created a tradeoffin

analysis, the Bank decided it could better help provide assistanceto the resettlerpopulation if it
became a pa.rber along with ELETROBRAS and the GOB. The project as a whole was
dislocated by the inundationof Itaparica, but to raise the standards of living of a substantial
conceived as a rural developmentproject designed not only to restorethe livelihoodof families

segment of the resettled population.




9.
rccogriized in the StaffAppraisal Report (SAR)as follows:
         Thert: nas a risk in the Bank's entering at this stage in the resettlementproject that was


         Resettlement as a result of manmade changes in the environment is always a dipcult
         task Risks are Increased due to the hght hmef-amein which the resettlement must be
         carried cut because of IVortheastpower shortages, the needfor efTecnve cooperanon
         among a number of public agencies, ana'complex social and technical issues involved In
         the establishment of newiy Irrigated agriculiural areas.



      implemeritation of these subprojects.
      cofinanced 5y the Bank and ELETROBRAS The Bani cannot legJ!y be held accountable for the

6   Such planning,under the neme "IndigenousPeoples Development Plan,"would be req~redunder OD
      4.20 "IndigenousPeoples" adopted in 1990.
                                                  3

L    1O.      Due to the timing of the Bank's entry intothe project, it wasnot possible to planthe
     acknowledgedatthe time of appraisal,'but the Bank recognizedthat the human need was great,
     resettlernent simultaneouslywiththe hydropower damas Bankpolicy prescribes. Thiswas

     virtually all the principles found in OMS 2.33 were present in the designof the Itaparica
     especiallyinview of the relative lack of resettlement planning done up to that date. Nevertheless,

     determination of the needs of the resettlers, provision of necessary services such as training and
     Resettlement Project including participation inthe design and willing consent by the resettlers,

     health, tampensation for lost assets, etc.

     ParticipationbyBeneficiaries

     11.      Shortly after construction began on the Itaparica Dam, a confederation of rural labor
     unionsin the municipalities to be affëcted was formed under the name Pólo Sindical dos
     Trabalhadores Rurais do Submédio São Francisco. This group sought to represent the interests of
     the rural population in the region affected by the Dam and Reservoir and it held a number of
     meetings with CHESFmanagement and organized demonstrations.The most dramatic of these

     site. Alter the World Bank entered the discussion in 1986Pólo Sindical looked to the Bank as a
     occurred in December 1986when 2,000 potential resettlers occupied the Itaparica construction


     signed on December 6, 1986, ELETROBRAS,CHESF, the Ministry of Mines and Energy and
     sometime ally, sometime mediator in its disagreements with the government. In an agreement

     representatives of Pólo Sindical agreed on a series of parameters concerning resettlement of rural
     families, including the following:
L             0     defïnxtionof rural producers eligible for resettlement benefits;
              0     determination of the size of the imgated plot from 1.5 to 6 ha per family to be
                    provided to rural producers, considering their landoming status, amount of land
                    owned and the family workforce available;
              0     provision of one salary per family equal to at least 2.5 minimum salariespayable by
                    one of the construction firms through the first harvest.'

     12.
     agricultural hamlets (or agrovilas).
              Agreement was also reached on the size and type of housing provided in some 110


     13.      Shortiyafter the agreement was reached, contractors began buildmg the agrovilas, each of
     which Typically consisted of some 40-60 individual homes of 45-65m2,each with electrical power,

     also equipped mith a 500 liter water storage tank.In addition to some 5,322 homes', the
     running water, water closet and septic tank. Later, after negotiation with CHESF, each home was
     contractors also built 74 schools and 16health posts. In brief, the new housing for the resettlers

     flooded in March 1988. In the original project design, tie productive infrastructure
     was ready very quicklyand the population was successfully relocated as the reservoir began to be
                                                                                               w2s   expected
     to be completed by the end of 1988. It was recognized that there would be a hiatus between
     relocation of the rural families and completion of the irrigatiun works, the reason for which the
     CHESFíPÓlo Sindical agreement included a maintenance payment                    equivalent to 2.5
     minimum salaries per month. However, there were major dzlays in completion of the productive
     infrastructure in the five major reseidement areas,each linked to one imgation subproject

     ? Thiscompensationwou!d laterbe transformed into an entitlement,payableby CHESF, with no work
          requirement at the insistenceof the Pólo Sindical and the basis for calculatingthe size of the benefit
          would change several times over the life of the project.
     8The nimber of homes in agrovilas for rural dwellersis sniallerthanthe nurnkr of agncuiturallots
          betause some of the farm familiessettied in urbanareas.
                                                          4

mentioned above, withthe resultthat a substantialsegment of the resettiedpopulation has not had
accessto cultivableland and has been obligedto subsiston the VMT for asmuch as eight years
afterthe move.


the agreementwith the affected rural dwellers, t e m that some observersregard as excessively
14.      With hindsight, it is possibleto discernthat someof the problems arosefrom the terms of


unusually highfor projects of thissort (nearly US$60,000). The high cost of the project
costly. Even using the initial cost estimate for the project, the cost per relocated fämily was
exacerbatedthe shortageof counterpartfundingthat was to plague the project throughout its life.
It is possible:that in a differentpolitical environment,without the time pressure, a solutioncould
have been found that would have been technologicallysimpler, lower in cost and more satisfactory
to the displaced population.

Current Situation of the Resettled Families

15.      The resettlement of 2,800 urban familieswas carried out smoothlyand without major

considerably higher qualitythanthe urban settlementsthey replaced and the quality of life of the
difficulties. The housing and associated uifrastructureconstructed by CHESFare of

settlementshas been fullyrestored to pre-relocationlevels by any reasonablemeasure.
resettled families seemsto have improved significantly. Economic and social life in these


16.      The jpicture in the rural settlements(agrovilas)built to accommodatesome 5,300

productive infhstructure needed to allowthe familiesto restoretheir agriculturalproduction is not
agricultural familiesis mixed. While good quality housing and uifrastnictureare in place, the

complete in nmy communities At present, about 2,239 families have plots with working
imgation systems.




                                                   5

L                         11. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONAND BANKSUPERVISION

     Implementation Problems

     17.
     difficulties:financial, technical and socidinstitutional. Onthe financial side, consideredto be the
              Throughoutimplementation,the project hasbeen affected by threemainsources of

     allocation of counterpartfunding by the Borrower and from cost overruns. On the technical side,
     major element hindering project implementation,the project has suffered from insufficient timely

     there hive been difficulties related to the technical design of some of the irrigation perimeters, and
     unforeseen engineering problems with the main conveyance systemsof water to the imgation sites.

     the best available patches of land in the vicinity of the reservoir, the entire area is withinthe
     There have also been social and institutionalproblems. While the ruralfamilies were resettled on

     droughtpolygon of Northeastern Brazil wihn which ramfed agriculture has always been
     extremelyrisky. Except where these sites were close to the reservoir or river, until the imgation
     s33%lizc
     subprojects (Caraíbas, Pedra Branca and Brigida, See Map, Annex A). There were additional
              were conpleted, there was e general lack of employment, especially in the three western

     problem with adjustment to the new location, problems with the delivery of social services,
     transport, etc.

     18.
     Brazil's recent economic and political histoq. While planning and construction of the dam took
             The Itaparica Resettlement Project was implemented during a tumultuouspenod of

     place rnainly during the period of military rule, the resettlement Program was planned and
     implemented after the restoration of democratic presidential elections. In the pend following
     military government, there was a substantial resurgence of popular movements and greatlyraised

     given greater weight in decision-making.. There was great public sympathy for the plight of the
     expectations. Public officials felt that demands from parties affectedby public works had to be


     were c'losd,the poliúcal pressure favoring the resettlement Program decreased considerabl!. and
     families who would be resettled, but after the crisis passed, and the floodgates of the Itapanca dam

     other rancem took precedence.

     Financial Problems

     19.     The macroeconomic situation was alsounstable. During the late 80s and early 90s, Brazil
     underwent some of the highest levels of infiation in its history. In addition,the budget allocation
     were actually only released for capital projects late in the year, once as late as Nosember. The
     process was in turmoil. Budgets were drawn up and approved early in the fiscal year,but funds

     Itaparica Resettlement Project competed for funds with the Xingo Hydropower project, another
     high ~i~iorpower project on the SãoFrancisco River, downstream from Itaparica. in addition to
     competition from Xingó, foreign debt serviceand other obligations, ELETROBRAS experienced
                   i v


     to make remittancesto their parent company. As a consequence,ELETROBRAS was chronically
     fluctuations in its income from its subsidiaq power companies whch, on several occasionstfailed

     delayed in its fùndmg of the project (Table 1) a situation that eventually led to a tempor-
     suspension of disbursements on the project.

                                                  Table 1

                                        '  Itaparica: Annual
                                          Disbursement Totals




                                     1994             14,473317.43
                                     1995             (1-281.848 13
                                     1996             13,789.083.86
                                     1997              1,275,221.98
                          LTotal                      226,142,546.91


20.

By June 1989, the estimated cost had nsen to an estimated US$614 million. As of April 1997,the
been due to various factors. Totalproject costswere estimated at appraisal at US304miUion.
         Project costs have been much higher thananticipated at appraisal. The increases have


total estimated cost of the Itaparica Resettlement Project had risen to about US774 million. The
factors contributing to this cost increase are complex and it is difficultto weigh the importance of
each. The first factor contributingto the cost overrun seems to be an error that occurred at
appraisal when the cruzado/uS$ exchange rate (Brazilian cruzados into US dollars)was not
updated resulting in the underestimation of the dollar costs. The secondmajor factorwas the
shortage of counterpart funds, especially during 1989and 1991which resulted in reduction in the
rate of work .and,in some cases, the demobilization of contractors. Technical factors also ledto
cost increases, mainlythe need to revise constructiondesigns as more detailed topographical and
soil data became available during project implementati~n.~Finally, wavering Borrower
commitment and COnflictamong differentgovernmental agencies also contributedto costiydelays.

TechnicalProblems

21.      Discussions between CHESF and rural resettlers took place during I984 and 1985 and
some 12 different sites were discussed in terms of their proximity to the resettlers' homes, transport
and other characteristics. Most of these sites were close to the future reservoir. However, when
the Bank and CHESFbegan discussions of site selection in 1987,more stringent soil requirements

of widely respected experts, recmited in Brazil and internationally, in an attempt to find the best
were set in view of the Bank's feasibility criteria". The Bank brought to the project areaa number
sites to locatethe imgation areas. As a result, three of the five major imgation schemes were
located in an upstream area,the largest of which is actually well beyond the reservoir's
westemmost tip (see Map, Annex A), and therefore several hundred kmfrom the on@                 riverside
locations. Thesesites were identifiedonthe basis of soli surveys conducted pnorto project
preparation anid with the assistance of experts from the US Bureau of Reclamation and from the


9At project sump, there were aenai photos, saîellite images and topographical maps at 1:25,000scale,
      inadequatt: foi the engineering design of the conveyancs canais and irrigated plots. The notes to the
      Table in Amex B also provide some indications of how the cost of the project escalatedduring
      implemenntion.
                                                      7
                                                                                                             '

     Extension Serviceof Israel." They required substantialliftingofwater and water transport over
     long distances. The selection of sprinklertechnology with its requirement of pressurized pipes,
     also raised the cost and complexity of implementation.

     22.

     progressed, engineers developeda new solutionfor canyrngwater to the Caraíbas site, largest of
     imgaticonperimeters required adjusiment, leadingto additional delays and higher costs. As work
              During project implementation, as samplinggaps were filled in,some of the planned


     the western sites, providing imgation plots for some 1,400families. The fluctuationinproject
     fínancesreferred to above also led to partial demobilization or slowdownsby the contractors
     carrying out design and constructionwork in several locations.

     SociaUInstitutionalProblems

     23.      Some of the problems encountered by the Itaparica Resettlement Project have been
     institutional in nature. Among these can be cited occasional poor communication between
     ELETROBRAS and its subsidiary CHESF, responsible for executing the imgation works. This
     situation reached a head in 1990when ELETROBRASestablished a special oversight group that
     subjected CHESF's operations to closer physical and financial scrutiny. Another institutional

     the Government of Brazil (GOB)is the guarantor of the Loan and of the performance of
     difficultyarose in the relationship between the Ministry of Finance and ELETROBRAS. Although

     ELETROBRAS.,during the early years of the project, the Ministry of Finance was extremely
L    reluctant to release budgetary funds for the implementation of the project to d    e up for shortfalls
     in EL,ETROBRAS' allocations. CHESFhas alsohad strained relations with FUNAI,the National
     for the Tuxá more difficult. Under FUNAI's tutelage, the Tuxá have been suspicious of CHESF's
     indigenous Foundation. In CHESF's view, FUNAl's stance has made reaching a satisfactory plan

     proposed solutions, demandmg the right to contract their own expert consultants, and rejecting
     several proposed solutions. FUNAI itself made a proposal forthe Ibotirama Tuxá with a cost out
     of proportion to the imgation systems provided for the other resettlers in the system, whch has not
     been accepted by CHESF.

     24.      There have also been occasional breakdowns in communicationbetween CHESF and Polo

     leadership shifiedwith some frequency and sometimes resorted to public confrontation when
     Sinciicai. While Pólo Sindxcal can claim to be the legitimate voice of most of the resettlers, its

     ~ i t the Pólo Sindicalleadership and has not always disclosed information fully. Finally, there
     negotiation mighthave achieved its goals. CHESF, on its side, has frequently postponed meetings
           h
     were problems between CHESF and the FundaçãoJoaquim Nabuco (FUNDAJ),a research
     to CHESF. CHESF, on its side, suspended payments to FUNDAJ for a long period. in nearly all
     institution contracted to carry out project monitoring,which often adopted an adversaria1 approach
     these instances,the Bank has taken on the role of mdator between institutions, a role it has
     carried out with mixed success.




  -
     10 Someof the seas initially se!ected by CHESFfor resettlement had soilswhich were iriadequateto
          bve been the first choice on the cntenon ofproximity is made up of poor, shdlow, mainly sandy
          supprt irrigated agriculture. In fact, must of area rrìediately mmnd the reservoir
                                                                  -                         - which would

          soils.unsuitable for imgation.
       WhileareasUnthimgable soilswere identified from existingsurvey data and spot checks, the actual

          proceeded.
          dimensionsof theseareas h d to be raised with more samplingasproject implementation

                                                          8

BankSupervision

25.

daily basis. From 1990onward, theproject was supervisedfiom headquarters. From August 1996
Recife,where meetings, sitevisits and discussionswithmanagertookplace on a weekiy or even
                 appraisalin 1987thro.ugh 1990,the                         for the project was resident in
                                                                CHESF

to date,a member ofthe Bank'sBrazil water team has been stationedin Brasilia allowing frequent
operationand maintenance of the imgation schemesaswell astrainingof the farmers. Throughout
opportunitiesfor contactwith CHESFand CODEVASF, the agency responsiblefor overseeing
the period of implementationthere was a normalnumber of supervisionmissionsin additiontothe
fiequent informalcontacts between thetask manager, CHESFand ELETROBRAS. Official

position onthe delaysin implementationand the lack of counterpartfunds. Althoughthe Brazilian
correspondencewiththe Borrower during the entire period shows that the Bank took a very strong

portfoliowas experiencingproblems acrossthe board, the Bank frequentlystressedthe human
factor in the             situation.12




                ExceptionalActions Taken by Bank during ItaparicaProject

                            Supplemental loan of US$lOO million in
                                 Suspension of Disbursements in 1990
          Raised financing percentage to 100%ofWorks for 12 months in 1992/93
                               ClosingDate of Loan Extended 4 Times

27.      The
had been m i e in the use of exchange rates and in view of the extremeneed of the resettled
                         of acost-overrunis unusual but was agreed to in view of the fact that errors

            An independent report filedon October 3, 1989concludedthat,

        a redesign of theproject ISneitherfeasible nor desirable,since almost all worùsare
         under construction or have been bid, and a redesignar this stage would not only likely



12For example, in November 1988. the PortfolioManagerof the managing divisionwote to the

     the transiition period has been discussed at length in theInpast. . . .we are aware that the primary
     Borrower stating, . . the problem of preserving an adequate level of resettier satisfaction during

     the President of ELETROBRAS,stating, "We were sony to find that no progress u% made with
     social problem lies in the lack of useN work to do.         December 1943,the Division Chef wrote to

     respect to the solution of current problems and more significantly finding a permanent solutionto the
     delivery ofhealth and education              to the resettled population."
13It shouidbe noted that the approval of the supplemental loan by the Eank complied with its policy on
    the financingof cost overruns                Policy Note 3.12 of February 8, 1984) because the

    and it was still econsmicallyviable.
     Governmentwas unable to finance the additional costs, the project rsuidnot be reduced in scope,

                                                      9

L             raise costs,butfurtherdelay completionof theproject and increase the hardshipsof
              ruralfamilies.

     28.
     warnings to the Borrower afterwhich it exercised its legal remedy under the Loan Agreementby
              Laterin 1990,when counterpartfundinghad slowedto atrickle the Bankissued several



     implementationimproved marginally but many ofthe technical, financialand general
     presentationof at h g plan, disbursementswere resumed on January 3,i99
     suspendingdisbursementsasof October 5, 1990. After discussionswiththe Borrower and       Project

     macroeconomicproblems referred to abovepersisted. In March 1992,in view ofELETROBRAS'

     from 28%to 100%which was done through January 1993. As a result, 1992was the year of
     difficulties in providing counterpartfunds,the Bank agreedto increaseits financing of civil works
     greatest amount of disbursementover the life of the project (Table i). This made significant
     advancesin project works possible sothat in 1993,the first irrigationschemes (Borda de Lago
     Bahiaa d Borda de Lago Pernambucowitha total of 790 plots) became operational.
     (709 plots) also became operational. Finally,at the request of the Borrower and withthe support
     Subsequently, in February 1994the irrigation schemesin Brigida (431 plots), and Pedra Branca


     extensionwas granted for one year (through December 31, 1997)even though more than97% of
     of Pólo Sindical,the closing dateof the loan has been extended four times. The most recent
     the loan has been disbursed. This is unusual, but the request largelyreflectsthe concerns of the
     affectedpopulationwho have stated severaltimes in meetingsthat the Bank'sparticipation is
L    highlypositive fromtheir

     29.
     the project. There have been innumerablemissions, informaland formal discussionswith CHESF
              in summary,Bank supervisionofthe Itapanca Project was intensethroughout the life of

     completethe project as adequately and quickly aspossibie. Sincethe inceptionof its involvement,
     and ELETROBRASmanagement, and specialmeasurestaken aimedat assistingthe Borrower to

     the Bank's uppermost concernwas for the welfare of the resetilers who were obligedto move
     because of the inundationof the itaparica Reservoir. it is possiblethat had the Bank been involved
     place (OMS 2.33, 1980)would have led to better planning. However, successivereviews of the
     in the financing of the hydropower project, timelyapplicationof the resettlementpolicy then in
     project by different parties" have concludedthat there were no significantlapses in the Bank's
     supervision and oversight of the project under its guidelines and procedures as summarized.




     14Given the strong support by Pólo Sindicalfor the Bank's role in the project, the Request byPólo
          attempting to inducethe Borrower to request continued Bank involvement
          Sindicalto the Inspection Panel might seem paradoxid. In fact it is consistent with the goal of

     15Perhaps the most cornprehensiveof these was ``ItaparicaResettlement Review" by Syed S.
          October 1989.                                                                                   I
                                                        10

                  IiI. MANAGEMENTRESPONSESTOINSPECTIONREQUEST
30.
raisedinthe Requestto the InspectionPanel and ofthe
         Fist, it is importantto recognizethatBank Management is fullyaware of the issues
                                                                          that led to its hawig been
filed. The Bank enteredthe project withthe intentionof assistingthe Brazilianauthoritiesin to
developand implementa sound resettlementplan thereby mitigatingpoîentiaihardship, Bank
and have visitedthe resettlementsites and understandthe mistrationand disappomtmentof the
staff and managem& have met on many occasionswithrepresentativesof the affected population


goals have been and
farmers who are living on the VMT and unable to returnto a fullyproductive life The Bank's
                           are to achievethe originalgoals of the project of helping to m o r e the
affected population to full productivity. It is in this spirit that management responds to the
Request.

3
response by Bank Management.
         The followingsection reviews the principal issues raisedby the Request and prcscnts a


Complaint: Irrigation Works are Incomplete

32.
operatingirrigationsystemsat their disposal. However, the rnformationin the Requm IS not fully
         The:statementis factuallycorrect, in that many resettied farmfamilies still do not have

accurate. First, it shouldbe pointed out that the Request omits mention of the            whtch has

to the resettiers (see below for a detailed dscussion).
been paid faithfullysincethe inception of the resettlementand mitigatesserious mataiiilhardsiup


33.     Widh regardto construction itself, Table 2 shows the current (March 1997)daza on
operating irrigation systems and those under construction. Part of the dscrepanq
Request and
construmon and equipment acquisitionis well advanced, but work had to be suspcndd vrhen
                         data lies in the use of the term "design phase." In somc subprojects,  the

unexpected soil problems were encountered requiringsupplementalpedological snrdies These
studiesare time consuming and a source of mistrationto all concerned, but failure to            thcm
out could result in waste of resources and even greater fiustration in the future. A second
discrepancyarisesfrom the factthat Bank financingcovered only 5 imgation subprojects(see
paragraph 6(a), footnote4 and Annex B).I6 The remaining subprojectsmentioned u1theyreport and
in Annex B, Icovering some 1,300famhes, were not included in the project                   thc
meet the Bank's feasibility criteria. Given the Bank's late entry intothe project, n was not possible
                                                                                              did not

to demand that ail resettlement subprojectsmeet the basic feasibilitycriteria laid
Bank's experts.                                                                               the




16 Considenng all subprojects,including those not financed
     follows In Operation 39%. Under Construction 4 %, Design Phase 20% Contnbuting to this
                                                                the Bank,the smuxq           down as

     reasonsand entirely new schemes had toFUNAI
     situation ISthe factt h t someof the schemes financed without Bank support have failed fortechntca!
     the dúiïailties in negotiaúons           bedesigned (seeAnnex B) Another contnbuungfaaor are
     for the Ti& IndrgenousGroup                     and CHESF which delayedimpiernenting a solution

                                                     11

L                                      Table 2: Status of Irrigation Works

                         Statusof                 Pólo Sindical                 Bank-Financed
                   irrigation work1'                (Request)                    Subprojects




     34.
     (in Borda de Lago,Pernambuco and Caraíbas). Borda de Lago Pernambuco subproject is
              CHESF andthe Bank continueto fínancethe constructionofthreeimportant subprojects
     schetíuledfor June 1997, and about 40% of the Caraibas subproject is scheduledto begin operation
     before the end of 1997. All Bank-financed subprojectswill be completeby the end of 1998
     although Bank financing will only be availablethrough December 3i, 1997. In addition, CHESF

     remainingsubprojects (see Annex B).
     contmues to h c e studieswiththe objectiveof defïningsolutionsfor the implementationof the


     Complaint: Bank ResettlementGuidelineswere not Followed

L    35.
     1990have been followed in all major aspects, except for the timelypreparation of the resettlement
              As indicatedabove, Bank policy in place at the time of appraisal, and those adopted in
     plaritogether withthe underlying dam constmctionthat caused the resettlement.


     Production Because the IrrigationSystem is Still Under Design.
     Complaint: The Tuxá IndigenousCommunity was Resettled but is Unable to Resume

     36.
     Ciry of Rodelas and cultivating land with ditch irrigationon Viuva Island in the São Francisco
             ?he Tuxá Amerindian population consistedof about 2I1 familiesin 1987, living in the

     financing for the Tuxá imgation schemes. However, there are several clauses in the Loan and
     River that was inundated by the reservoir. As mentioned above, the GOB did not allow Bank

     Project agreements stipulating specificactionsaimed at providingsupport for this population. The

     operation." Although the Bank did not financethe Tuxá resettlementplan, the Bank closely
     SAR states that "Resettlementof the Tuxá Amerindian communitywould be treated as a separate


     beween the Bank, CHESF and FUNAI, withthe Bank frequentlyplayingmediator bemeen the
     supervisedthe developmentof plans to deal withthis group and there were frequent meetings

     -
       `Thisdata refers:o the proportion of lots with fully operational irrigation systemsout of a total of 5,809
          imgated lots of which 453 1 lots received financing from the Bank. "Fully operational"refers to lots
          with irrigauoninfrasuucturcinstalledand tested.
     18Construction has resumed on the large Caraibaswbproject with 1406 lots; full operation is scheduled
          for 1998. In Barreiras. Bloco 2, designed for 600 families already relocated in the area,sigmfkant
L         progress has already been made in the implementatbn of the imgauon infrmcnire inclubng the
          hydro-mechamcalequipmenr has been purchased and delivered to CHESF.However,the
          reservoir, pipeline. water intake and power sub-station all of which areconcluded;all the necessary
          inpiementationof the on-farm systemwas suspendedbecauseunexpected soil probl-a swere
          encountered. Soil expertswere brought in to help refomdate the design of the on-farm systen to
          accommodatepermanent crops. Constructionis scheduled to resume shortly and conclusion of the
          works is expectedby the eíìd of 1998.
     19"ne detailedengineering design for these works is undergoingadjustmentsand the works will be put up
          forbids during 1C9?.
                                                          12

this issue and it is mentioned in virtually every supervision and back-to-office report.
othertwo agencies. More thanhalf the correspondencebetweenthe Bank andthe Borrower raises


37.
Foundation (FUNAI) and cannot act independently without FUNAI's consent. Because of its
         Under Braziiian law, the Tuxáare under the Iegd tuteiage of the National Indian

the particip;ationof the communityand under the supervisionof FUNAI. Two opera-
special legal status, the Tuxáwere the objectof a special resettlementplan that was prepared with


fundamentals of what amounts to an Indigenous Peoples Development Planzoincluding housing,
agreements were signed between CHESFand FUNAIin 1986and 1987laying out the

infrastructure, production systems, and social support. Housing and community infrastnicîure
have been ñdly implemented, but productive infrastructure has stillnot been completed. The Tuxá
were included in the support payments made by CHESFto rural resettlers while they awaited
restoration of productive infrastructure. The mainreason for the delay is the inability of CHESF
and FUNAI to reach agreement on the location and specificationsof imgation systems for the
Tuxá

38.
resettled in it separate subdtvision of the rebuilt city ofNova Rodelas, while another faction of
         About the time of these operating agreements, the Tuxá community split: one faction was

some 1O0 families requested and was granted resettlement in the Municipality of ibotirama,some

for the Tuxá,and constructed housing for all the resettled families, completed in 1986in ibotirama
800 km upstream on the São Francisco River. In Ibotirama, CHESF secured an area of 2,082 ha

and i987 in Rodelas. It also installed a ditch imgation system (comparableto the system
previously
constructionir1that will utilize sprinklers. The total imgated area planned by CHESFwould reach a
                use on the Viúva Island)covering 1O0 ha. An additionai area of 100ha is under

total of 380 ;haincludmg the areas already installed and under construction. In May 1996, FUNAi
presented a proposal to CHESF entitled "TuxáLand Management" requiring investmentstotaiing

Tuxámoved to i'botirama. in September 1996,consideringthat the proposal presented by FUNAi
about US $37.5 million, or about $272,000 per family includmg the new families formed sincethe

was unreasonably costly in light of the average cost ofthe resettlement to date, CHESF madea
counter-proposal of a subproject costing about US$7 million, and is awaiting a response from

income they (derivefrom the land they have under irrigation.
FUNAI. in lhe meantime, the Tuxá families in Ibotirama are receiving the VMT in addition to the


39.

acquired. However, there was a protracted dispute between FUN& and CHESFconcerning the
land of some 4,000 ha about 15 lanaway from the town was selected by the communityand
         In "ova Rodelas, the Tuxá were re-settled in a separate section of the town and a parcel of

soil quality of the land selected. A new parcel of the same size has now been identified less than
CHESF after anexpropriation decree is obtained by FUNAI. CHESFhas proposed to installa
lkm from the town, withan estimated 690 ha of imgable land. The parcel would be acquired by

plm. entitled "`TuxáLand Management - Rodelas''wiil be drawn up and presented to CHESF for
spnnkler imgation system covering some 380 ha at this site. DuMgthe first semester of 1997,a

financing. in the neanwhle, the Tuxá families in Rodelas are receiving the VMT in addition to the
income they derive from rainfed agriculture.
40.

continuing to make efforts to reach a satisfactory conclusion. in the meantime, the Tuxá
institutional diificulties and distrust on the part of the indigenous population. The Bank is
         Unfortunately, the resettlement md rehabilitation of the Tuxá has been hampered by


population, while unable to'resumeimgated farming, is not undergoing finansia1hardship.


20An Indigenous Peopks Development Plan was not required in OMS 2.34 in eEect at the time of project
      appraisal
                                                     13

     Complaint: IrrigationSystemsin OperationSuffer From SeriousOperational and
     MaintenanceProblems:


     This issuehas not been raised at any of the numerous meetings between Bank Staff and Pólo
     41.     The Request does not specifythe extent or nature of the alleged operationalproblems.

     Sindirralduring supervisionmissions. As expected in any systems ofthis sizeand complexity,
     therehave beenstartupproblems in severalof the operatingirrigationperimetersincludmg

     during the testing phase before being handed over by the contractors. The Bankhas closely
     equipment maifunctians,leaks, etc. in general, such problems have been detected and corrected

     supervisedthe procurement of goods and services and has evidence that the equipmentprocured
     and iinsblledis of thehighest quality available in the world. Spot checks by Bank staffand other
     expeitshave not revealed any systematicpattern of defects or seriousoperationalproblems ansing
     out of the design, equipmentquality or installationof the imgation systems.

     42.

     the fimers to assumeresponsibility for the operation and maintenance.
     occasional vandalism resulting in damage to imgation equipment, ana (b)The
             The most seriousoperational problems of which the Bank and CHESF are aware are (a)
                                                                                  reluctanceon the part of
                                                                                     Request allegesthat
     the iinigationsystems in operation are running at low levels of efficiencyand consumeexcessive
     amounts of energy, although the benchmark levels mentioned in the statement do not correspond to
     known intemational standards.

     43.      There is, however, virtually universal recogrutionthat a well organized Water User
L    Association (WUA) is the most effectiveand lowestast way of managing demand and allocating
     water resources. Someof the problems referred to in the Request could be resolved by better
     management ofthe installedsystems. For example, the systems have been designed to operate "on

     Water Users Association could agree on timing of system use to minimize energy costs and
     demand"requiring continuousoperation of pumps and high energy cost. A properly organized

     incrmse efficiency. CHESF, CODEVASFand the Bank have placed a great deal of emphasison
     assumption of Operationand Maintenance (O&M) of the operatingsystems by WUAs. Although

     responsibility for O&M.
     Pólo Sindicalhas agreed in principleto encourageWAS,not a smgleN'UA has yet assumed

     Complaint: A Significant Portion of the Affected Families are in Worse Social and Economic
     Conditionthan Before the Constructionof the ItaparicaDam.

     44.
     will not have fulfilled its goals. A situation in which families without employment are living on the
              Until the productivecapacity of the displaced ruralfamilies is fully restored, the project

     WiTis inherentlyundesirable. Nevertheless,thefollowingconsiderationsare alsorelevanttothe
     assessment of the change in social and economic conditionssince resettlement took place.

                   Families that lost assets in excess of the value of the replacement housing and land
                   were compensated in cash for their loss; also families preferring not to move to
                   agrovilas and imgated plots were fully compensated in cash;

              *
L                  a new house of 45m2with runningwater and electrícil;, and an imgated plot of at
                   The 3,486 landless farriiing families (60%of total) living m the area gained accessto

                   least 1S hectares, assets that most of them probably could not have imagined owning

                   mean constructed area of rural dwellingsuas 5V m2of taipa (wattleand daub).
                   without this project. Baseline data collected before resettlement indicatethat the
                   Those familiesthat had homes largerttm45 m' were compensatedin cash for the
                   difiFerence in area althoughthe pality of the new houses was sripenor;


                                                        14

         0      Socialservices includingschools, health posts, and school buses, are availabletothe
               resettled mrai families;

               A maintenancepayment ongmally equalto about 2.5timesthe prevaiiing official
               minimumsala$*
               the resettlementsincethe inceptionofthe resettlement. Baselinedata collectedbefore
                                  has been paid by CHESFto all 5,800 farming families a f f e c t e d by

               the project began showedthat 55% of the affectedrural familieshad incomes below
               one minimumsalary, and 39.5%between one andtwo minimumsalanes per month,
               while only 5.5% had incomes higher than2 minimum salaries. Therefore,the VMT
               paid by CHESFsince 1988is higher thanthe baseline incomeof 94.5%of the
               population. Agricultural incomes fluctuated widely duringthe year, while the VMT
               was paid reliablythroughoutthe year;

               Many resettlers have been ableto restore their income based on aitemativeactivities
               includmg livestock raising, ramfed agriculture,wage labor, and mcroenterpnse

               percentage of resettled rural familieswith incomesgreaterthanthe VMT increased
               activities. The Joaquim Nabuco Foundationcoliected data showingthat the

               from 5 1%in 1989to 66% in 1994.22It should be recognized,however,that families
               resettled in the western areas,fartherfrom urban centers,have probably had fewer
               opportunitiesfor alternativeemploymentand business oppomirilties

45.
significantlyhigher thanprevious levels in a large majority of cases.
         Insilunma~).,while the VMT is a palliative, it is adequateto maintama level of      Iiwig




Alcoholism and Family Breakdown
Complaint: Delays in Completing Productive Infrastructure led to an Increase in Violence,

46.      There have been many expressionsof fiustrationby the resettled population over the lack

alcoholismand family breakdown in the agrovilas. While not discountingthe possibility that
of work oppcsrtunities. Management is also aware of accountsof increased incidence of violence,

unaffected b y Itapanca. In the absenceof baseline data,it is impossibleto deterttunewhat the
these increasing,such occurrences also occur in many populations in this region includingthose
e f f i of lack:of productive infrastructureUTISon the incidence of violence,alcohol abuse or family
breakdown.

Complaint: Erosion and Saiinization of Soils is Occurring in Irrigation Perimeters Financed
by the Project.

47
salinization in any imgated area supported under the Itapanca Project The alieged saîuiizmon 111
         The Bank,CHESFand CODEVASFare not aware of any signxficant degree of erosion or

the projects f i c e d by the Bank,ISdeiiied by CHESFtechnicalpersonnel The referenced
the Apolônio Sales subproject,a pnvate colonizationcum imgauon scheme which is not part of
                                                                                                      e
to saluuzation 111 the Senador Nilo Coelho Project is irrelevant because it is not part of the Itapanca
project or located JIIthe same regon Under the soil and climateconditionsprevailing          111the

followed Aware of these nsks,the Bank has stressedthe need for adqiate training of farmers m
regon, a nsk of salinization ewsts if proper soil and water managemeniprocedures are not

proper soil arid water management through the programs that have been supported through

21 The cunent VMT isRS23Ihonth. The national minimum wage isRSI12ímonth.
22Partsalaries increase may be an artact of a slightly lower value of the VMT in 1994 (2.2 minimiim
        of thevs.2.5 in 1991).
                                                     i5

L     IICA partnershipto minimizethese risks. Thisquestion further stressesthe importance of strong
      CODEYASF,technical assistanceconsultants,and,more recently strengthened withthe CHESF-
      WUAsto socializethe farmers for goodenvironmentalmanagement.

      48.
      that mayhave suffered erosion. Somefourplots inBorda de Lago,Pemambuco, seemto have
                CHESF reports indicatethatthere are someplots not yet turned over to their occupants

      are cut by naturally occurrhg gullies and CHESF has taken steps to arrest this erosion andprevent
      unáergone an erosiveprocess because the vegetative cover was removed prematurely. Other plots
      its becoming an obstacleto production.
      Complaint: Poor Materiais Led to Deteriorationof Housing and Infrastructurein the
      Agrovilas.

      49.
      deterioration, if it exists, is exceptional and localized. Construction and quality of infrastructure
                The Request does not indicate the extent or nature of the alleged deterioration, but such
      were monitored by Bank supervisionand problems detected were correctxi. In one area, some 600
      houses were affected by cracking of walls and slab floors due to expansible soilsthat were not
      detected prior to construction. These defects were corrected and, in some cases, houses or entire
      villagirs were completelyrebuilt. There have also been isolated, temporary breakdowns in water
      supply to some of the villages,mainly those not yet served by irrigation water. These problems,

      were not caused by the use of poor materials.
      some caused by water theft and vandalism, have alsobeen corrected as they arise. These problems

L     Complaint: Misuse of Resources or Diversionof Allocation to Other Works

      50.      The complaint does not make specific allegations or document this claim. CHESF
      offici;& recall that at one point, CHESFproposed that some stocks of material originally acquired
      for another imgation system, be used for the Apolônio Sales Subprojectand returned at a later
      date. However, because of the protests from Pó10 Sindical,the proposed exchange was not made

      allegzttions of diversion of materiel.
      and no material was diverted to other purposes. The Bank is unaware of any other specific

      Comlplaint: Project was not AdequatelySupervised by the Bank
      5 1.
      throughout its life. Startingon April 29, 1988,there were 21 formal supervisionmissions in which
               As documentedabove, the Bank supervised this project continuously and closely
      fiom one to four Bank staff or expert consultants participatedu (seeAnnex C). From 1987
      onward, an average of 19 @-weeks          per year was spent on the project. In addition, there were
      innumerableinformal visits and contacts made in person, by telephone, faxand letter between
      file documents extensive correspondence with the Borrower and CHESF concerning all of the key
      Bank staffin Recife, Brasilia and at Headquarters and CHESFand ELETROBMS. The project

      issues mentioned in the Request.




      7

I,    23 Th,eRequest itself recognizes the Bank's careful supenisionof the project and its attention to the

           average of at least three meetingsper year were held withWorld Bank representatives in Prtrolh&a
           concernsof the affected population."Pólo Sindicalleaders from differentperiods recall that an

           translzted version). It also statesthat," . . .the World Bank. despite the availability of many of its
           and in other affectedareason problems re!ated to resettiemeritand imgation systems."(p 8 of
           managers and experts, was unable to make CHESFimpleixnt its resettlement guidelines . , . ip.9  `I
           of translated version).
                                                            16

Conclusion


ItaparicaRmttkrnent Project. It is truethat compliance with the Bank'srequests was not always
52.     TheBankhascompliedwithailrelevantpoliciesinthe designand implementation ofthe

the history of thisproject shows that Management and staffmade significantefforts to detect and
sufficient, endmany unconscionabledelays OCCUIT~due to an accumulation of factors. However,

COK&
current situation is f'arfrom ideal, but the shortcomings to which the Request points d&inot arise
        probllems asthey arose and tookappropriateand timely actionto remedy problems. The
from the Bank'sfailureto follow its policies.




                                                   17

I    I
     I

e.
E

C

53.      Both the GOBandthe Bank remaincommittedto accomplishingthe                         of the
project. TheGOB has also assumed responsibilityfor honoringail agreements
         population. To this end, in December 1996,GOB formeda high level             withthe

           to propose lines of actionto concludethe program. This group was              installed
on          14, 1997,with representativesof the followingMinistries:Mines and Energy

well as
(coordinator),Planning and EconomicCoordination, Finance, Environment,and Agriculture, as
                          and           Thegroup'sgoal is to reach agreementon ail
issues, and to prepare a
subprojectsand has held discussionswith representativesof
                                 action plan. Thegroup has          made visitsto ali the
Bank. A preliminaryreport has been issued and discussedinternally.                     andthe


54.

relatively
Bank extend the closingdate ofthe Loan throughDecember 1997,an unusual action in view of the
        The GOB, largelyin response to the urging of Pólo Sindical,has also requested that the
                remainingbalance      the
and Governmenthave alreadyagreedon a          Account.in the contextof thisextension,the Bank
                                                    set of actionsthat will be completedby
December 31, 1997, as listedbelow. Theultimate objectiveis the self sufficientoperationof ail
subprojectsin the Bank            projectthrough the creationof         that will take over
responsibilityfor        and organizeefficientwater use. With regardto the subprojectsunder
construction,the objective is to complete
regard to subprojectsthat have been suspendedbecause of unexpected soil problems encountered,
                                                      as          and efficientlyas possible. With
the objectiveis to completethe supplementalstudiesas quicklyas possiblewith the necessary level
of accuracy, and to prepare specificationsand bidding documentsforthe conclusionof these
subprojects.

55.     The Benchmarksestablishedfor December 31, 1997are as
                 Creationof at least one      in 1997(Gloria sub-project);

                                                    of those subprojectscurrentlyin operationby
                 the end of 1997;
                 Issuanceof 20% of rural land

                         the reductionof      on those subprojectsin production (currentproposal

                 going into a fund to supportthe
                 of a progressivereductionof 25% every three months with half of        amount
                                                       of each subproject);

                 Completeissuanceof 100%of urban           titles;

                 Conclusionof construction and start of             of the     Mandantes
                 subproject;

                 Completionand commissioningof at least 40% of the Caraibas

                 Initiationof         in    Caraibasand


                                                21

L
              (h)      Conclusionof negotiationsbetween CHESFandF"AI forthe implementa~onof
                       the Ibotirama (Tuxá)com muni^;

              (i)
                       the Rodelas (Tuxá)program; and
                       Conclusionof negotiationsbetweenCHESFand FUNAI for the implementationof


              (j)      Conclusionof supplementarystudiesand detailedimplementationschedule for the
                       completionof the BarreiraBL2 subproject.
      The above-listed actions will be financedprimarilyout of ELETROBRASand GOB fundsin view
      of the smallloan balance andthe factthat somedisbursementcategorieshave alreadybeen reduced
      to zero.

      56.
      Bank would play in insunng sabsfactorycompletionof any componentsof the project left
              The GOB and Bank managementh v e also initiateddiscussionsconcerningthe rolethe
      unfinished after the Loan ClosingDate. The Governmentof Brazilhas askedthe Bank to extend
      fonnai supervisionof the project two years beyond the closingdate ofthe Loan Agreement (i.e.
      until December 1999). The pomt of departurefor any future Bank involvementwill be the
      Interministerial Action Plan referredto above. The Bank will not assume responsibilityfor
      supervisingsubprojectsoutsidethose appraised inthe originalproject, but will work with the
L     Brazilian authoritiesto seek solutionsfor ail the affected people.Bank Managementwill seekto
      insurethat the followingprinciplesare adheredto in any solutionadopted and intendsto use every
      possible avenueof influenceto secureagreementon them:

                       h4ainiain and improvelines of communicationand negotiationwith affected
                       familiesthrough their legitimaterepresentatives;

                       Timelycompletionof supplementarystucbes, bidding, contractingand construction
                       of ail remainingworks;

                       Preparation and adherenceto timetablesfor ali actions;

                       Continuousmonitoringof project financialand physical performance;

                       Timelyprovisionof fundsfor studies, trainingand completionof works;
                       Continuedpayment of VMT for eligible farmersuntil productionis restored;

                       Commissioningand operationof completedimgationperimeters;

                       Timely and adequatetrainingof f m e r s in imgationtechniques, soil and water
                       conservation,O&M of imgation systems,commercializationof crops;

L-                     Formationof WJAs for all imgated areas;and
                       Issuanceof Land Titlesto all project beneficiaries.




                                                       22


     . --




L




L




L

a"
m
X




      ?
      I

ea        .- v1

          U

         -u <a
            E
            QJ
          m                       cr
                                   s
                                   W


         .-E
          Q                        8
                                   Y

         .-O
          W
          v)                       o"
                                   O

         Y                       f




        .-o
        --a
          m
          o
         2L

         c1
         3
         L


        5omoi,                  co

                      W
                      o
                      E         c-.
                    D

                     m5         k

                    c
                    -.-o-     i!
                              O
                    S
                    W           CiI
                                O
                    .-
                    Q
                   .-E
                    n


                    W
                    E

                    L.

                  .-rn
                  co5o
                  -a
                  Y1
                   v)



                  A=
                  -L
                  .-a.
                  (o
                  U




                  e
                  O
                  M

                  O
                 U

                  v)
                  m
                  C

                  o
                 .I
                 U
                 .-O
                 Y
                 3
                 v)

                 I

                 rn
                 O
                 Y




      L

      C                      F

      1I
      !


      fc
      1        i
                                      c
      7

                I
                I

               i!
               4             f
                             P       c
                                     CI
                                     \

z
a
O
A          ü3HlO                  U
Y




     a                     X  X X X X X



     à
-anzan
         ISIlW133dS                                              d
                                                               )c
                                                              N


        lN3W37li3Sãä            X x         X


L                   --a a       -                        -
                                Y   hi hi  (r          U U
                      a a       Q:  Q: QI - -ua
                                            o:         Q: U
                       h
                       o: a                  PT  c   C    b
                                             C   e   c:   h
                       1  v
                          C  h             h     c     U  O
                                             <r




                         I
                      i  j
                      !  i

