Report No. 480a-MA                                                   F     L       
Malaysia                                                            FIL
Appraisal of
Keratong Land Settlement Project
September 4, 1974
East Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the Intermational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1           =    M$ 2.45
M$ 1           =    US$ 0.4082
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)         =    0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)         =    1.601 kilometers (km)
1 sq mile (sq mi)   =    640 acres
1 metric ton        =    2,204 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
DARA      -    Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
FELCRA    -    Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA     -    Federal Land Development Authority
FMC       -    Felda Marketing Corporation
FSC       -    Felda Stores Corporation
MARDI     -    Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MPOPA     -    Malaysian Palm Oil Producers' Association
MRDC      -    Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
NEP       -   New Economic Policy
PWD       -    Public Works Department
RISDA     -    Rubber Industry Smallholders' Development Authority
SEDC      -    State Economic Development Corporation
SMP       -    Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75)
Fiscal Year
January 1 through December 31



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......             .......................   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION              ........................................         1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..........................................                     1
A.    General            ........................................          1
B.    Land Development and Settlement  ................                   3
C.    Oil Palm  .......................................                   4
D.    The Federal Land Development Authority  ........             .      4
E.    The Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplan  ....... .                  4
F.    The Pahang Tenggara Development Authority    5...... 
G.   The Project Area  ...............................                    6
III.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                     7
A.    Project Description  ............................                    7
B.    Urban Development  ..............................                    7
C.    Housing and Infrastructure  ................                        8
D.    Agricultural Development  .....             ..................     10
E.   Harvesting and Processing  ......... ..               ...........   12
F.    Management          ..................     ...................     13
G.    Ecology  ........................................                  13
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  ..........           ..     ............    14
A.    Project Costs  ...............        ..     .................     14
B.    Proposed Financing  ............        ..      ...............    15
C.    Procurement and Disbursement  ....... ..             ..........    16
D.    Accounts and Audit .............................    17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMINT  .........................                     17
A.    FELDA  ..........................................    17
B.    Settlement Procedures  ........... ..            .............     18
C.    Area Office         ..................     ..................      19
D.    DARA      ..................... ......................             20
This report is based on the findings and recoimmendations of an appraisal
mission in June-July 1973 composed of Messrs. D). Elz, P. Dax, W. Panton,
and S. Sandstrom. MTessrs. Dax and Sandstrom returned to Malaysia in
February-March 1974 to complete the appraisal.



-2-
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINAINCIAL RESULTS  ........    21
A.  Yields and Production .........................    21
B.  Marketing and Prices ..........................    21
C.   Financial Results .............................    22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........... .. ............    23
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................    24
AJ'\NEXES
1.  The Federal Land Development Authority
2.  The Pahang Tenggara Regional Mlasterplan
3.  The Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
4.   Ecology
5.  Planning and Design Standards for the Project Towns
6.  Project Towns and Urban Development Pattern in Peninsular
-Ialaysia
7.  Clearing, Planting, Construction Schedules
Chart 1  Urban Development Program
Chart 2  Agricultural Development Program
Chart 3  Staging of Mill Construction and Capacity
8.  Cost and Financing Tables
Table 1  Project Costs
Table 2  Project Costs by Disbursement Categories
with Contingencies
Table 3  IBRD Financed Expenditures
Table 4  IBRD Disbursements
Table 5  FELDA Sources and Applications of Project Funds
Table 6  Government Sources and Applications of Project
Funds
9.  Settler Selection Criteria and Legal Status
10.  Unit Costs and Farm Budget
Table 1  Fertilizer Cost per Acre of Oil Palm
Table 2  Settler Wages and Labor Input



- 3 -
Table 3   Agricultural Development Cost per Acre
of Oil Palm
Table 4   FFB Sales on 14 Acres Oil Palm Holding
During Development Period
Table 5   Loan Account of Typical Settler on
14 Acre Oil Palm Holding
Table 6   Farm Budget for 14 Acre Oil Palm Holding
11.   Oil Palm Yield Estimates
12.   Economic Rate of Return Analysis
MAPS






MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The project is part of a land settlement program in the
Pahang Tenggara Region in the southeastern part of Peninsular Malaysia.
New land development is an important instrument of the Government's New
Economic Policy which aims to increase income and employment opportunities
for the unemployed and underemployed. Land development assists the country's
low income groups directly by providing higher income jobs and indirectly
by siphoning away labor from the traditional low income smallholder sector.
Recent development plans have paid particular attention to the need of pro-
viding settlers with a satisfactory range of public services and with addi-
tional non-agricultural employment opportunities. The proposed project,
which is an integral part of the Master Plan for the Pahang Tenggara Region,
will help achieve these important objectives. The Plan, including the
feasibility study for the proposed project, was prepared by a group of
consulting firms led by Foundation of Canada Engineering Corporation Ltd.
ii.       The project consists of:  (a) clearing 63,000 acres of land;
(b) planting about 55,000 acres of oil palms; (c) construction of housing
for about 3,400 settler families, offices and public buildings, such as
schools and medical facilities; (d) construction of two palm oil mills; and
(e) construction of roads and provision of water. The Federal Land Development
Authority (FELDA) - a Government agency which has the main responsibility
for land development and settlement in Malaysia -- would be responsible for
implementation of the settlement program. FELDA is also the executing agency
for the Jengka land settlement program, partly financed by three previous Bank
loans (loans 533-MA, 672 MA and 885 MA) and for the Johore Land Settlement
Project (967 MA). The Pahang Tenggara Development Authority (DARA) would
implement the construction of public buildings and urban infrastructure.
iii.      Total costs of the proposed project are estimated at M$ 241.7
million (US$98.7 million). FELDA expenditure for agricultural development,
housing, processing facilities, and management are estimated to be US$57.1
million. Direct Government expenditures for roads, water supply, and public
buildings, such as schools and health centers, would equal US$8.2 million.
Contingencies are estimated to be US$33.4 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$26.6 million, or 27% of project costs. The
proposed project would be financed through: (a) a Bank loan of US$36 million;
(b) Government loans to FELDA of US$39.2 million; (c) Government grants to
FELDA of US$7.8 million; and (d) direct Government expenditures of US$15.7
million. Contracts with an estimated value of US$38.6 million, would be let
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. These contracts would be for land clearing and planting; upgrading
of roads; the construction of buildings and palm oil mills; and for mill



- ii -
machinery and vehicles and equipment. As in the Jengka projects, fertilizers
and pesticides, US$20.2 million, would be procured within the supply system
FELDA has established for its entire land settlement program. The road and
water supply components and public buildings of the project, US$15.0 million,
would be executed by the Public Works Department on force account. The
remaining costs of US$24.9 million, would be FELDA expenditures for salaries
and settlers' wages.
iv.       This would be the ninth agricultural and forestry project
financed by the Bank in Malaysia. Previous land settlement projects
include 3 loans for the Jengka Triangle Program (Loans 533-MA, US$14.0
million; 672-MA US$13.0 million; and 885-MA US$25.0 million) approved in
1968, 1970, 1973 and of the Johore Tenggara Land Settlement Project
(Loan 967-MA, US$40 million approved in 1974). The other projects are:
a forestry project (Loan 673-MA, US$8.5 million, 1970) and two irrigation
projects - MUDA (Loan 434-MA, US$45.0 million, 1966) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA,
US$10.0 million, 1967), and the Western Johore Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 414a-MA, US$45 million, 1974). The Jengka Forestry Project (673-MA)
continues to be hampered by management problems, although imminent joint
venture arrangements appear to offer the prospects of long-term success
of this project. Other projects are progressing satisfactorily.
v..       The economic rate of return of the proposed project is 23%.  About
3,800 people would be directly employed on the schemes and on the palm-oil
mills. Annual incomes of settler families would increase from about M$ 870
(US$355) before entering the project to about M$ 6,500 (US$2,650) after some
20 years. With the assurances received during negotiations, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$36 million to the Government, for a term of
23 years, including 8 years of grace for the repayment of the principal.
The loan which would be disbursed from 1975 through 1983 would be onlent
by the Government to FELDA on the same terms as those extended to Government
by the Bank.



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LANtD SETTLEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has asked the Bank to help finance
FELDA's land settlement program in the Pahang Tenggara region. The proposed
project is part of this program and aims to establish about 3,400 smallholdings
on 55,000 acres of oil palm. Total project costs are estimated at M$ 241.7
million (US$98.7 million) and the proposed Bank loan would amount to
US$36.0 million, 36% of total project costs.
1.02      The continued expansion of agriculture, which accounted for 30%
of GDP, 50% of employment and 55% of exports in 1972, is essential for re-
ducing under- and unemployment in Malaysia. Satisfactory growth of the
economy demands the achievement of high rates of growth in smallholder
agriculture. An effective way of doing this is through new land develop-
ment and smallholder settlement programs. Considering the economic pros-
pects for growing various crops under Malaysian conditions, oil palms are
particularly suited as primary crops in settlement projects. Oil palm
growing expanded from 124,000 acres in 1960 to 1.1 million acres in 1973.
The share of the smallholder oil palm area of the total oil palm area has
been increasing steadily and reached 50% in 1973.  It is projected to rise
to 60% by 1980 as a result of Government policy to foster smallholder develop-
ment. The project would help achieve this important policy objective.
1.03      The feasibility study for the proposed project was a component of
a Master planning study for the development of the Pahang Tenggara region,
prepared in 1972 by a group of Canadian consulting firms led by the Foundation
of Canada Engineering Corporation Ltd.
1.04      This report is based upon the findings of Messrs. Elz, Dax, Panton
and Sandstrom (IBRD) who visited Malaysia in June-July 1973 to appraise the
project. Messrs Dax and Sandstrom returned to Malaysia in February/March
1974 to complete the appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The total land area of Malaysia is about 128,000 square miles.
Less than one-fourth of the area of Peninsular Malaysia (formerly West
Malaysia) and only about 3% of Sarawak and Sabah (formerly East Malaysia)
pre under cultivation.  Tropical rain forest covers most of the remaining



area. The climate is characterized by uniformly warm to hot temperatures,
varying from 76°F to 83°F, abundant rainfall averaging 90" and is suitable
for oil palm cultivation.
2.02      Population in 1972 was estimated at 11.6 million, growing at
about 2.8% yearly. About 85% of the population is concentrated in Peninsular
Malaysia with the highest densities on the west coast and in the south. On
the Peninsula, Malays account for about 53% of the population, Chinese 35%
and Indians 11%.
2.03      The Malaysian economy is export-oriented.  In 1973, exports
accounted for about 50% of GNP. Main exports were rubber, US$1,023 million,
timber and sawn logs, US$631 million, tin US$366 million, and palm oil US$191
million. Real GNP grew at an average rate of 6% during the last decade and
amounted to about US$6.5 billion in 1973. Average real GNP per capita,
which grew at a yearly average rate of 3% during the 60's, was US$480 in 1973,
but only about US$300 in rural areas, and even less in the smallholder sector
(about US$200). Real per capita income grew at 11% in 1973, more than
offsetting a 3% decline in 1972 due to deterioration in terms of trade.
A most significant recent development of the Malaysian economy is unprecedented
high inflation rates. During the 1960's, the average annual inflation rate
was 1%. Inflation increased to about 3% in 1971 and 1972, and to 18% during
1973. It is unlikely than an open economy like Malaysia's would be able to
isolate itself from worldwide inflationary trends, though inflation is expected
to level off to about 6% from 1975 onwards.
2.04      Income levels in Malaysia differ significantly among ethnic groups.
Malays generally have lower incomes than non-Malays. Much of this income
imbalance arises because nearly 80% of the Malay employment is in the rural
sector compared with slightly more than 50% for the non-Malay. But even
within the rural sector, Malay incomes are generally much lower. More than
half of the total Malay labor force is engaged in traditional low income
smallholder agriculture compared to 14% of the non-Malay labor force. The
dissatisfaction with the distribution of benefits of economic growth and
with growing racial income inequality provides the basis for the New Economic
Policy (NEP). Two of the major aims of this policy, expressed in the Second
Malaysia Plan (SMP) 1971-75, are: (a) to reduce poverty by raising income
levels and increasing employment opportunities for all Malaysians; and (b)
to accelerate the process of restructuring the Malaysian society to correct
economic imbalances so as to reduce and eventually eliminate the identifica-
tion of race with economic function. Rapid growth of land development will
help reduce poverty by creating jobs. It will directly help the country's
rural poor by providing higher income employment, and indirectly, by siphon-
ing labor away from the traditional smallholder sector. At the same time
land development will help correct income disparities between ethnic groups
because most of the new land will be settled by Malays.



B. Land Development and Settlement
2.05      Since the early 1960s, the Government has given high priority to
land development and settlement, to provide economically viable farm units to
families now farming at close to subsistence level and to relieve urban and
rural unemployment. The major public sector programs have been carried out
by FELDA and by State Governments which retain overall responsibility for
land affairs.  The target for new land development under the SNP is 1 million
ac of which 750,000 ac will be developed in Peninsular Malaysia.
2.06      Comprehensive regional land development plans have been prepared
for several development areas. The first of these was for the Jengka Triangle
in the State of Pahang, where FELDA is developing 96,400 ac of oil palm and
rubber, partly financed by three Bank loans (533,672 and Loan 885-MA). A
second plan was for the 750,000 ac Johore Tenggara region, where the Bank
is helping to finance another FELDA project developing about 65,000 ac of
oil palms (Loan 967-MA). A third plan was for the development of 2.5 million
ac in Pahang Tenggara, where the proposed project is situated. Similar
planning studies are currently being carried out in Kelantan and Sarawak.
2.07      The success of various settlement schemes has varied widely, depending
largely on the effectiveness of the project identification and planning
process and efficiency of the management. State organized schemes have been
generally poor in comparison with the much better organized and managed FELDA
schemes. The average size of smallholdings outside organized development
schemes is currently around 4 ac, although there is a wide diversity between
regions, due to differences in local land availability, population pressure
and other factors. Without income from other sources, these holdings are
too small to be viable at projected palm oil and rubber prices. The con-
solidation of fragmented and overly small holdings into viable units remains
of high priority and is the focus of programs under the Federal Land Con-
solidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) and the Rubber Industry
Smallholders' Development Authority (RISDA). Their target acreages under
the SMP are 100,000 ac and 150,000 ac respectively. FELDA smallholder oil
palm holdings have increased from 10 ac allotted to settlers in the 1960s
to 14 ac since experience has shown that family labor is under-utilized on
smaller holdings. The average size of 14 ac for oil palm under the proposed
project is a plot which provides full-time employment for at least one person
(see Annex 10, Table 2) and is compatible with the long-term objective of
abridging income disparities between rural and urban sectors.
C. Oil Palm
2.08      Until 1960, oil palm growing in Malaysia was comparatively unim-
portant, but it expanded rapidly from about 124,000 ac in 1960 to 1.1 mil-
lion ac in 1973. Originally, most of the oil palm was grown on estates,



- 4 -
but by 1973, the smallholder area accounted for about 502 of the total area
and is estimated to increase to about 60% by 1980. Most of the production
is for export, which amounted to 730,000 tons in 1973. Expansion is con-
tinuing and it is estimated that by 1985, Malaysia would produce about
3.2 million tons or 70% of estimated world palm oil exports and 50% of palm
kernel oil exports. Although the rapid expansion of palm oil production
and exports in Malaysia and other countries has led to increases in the
share of this commodity on total world fats and oils exports, palm oil
accounted for only 8.7% of total world exports in 1972 and there were no
difficulties in selling palm oil on world markets. 1/ This is due mainly
to (a) improvements in quality and processing technology which increased
the uses of palm oil and (b) the steadily rising import demand for fats and
oils particularly from developing countries.
2.09      Despite its success in introducing large-scale production of palm
oil, the Government recognizes the need for diversification to reduce the risk
from heavy reliance on rubber and palm oil and thus made diversification a
major goal of the SMP. FELDA is cooperating in this effort through commercial
scale experiments in sugar and cocoa. High priority is placed on building an
efficient livestock industry. In 1972, four beef and dairy farms, comprising
a total of 17,000 ac were set up and further expansion is under way. The
Government has recently created the Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute (MARDI) which, besides other activities, carries out
research and experimentation into new crops. A MARDI research project is now
being appraised.
D. The Federal Land Development Authority
2.10      FELDA was created in 1956 to carry out land development and settle-
ment projects (see paras 5.01 and 5.02). Since then, it has become the
largest and most efficient public land settlement agency in Malaysia.  By
June 1973, it had developed about 430,000 ac and settled some 27,500 families.
Its original oil palm and rubber planting program under the SMP was 275,000 ac
but this has been raised to about 400,000 ac since FELDA has already exceeded
its annual target in 1972 and is expected to exceed its target for the
remaining Plan years. (Annex 1).
E. The Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplan
2.11      A comprehensive analysis of the natural resources and land use in
Peninsular Malaysia was undertaken during the First Malaysia Plan period
(1966-70). It led to the identification of several large areas of forested
1/   See, Palm Oil - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending,  Sec. M73-556,
September 14, 1973.



land with considerable potential for agricultural development -- among them
Pahang Tenggara, located in the southeastern part of the State of Pahang
and with a total area of about 2.5 million acres (see Map). A "Masterplanning
Study for Pahang Tenggara" was carried out between July, 1970 and July, 1972
by a consortium of Canadian consultants. 1/ The Master Plan recommended
the development up to 1990 of about 530,000 ac for agriculture, mainly oil
palm and rubber. This was in addition to the about 440,000 ac allocated
before the commencement of the study, where development was already progressing.
Two integrated logging and timber processing complexes were also recommended.
Feasibility studies were undertaken by the consultants for specific projects,
including the proposed one. Total public sector costs through 1990 for the
development of Pahang Tenggara were estimated at about M$ 930 million
(US$380 million) in 1971 prices, of which 75% were to be expended during
the 1970's. About one third of the total would be for FELDA development
(See Annex 2).
2.12      An important feature of the master plan is the proposed establish-
ment of several new towns to serve the approximately 500,000 people who
are expected to settle in the region by about 1990. Keratong town to be
established in part through the FELDA settlements financed under this project
(paras 3.02 through 3.12) would be one of the largest of these new towns.
The concentration of small-holders to be settled under government land
development schemes in urban settlements rather than dispersed villages
follows the government's New Economic Policy which has as one of its aims
to urbanize the Malay population and to direct urban growth away from a few
large cities to medium-sized towns (Annex 6). Similar new towns are being
developed in the Jengka Triangle and in Johore Tenggara. While the feasi-
bility of FELDA's land settlement schemes as agricultural development projects
is well tested, the effectiveness of concentrated FELDA settlements in the
establishment of new towns is yet to be proven. Furthermore, the impact of
concentrated urban-type settlement on the agricultural efficiency of FELDA
schemes requires careful monitoring. FELDA's participation in the planned
development of new towns in Pahang Tenggara thus adds new risks as well as
benefits to these land settlement schemes. The Pahang Tenggara Development
Authority has been established with wide powers to promote a pattern of
regional development including agro-business and manufacturing which would
reinforce the demand for urban services which is to be derived from concentrated
FELDA schemes.
F. The Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
2.13      Immediately after its completion, the implementation of the Master
Plan began under the responsibility of the newly established Pahang Tenggara
1/   Foundation of Canada Engineering Corporation Ltd., in association with
van Ginkel Associates Ltd., S. G. Gardiner Engineering Services Ltd.,
and Charnell International Consultants Ltd.



Development Authority (DARA -/) (Annex 3). To discharge its functions, DARA
has been given wide powers to foster development in the region, including
the establishment of its own manufacturing and processing plants. It can
enter into joint ventures with any agency or corporation, public or private,
domestic or foreign. It can establish local public bodies and impose charges
for the provision of public services, and it can direct other Federal and
State agencies to carry out infrastructure development.  A seven member Board
guides overall policy.  It is directly responsible to the Prime Minister.
The State of Pahang has three representations on the Board.  Similar devel-
opment authorities have been established in the Jengka Triangle and Johore
Tenggara, although with less authority.
2.14      DARA receives its funds for infrastructure development in the form
of grants from the Federal Government. Such funds are budgeted by DARA but
expended by the Federal Public Works Department (PWD), which carries out
design and construction for DARA. Investments in regional commercial ven-
tures are financed through Government loans. To date, all such investments
(;ogging and timber processing complexes, a beef ranch, and a tea estate)
iave been joint ventures with private interests.
C. The Project Area
2.15      The proposed project lies in the southwestern part of Pahang
Tenggara, close to the boundary with Johore State and about 150 miles by road
from Kuala Lumpur (see Map). It is organized into nine adjoining schemes
on a tract of land surrounded by the river Sungai Keratong on three sides,
and by rough hilly country on the fourth. The terrain is undulating to
rolling with friable, deep, sandy clay loams most suitable for oil palm.
Rainfall is fairly evenly distributed, and is about 100" annually. Prior
to 1972, when the first felling took place, the area was uninhabited and
covered with dipterocarp rain forest. The forest is currently being worked
for its commercial timber by about 20 timber licensees, operating under the
regulatory control of the State Forest Department.
2.16      Access to a large part of the area is already possible via a net-
work of well maintained timber extraction routes, and many of these will
later be utilized as part of the project road system and further improved
by FELDA. A major highway, joining Kuantan, the State capital, with Segamat,
a major district center in north Johore, is also planned to dissect the
project area and will link the major settlements to the national road system
when completed in 1976. Water supply for the project will come from local
surface sources, which are adequate.
1/   DARA (Development Authority for Pahang Tenggara).



III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The proposed project would be part of an ongoing FELDA settlement
program which started in 1972. The project would be carried out over 9 years,
1974 through 1982. Principal project components would be:
(a) clearing of about 63,000 ac of forest and planting
and maintenance of about 55,000 ac of oil palm;
(b) construction of two urban settlements, includ-
ing housing, schools, clinics, community centers, and the
necessary infrastructure, for about 3,400 settler families,
and management and support staff; and
(c) phased construction of 2 palm oil mills with a capacity of
about 125 tons ffb 1/ per hour.
B. Urban Development
3.02      The settlers would live in two towns:  Keratong town (Town 22 -/),
with 2,556 settler families in 7 residential neighborhoods (one for each
agricultural scheme), and Town 21, with 817 settler families in 2 neighborhoods
(see Map). The 7 scheme neighborhoods in Keratong town would surround an
urban core where civic and commercial facilities (not part of the project),
which would serve the southwest subregion of Pahang Tenggara would be located.
The total population by 1990 is projected at about 36,000 for Keratong town
and 7,000 for Town 21. By the time the labor requirements on the agricultural
schemes decrease, which coincides with the time when the settler children
enter the labor force, the town economies should be able to absorb this
additional labor (Annex 6). The unemployment problems and the out-migration
experienced in older and smaller FELDA settlements would not occur. Effective
use of the concentrated urban type FELDA settlements in the establishment
of new towns and achievement of these targets requires a strong and active
development authority (para 2.12) with the capacity to closely monitor and
initiate development. DARA, if strengthened would be satisfactory (see paras
5.13 - 5.15). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within one
year after loan signing the government would present for Bank review and
comment a detailed action program for the promotion and location of economic
1/   Fresh fruit bunches:  the fruit of the oil palm (a cluster of oily nuts
around a stem) prior to processing.
2/   The numbers are those used in the Master Plan to identify the towns,
most of which are still unnamed.



- 8 -
activities such as rural industries, agro-business and manufacturing in
Keratong town and vicinity. The action program would also include plans and
timetables for the eventual establishment of Keratong town as district
headquarters with commensurate administrative infrastructure and social
services. Assurances were also obtained that Government, on completion of
the action program and upon receipt of Bank comments, would review and,
if necessary, reformulate the existing structural plans for Keratong town
prior to their becoming binding upon FELDA and other government agencies
engaged in the implementation of the project.
3.03      Due to favorable topographic conditions, the project area is compact
and it is feasible to concentrate the settlers in only two settlements without
causing substantially higher settler transport requirements than in other
recent land settlement projects. A more dispersed settlement pattern than
the proposed one would lead to an increase in infrastructure costs (access
roads and water transmission lines) substantially larger than the savings in
settler transport costs (larger by a factor of seven if one village were to
be located in the center of each scheme) (see Annex 6). Under the settlement
pattern adapted in the project, 45% of the holdings would be located within
a road distance of 3 miles from the settlers' houses, another 45% between 3
and 6 miles, and 10% between 6 and 9 miles. In the Johore Land Settlement
Project the corresponding percentages are 60%, 35%, and 5%. At distances
below 3 miles the settlers either walk or bicycle. At greater distances
settler transport is handled by FELDA during the development period, through
the tractor-cum-trailer combinations available on each scheme. After the
development period settlers usually buy a motorcycle and provide for their
own transport. FELDA's settler transport would peak during 1978-80 when the
available tractors would handle about 80% of requirements. The shortage could
be met by hiring equipment temporarily. However, harmonization of the public
transport system, which is planned by DARA, with FELDA's settler transport
is required to achieve efficient utilization of equipment and higher service
standards. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that FELDA, in
consultation with DARA, within 12 months after the signing of the loan
agreement will have prepared a proposal for optimum settler transportation
and for allocating responsibility for implementation.
C. Housing and Infrastructure
3.04      The infrastructure standards proposed for Town 21 are modest and
conform to FELDA practice (see Annex 5). Intermediate standards are proposed
for Keratong Town, and provisions would be made for future upgrading of
infrastructure standards depending on the incomes attained by the settlers and
on the growth of the towns.



-9-
Housing
3.05      The settlers' houses are constructed by private contractors, em-
ployed by FELDA. The full cost, M$ 1,800 (US$735) is charged to the settler's
loan (para 5.10, Annex 10, Table 5). The design is relatively simple and
inexpensive but the house will provide the settler family with satisfactory
accommodation. After the development period, when the incomes of the settlers
increase, they normally upgrade their homes. Extension plans and material
are available through FELDA. This modified sites and services approach is
working well in older FELDA settlements.
Roads
3.06      About 77 miles of local roads would be constructed within the
two towns -- 15 miles of primary and 62 miles of secondary roads (see Annex 5
and Annex 7, Chart 1). All road construction would be carried out through
the Federal and State Public Works Departments (PWD), whereas maintenance
will be the responsibility of the State PWD, which receives Federal grants
for this purpose. Agricultural roads within the project schemes would be
constructed and maintained by FELDA.
3.07      In addition to the regional access highway system now being
constructed in Pahang Tenggara, only about two miles of roads would be
specifically built to gain access to the project towns. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that:
(a) the construction schedule for the access highway system
would meet the requirements of FELDA's land development
program, and that the highways connecting the project area
with Segamat would be completed by 1976;
(b) the Bahau Highway (see Map) would be constructed with an
alignment which is in accordance with the final structural
plans for Keratong town.
Water Supply and Sewerage
3.08      Treated water will be supplied to the towns from surface water
sources. Each house will have its own water connection. The water supply
systems would be designed and constructed by the Federal PWD and operated
and maintained by the State PWD. The water will be metered and charged at
a present rate of M$ 1.00 per 1,000 gallons, which covers capital and operating
costs.
3.09      The only sewerage facilities to be provided for the settlers are
"back-houses", as is customary in FELDA villages. This is satisfactory,
considering the initial low population density and the soil conditions in the
area. However, the possibility of future installation of a sewerage system,
as part of the upgrading of the infrastructure, is under study by DARA and
FELDA (para 3.04). In preparing the detailed town plans, the site layout and
levelling requirements for such a system will be considered.



- 10 -
Communal Facilities
3.10      A primary school would be provided in each scheme neighborhood in
the two towns, with approximately one school building with six classrooms
per 400 settler families. Four secondary schools would also be provided.
All classrooms would be utilized in two shifts. These standards are accept-
able -- they are determined by the Federal Government and applied to all
new development areas. Two health sub-centers, each staffed with one hospi-
tal assistant (paramedic) and one nurse and regularly visited by a physician,
are to be provided in Keratong town. Also, six community clinics will be
built -- five in Keratong town and one in Town 21 -- each staffed with
one nurse. In addition, each scheme neighborhood will have a community
center, a public playing field and a mosque (see Annex 5). Electricity
supply from the national grid system is not planned until the 1980's and
meanwhile diesel generators will be used by FELDA to supply electricity to
offices and-staff quarters.
3.11      FELDA, through Federal grants, provides the funds for the con-
struction of the community centers and the mosques while the responsible
Federal ministries provide the funds for the construction of the schools,
health sub-centers and community clinics. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the respective Federal ministries would provide the staff
for and meet all other recurrent costs for the schools and health facilities.
The recurrent costs for the operation of communal facilities would be covered
by levying a small charge on the settlers.
Commercial Facilities
3.12      A cooperative shop, operated by the FELDA Stores Corporation (FSC)
(see para 5.03) is to be located in each scheme neighborhood, in conjunction
with the scheme office. Eventually the purchasing power of the settlers and
the availability of labor should induce the establishment of more commercial
and service facilities, which is an important aspect of the maturing process
of the towns.
D. Agricultural Development
Land Tenure
3.13      Land for the project, which is all State land, has been allocated
to FELDA by the State Government. Land is cleared and planted by contrac-
tors. Settlers take over the operation of the schemes about 18 months after
planting. They are paid wages until about 5 years after planting, which,
as part of agricultural development cost, form part of their loan obligation
(para 5.10). At that time, yields are sufficient to provide an adequate
income for the settler and to enable him to start loan repayments (see
Annex 10, Tables 4 to 6). Each settler then enters into an agreement with
FELDA, making him an occupier in expectation of title to 14 ac of oil palm,



- 11 -
which would be held in common with other settlers in a block of 20 such
holdings, and a 0.25 ac individual house plot. On completion of his loan
repayment the settler receives title to the land (see para 5.09). As the
smaller traditional village schemes, title to the agricultural holding and
the houselot would be joint -- although separation of title may occur after
repayment of the settler loan.
Clearing and Planting Program
3.14      Before FELDA begins the development of the land and in accordance
with a time schedule which meets FELDA's requirements, marketable timber
is extracted from the forest by licensees under the supervision of the State
Forest Department. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that timber extraction will not delay FELDA's land clearing
program.
3.15      Typically, felling, land clearing and burning, mostly done manually,
take place during October through March. A leguminous cover crop is planted
afterwards followed by lining operations. Planting usually begins in Sept-
ember and may extend into the second quarter of the following year depending
on the size of the scheme. These operations are carried out by contractors
under FELDA supervision. The crop is then maintained by contract labor for
a further 18 months, during which regular monthly weeding rounds are under-
taken, dead or weak plants are replaced, and regular fertilizer applications
are made. Settlers replace contract labor about 18 months after planting
(para 3.13). Costs per acre are shown in Annex 10, Tables 1 to 3.
3.16      The clearing and planting schedule is given in Annex 7, Chart 2,
and is summarized below:
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  Total
Forest Clearing
('000 ac)          6.5  12.3  15.1  12.8  15.9   -    62.6
Planting
('000 ac)                 3.5  13.5  13.3  10.9  13.4  54.6
More land would be cleared than planted, to allow for roads, and processing
facilities. FELDA retains about 10% of the planted area in each scheme,
operating it commercially with hired labor. These areas also serve as
reserves to be reallocated to settlers in the event of unforeseen damages
to settler blocks.
3.17      Planting material would be produced in FELDA nurseries each of
about 40 ac. Nurseries would be established on the scheme site a few months
ahead of the main felling. Adequate supplies of proven planting material
are available in Malaysia.



- 12 -
3.18      The cost of fertilizer per acre for FELDA schemes increased by
60% between March 1973 and March 1974. In view of this increase, the need
to re-examine the cost effectiveness of present fertilizer applications was
raised during negotiations. The Malaysian representatives indicated that
MARDI was conducting cost-effectiveness studies as part of its continuing
oil palm research program, and that in planning its fertilizer program FELDA
works in close consultation with MARDI.
Labor and Settlers
3.19      The labor force needed for land clearing, preparation, planting
and early maintenance is hired by contractors. Oil palm nursery establishment
and maintenance is carried out directly by FELDA staff, using locally recruited
labor.
No problems are envisaged in recruiting settlers.  In March 1973,
R_L-LA fhad about 11,000 settler applications for an estimated settler intake
of 3,800 in 1973. Settler selection procedures are described in Annex 9.
E. Harvesting and Processing
3.21      Correct timing of harvest, careful handling and speedy trans-
portation of the fresh fruit bunches to the mill, followed by rapid process-
ing, are essential for production of high quality palm oil. FELDA experience
has shown that a group harvesting system is the most practical method for
obtaining the required standards. Under this system, settlers are grouped
lnto teams of 20 and are made responsible for cutting and collection of the
fruit from a designated 280 ac block, which will become their joint holding
,'para 3.13). The group works under the supervision of an elected group
leader who allocates individual tasks and checks the quality of the work,
under the supervision of the FELDAs cheme manager (see para 3.23). Transporta-
tion of fresh fruit bunches from harvesters' collection points to processing
raills is undertaken by private haulage contractors.
3.22      Two palm oil mills, with a total capacity of about 125 tons ffb/hr
in 1982, would be constructed by 'ELDA to handle the requirements of the
project. Construction of the first mill will commence in 1976 and the last
stage will be completed in 1988 (Annex 7, Chart 3).  As in its other schemes,
FELDA would prepare plans and specifications, would supervise mill construc-
ion and would manage their operation.  Transportation of the oil to the port
for export is handled by private contractors and by FELDA's own tankers.



- 13 -
F. Management
3.23      There will be a manager with a staff of 17 to 26 persons for
each scheme. Management housing and offices will be located in each scheme
neighborhood center and will be constructed through FELDA by private con-
tractors (Annex 7, Chart 1). Each scheme office would be provided with two
4-wheel-drive vehicles, 4 tractors, and 1 diesel generator for electricity
supply. Staff salaries and other management operating costs during the
development period are included in the project cost, in addition to the
capital costs for housing, offices, vehicles and equipment.
G. Ecology
3.24      Land development within the project area would be carried out in
conformity with the Malaysian Conservation Act which provides an adequate
safeguard against erosion, siltation and excessive flooding (Annex 4). The
FELDA project area is confined entirely to the undulating or low hilly lands
containing soils of proven suitability for tree crop and town site devel-
opment, and excludes the steeper land areas where a multiple land use policy
based on permanent forestry would be retained. Those areas of forest which
have marketable timber potential will be worked on a sustained yield basis
using an assisted regeneration system of forest improvement. A permanent
forest reserve area will serve an essential water conservation role by
safeguarding the regularity of run-off required to meet the increasing
internal demand for water supplies within the settled portions of the region.
It will also afford a sanctuary for the wild life which, at least temporarily,
may be driven out of the area cleared for agriculture. Assurances were
obtained that the Government will take all necessary action to ensure that
in carrying out the project appropriate environmental principles are fully
observed.
3.25      Processing mills would be sited at appropriate distances away
from residential areas, in proximity to adequate water supplies, to reduce
the consequences of pollution from effluents (a subject which is being given
close attention by MARDI). Natural forest would be retained as river bank
reserves within the areas of agricultural development to avoid erosion of
river banks and the pollution by chemnical fertilizers being washed into the
river.



- 14 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
4.01      Project costs from 1974 through 1982 on the basis of early 1974
estimates and contingencies as described are estimated at M$ 241.7 million
(US$98.7 million) with a foreign exchange component of M$ 68.4 million
(US$26.6 million) or about 27% of project costs.
4.02      Detailed project cost estimates are at Annex 8, Table 1, and are
summarized below:
----M$ Million----- ----US$ Million---- Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
I.   FELDA Expenditure
Agricultural
Development            62.6   25.6   88.2  25.7   10.4   36.1'   29
Settlers' Housing
and Housing Lots        6.8      .4    7.2   2.8      .1    2.9      5
Processing Facilities  18.3   10.7   29.0   7.5    4.4   11.9    37
Management              13.5    1.7   15.2   5.5       .7  757.1-     11
Sub-total         101.2   38.4  139.6  41.5   15.6   57.1    27
II. Direct Government
Expenditure
Roads                    6.3    2.7    9.0   2.5    1.2    3.7    30
Water Supply             3.8    1.6    5.4   1.5       .7    2.2    30
Public Buildings         5.0      .6    5.6   2.1      .2    2.3    10
Sub-total          15.1    4.9   20.0   6.1    2.1    8.2    26
Base Cost Estimate    116.3   43.3  159.6  47.6   17.7   65.3    27
III. Contingencies
Physical (5% item 1,
15% item II)            7.3    2.7   10.0   3.0    1.0    4.0    27
Price (see
para 4.03)             52.7   19.4   72.1  21.5    7.9   29.4    27
Sub-total          60.0   22.1   82.1  24.5    8.9   33.4    27
Total Project Cost    176.3   65.4  241.7  72.1   26.6   98.7    27



-15 -
4.03      The estimates are based on experience in similar FELDA schemes.
A 5% physical contingency has been applied to all FELDA expenditures. This
relatively low provision is justified by the competitiveness of experienced
field development contractors as well as the standardization of housing
and mill design. A 15% physical contingency has been allowed for infra-
structure development costs. Price contingencies are calculated on the
following assumptions regarding cost increases: for equipment, 14% in 1974,
11% in 1975, and 7.5% thereafter; for civil works 16% in 1974, 14% in 1975,
and 12% thereafter; for other expenditures 12% in 1974, 9% in 1975, and 6%
thereafter.
B. Proposed Financing
4.04      It is proposed that a Bank loan of USS36.0 million (M$ 88.2 mil-
lion) to be disbursed from 1975 through 1983 be made to Government for
23 years, including a grace period of 8 years for repayment of the principal.
The proposed loan would finance about 36% of project costs. About US$22 mil-
lion would be for foreign exchange expenditures and about US$14 million
equivalent for local currency costs. The loan would be onlent by the Govern-
ment to FELDA on the same terms as the Bank loan.
4.05      Remaining project costs, US$62.7 million, would be met by:  (a)
Government loans to FELDA of US$39.2 million covering FELDA development costs
not financed by IBRD; (b) direct Government expenditure of US$15.7 million
for roads, water supply and public buildings; and (c) Government grants
to FELDA of US$7.8 million for management operating costs (Annex 8, Tables 1
and 2).  The Government loan, which would be at the same terms as other
Government loans to FELDA, would be at 5-1/2%, repayable over 25 years,
including ten years of grace.  No interest would be charged for the first
five years. FELDA loan terms to oil palm settlers are in Chapter V. Govern-
ment would make available to FELDA, monthly and in advance, the investment
funds and working capital required by the project. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.06      In summary, the project would be financed as follows:
IBRD            Government
Loarns   Grants   Total      Total
FELDA Expenditures             88.2       96.1    19.1    115.2        203.4
Direct Government
Expenditures                                     38.4     38.4        38.4
Total (MS$ Million)       88.2       96.1    57.5    153.6       241.8
Total (US$ Million)            36.0       39.2    23.5      62.7        98.7
Percent of Total               36%        40%      24%      64%        1002



- 16 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      Contracts with an estimated value of US$38.6 million (39% of
project costs) would be let under international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. These are for land clearing and planting,
housing and office buildings, upgrading of agricultural roads and culverts
(together US$22.6 million), palm oil mill machinery and construction (US$15.2
million), and vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million). Experienced contractor
capacity for land clearing and house construction is available in Malaysia
and these project works are likely to be carried out by local contractors.
A range of mill machinery and vehicle components is manufactured in Malaysia
and local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of protection of 15% or
the customs duty, whichever is less, as in the previous FELDA projects.
4.08      The procurement of fertilizer and pesticides (US$20.0 million)
Would be spread over eight years with the largest expenditures being for
nit:o 26, rock phosphate, muriate of potash and kieserite fertilizers
(Annex 10, Table I). In spite of supply difficulties particularly for
nitrogeneous fertilizers, FELDA's well established relations with the major
suppliers and its high turnover are expected to give it continued access to
needed supplies. Project requirements would be purchased after local com-
petitive bidding. Major international fertilizer companies are well
represented in Malaysia and competitive. It would be neither practical
nor economical to establish a separate supply system for the project.
4.09      Town roads, water supply systems and public buildings (US$15.0 mil-
lion) would be financed by Government and constructed on PWD force account.
4.10      The remaining costs (US$24.9 million) are direct FELDA expendi-
tures which are not suitable for local or international competitive bidding
and include management salaries, operating costs, settler wages and plant-
ing materials. For details, see Annex 8, Table 2.
4.11      IBRD financed expenditures and disbursements are detailed in
Annex 8, Tables 3 and 4, respectively. Disbursements would generally
follow the procedures adopted for the four previous FELDA loans and would
be made against appropriate documents as follows:
(a)  60% of total costs for land clearing and planting, upgrading
of agricultural roads, housing, house lot development, and
palm oil mill construction and machinery; and
(b)  100% of c.i.f. expenditures for directly imported fertilizer,
pesticides, vehicles and equipment, or 100% of the ex-factory
cost (less identifiable taxes), if manufactured locally, or
80% of total expenditure if imported but procured locally.



- 17 -
D. Accounts and Audit
4.12      FELDA would maintain a separate and independently audited account
for the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed to audit
the project. The Government's and FELDA's financial year is January 1
through December 31. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that
FELDA would furnish the Bank, within six months following the close of the
fiscal year, with audited project accounts as well as FELDA's audited overall
financial statements.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. FELDA
5.01      A description of FELDA's organization, objectives and performance
is in Annex 1. The Authority is a Government-owned agency under the Ministry
of National and Rural Development with a wide range of autonomy on day to
day operations.
5.02      FELDA is provided with most of its funds from Government budgetary
allocations. The balance has been covered by IBRD and a loan from the
Asian Development Bank. A Board of 12 members under an Executive Chairman
includes representatives of public agencies and the private sector. The
Board determines operating policies and carries overall responsibility.
The chief executive of FELDA is tie Director General who is also a member
of the Board. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Bank
will be afforded an adequate opportunity to comment on the qualifications
and experience of any proposed new appointee to the position of Chairman of
the Board or Director General of FELDA.
5.03      The FELDA Stores Corporation (FSC), with the Director General as
chairman but with a separate constitution, operates a chain of retail shops
serving FELDA settlers. Fifty-one percent of the equity of the FSC is re-
tained by FELDA and the balance is for issue to settler cooperatives. To
allow for greater marketing flexibility within FELDA, a separate FELDA
Marketing Corporation (FMC) was formed in 1973. It operates independently
under the Director General's chairmanship. Apart from its usual marketing
functions, it handles all Government sales contracts for palm oil and
rubber.
5.04      FELDA is the main Government agency responsible for implementing
Government's settlement policies. Because of its proven ability to carry
out these policies, it has been given increasing targets. Yearly plantings
of oil palm and rubber have increased from 10,500 acres in 1960 to nearly



- 18 -
100,000 ac in 1973. In addition, the Authority has been given a greater
role in the Government's crop diversification policy. In 1973, about
3,100 ac were planted with sugar cane and 5,000 ac of cocoa are to be
planted in 1974-75.
5.05 The rapid expansion of FELDA operations has not been without
problems. Delays have occurred in implementing the planting program and
settler intake leading to higher costs, mainly because of delays in infra-
structure development (roads, water supply) which is carried out by Govern-
ment agencies. These shortcomings were partly the result of unrealistic
time schedules in the early years. More realistic schedules are now worked
out and cost projections made accordingly.
5.06      Another shortcoming in FELDA operations has been its financial
accounting system. The system was not able to meet the needs of an expand-
ing, diversified organization. As a result, Public Administration Services
(PAS), a Cnicago-based consulting firm, was engaged in 1972 to recommend
improvements. They introduced a computerized accounting system which is now
being implemented. Apart from streamlining and speeding up financial ac-
counting, departmental recording and reporting systems will be coordinated
to a degree which has not been possible to date.
B. Settlement Procedures
Settler Selection
5.07      Most of the settlers are Malays (para 2.04).  Selected candidates
are mainly landless peasants, poor smallholders or ex-servicemen. They
must own less than two acres of land to be eligible. Interviews are carried
out in two stages, first at the district level and then at the national level;
the final selection is based on a points system which takes account of age
and family circumstances, experience and capabilities, land ownership and
educational level. Details are in Annex 9.
Settler Status
5.08      Settlers sign the first part of their agreement with FELDA on arrival
at the scheme. This entitles them to a FELDA loan which covers all agri-
culturai development costs and housing and house lot expenses during the
development period. It a_so binds them to the rules laid down by FELDA and
to carry out work on the sc1-i.,e as instructed by FELDA management staff.  Failure
to abide by the rules. may result in tne settler being expelled from the scheme.
During the early years of settlement, the settlers carry out the agricultural
work on the scheme, for which tney receive a minimum of M$ 3.50 per day
which is charged to their loan account. if monthly earnings are less than
M$ 90, the wage is supplemented by a subsistence loan to bring the monthly



- 19 -
income up to this level. For the proposed project, wage incomes of oil palm
settlers during the development period will be sufficient not to warrant
subsistence payments (Annex 10, Table 5).
5.09      At the end of the fifth year after oil palm planting, loan re-
payment begins and the settler signs the second part of his agreement.
This registers him as an occupier in expectation of title to 14 ac of oil
palm, together with a house lot of 0.25 ac. Once the settler has paid off
his loan, he acquires title to the land (para 3.13). Oil palms are main-
tained and harvested in blocks of 280 acres, and the settler receives a
right to a share of proceeds equivalent to his share of the joint holding
which would be managed by FELDA until loan repayment is completed.
5.10      Loans to settlers covering agricultural development costs (in-
cluding wages paid to the settler during the development period) and housing
are repayable at 6-1/4% over 15 years after the 6 year development period
during which interest is capitalized (Annex 10, Table 5). Investment in
mill construction and equipment is recovered by a processing fee to settlers
which is sufficient to cover mill operating costs and generate a reasonable
return on investment. Scheme management costs would be recovered in this
project by a price-proportional levy (see Annex 9) raised when prices are
such that settler incomes exceed the target of M$ 3,600 per year. At
present and projected prices management costs are fully recovered. The
elements of subsidy in these terms are consistent with Government income
policy in the smallholder sector and serve as incentives for settlers to
contribute their labor and enterprise to the task of opening up new land
(para 7.03). However, in the light of recent and projected high palm oil
prices and the resulting higher incomes expected for settlers, Bank repre-
sentatives expressed concern during negotiations about the continuation of
the proposed level of subsidies. Assurance was given that FELDA will
review the settler subsidy policy and will submit a proposal for Bank comment
prior to December 31, 1975.
C. Area Office
5.11      The project will be controlled from the FELDA North Johore/Keratong
Office, established in 1973 as FELDA's eight regional office. The first
seven were set up in 1971 in an effort to create more flexible and dynamic
operational direction and control of development. The area controller in
charge of this office would advise on the selection of contractors and
supervise their performance, and would coordinate infrastructure and public
building construction with the respective Federal or State agencies. The
office would manage the project, keep accounts, train settlers, and coordinate
harvesting and transportation of oil palm fruits to mills.
5.12      The area controller reports directly to the Deputy Director
General for Field Administration at headquarters, and maintains close con-
tact with the Agricultural Services Director on all agricultural matters.



- 20 -
A manager would be in charge of each 5,000 to 7,000 ac scheme and would be
supported by an assistant manager, about four field supervisors, and about
eight field assistants at full development on each scheme. FELDA experience
has shown this staffing plan appropriate and feasible in relation to the
present recruitment and training programs.
D. DARA
5.13      DARA (paras 2.13,2.14 and Annex 3) would be responsible for
the implementation of the urban infrastructure components of the project.
it also has overall responsibility for the detailed planning and implemen-
tation of the many other components of the Masterplan on which the proposed
project depends -- such as the construction of the access highways and the
development of the core of the Keratong town. DARA's main constraint at
present is its shortage of qualified staff.
Strengthening of DARA
5A14      The success of the urban development strategy will in large part
depend on the monitoring of economic activity by DARA, and appropriate
Lexibility to adapt the plan to several growth trends (see para 3.02 and
Annex 6). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DARA would make
available to the Bank information regarding the updating and implementation
of the Masterplan and the evaluation of economic programs in the region.
To ensure satisfactory project implementation a strengthening of DARA's staff
would be required (see Annex 3). At present, DARA has only about 15 manage-
ment and professional staff. It is estimated that, by the end of the Third
Malaysia Plan (1980), an additional 60-70 professionals would be required
to enable DARA to carry out its responsibilities. DARA is in the process
of revising its organizational structure and recruiting additional staff.
However, due to DARA's inability to offer sufficient incentives to qualified
local staff and the so far inadequate support from the Government to obtain
foreign staff, the recruitment effort has been lagging behind requirements.
rive key areas have been identified where experts are urgently
aeeded. They are: regional/urban economics, management/operations analysis,
social planning, engineering, and public finance. At least five experts
covering these fields should be hired for at least two years. They should
be integrated into DARA's organization in executive positions and should,
in addition to carrying out their planning tasks, help DARA with its staff
recruitment and development. Assurances were obtained that DARA would
recruit at least 5 experts, within 6 months of the signing of the loan
agreement. The Government expects to obtain financing for technical assistance,
including the above experts, from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), as part
of a loan for urban infrastructure development in Pahang Tenggara. Consulta-
tion between the Bank and ADB on project and regional development matters
will take place during the supervision of the proposed project.



- 21 -
Town Administration
5.16      Initially, DARA would be responsible for the administration of
Keratong town center, and FELDA for the scheme neighborhoods. However,
provisions would be made from the outset for the phased integration of town
administration under local self-government during the 1980's. Until such
time as local self-government is established, the legislation under which
DARA would administer Keratong provides for collection of taxes and user
charges from residents by DARA.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET-NG AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      For the proposed project, it is assumed that palms have a life
of 30 years. Harvesting begins in the fourth year after planting. Yield
estimates (Annex 11) are based on data available from other FELDA schemes
already in production in parts of Johore and South Pahang, where climatic
and soil conditions are similar and where the same type of planting material
has been used. Peak oil yields of 9.2 tons ffb per ac and an oil extraction
rate of 21% are projected in the sixth year of harvest. Kernel output is
4.2% of ffb production.
6.02      Total palm oil and kernel production from the project is estimated
to average about 90,000 tons of palm oil and 17,000 tons of kernel per year
during the mature period of the project, comprising the two decades between
1982 to 2001. Peak production would be reached in 1986. In that year
104,000 tons palm oil and 21,000 tons palm kernels would be produced.
B. Marketing and Prices
6.03      Settlers would se-_ their ifor to FELDA under a pricing formula
which enables FELDA to cover its costs fully (para 5.10, Annex 10, Table 6).
After processing, palm oil would be exported and kernels would be sold
locally for further processing as kernel oil and expeller cake.
6.04      Palm oil produced in Peninsular Malaysia is sold through a pool
operated by the Malaysian Palm Oil Producers' Association (MPOPA). An
exception is government-to-government sales, whiich F.1C (para 5.03) handles
exclusively on its own terms.  hembers of the NPOPA are mill owners.  The
larger companies own bulking instaliations which handle sales for their own
companies and for those mill owners who do not own bulking installations.
Proceeds from all sales are pooled and every member of the pool receives the



- 22 -
same price allowing for quality differences. Until June 1973, these
installations handled sales of palm oil from FELDA schemes since FELDA
production was relatively small. Along with construction of its own bulking
installations and in anticipation of its rapidly increasing sales, FMC has
established its own network of selling agents and brokers.
6.05      A recent study by the Bank's Commodities and Export Production
Division 1/ indicates that the export demand prospects for fats and oils,
including palm oil, up to 1980 and also in the following decade remain
favorable. Project output of palm oil would account for about 2.5% of
estimated world exports of palm oil in 1985. The Secretariat of the Inter-
governmental Group on Oil Seeds, Oils and Fats, has been informed of the
project and raised no objection. A price range of US$285 to US$315/ton
(cif Europe) in constant 1971 terms is projected for 1980 and thereafter.
The economic rate of return analysis of the project is based on a price of
US$300. All kernel output would be sold domestically.
C. Financial Results
Settlers
6.06      Participating settlers would benefit substantially under the
project. Most would be landless rubber tappers and casual workers (together
about 60% of all settlers), poor smallholders or largely unemployed urban
dwellers. Before joining the scheme they earn an average yearly income of
about M$ 850-900 which puts them in the lowest quintile of the income groups
in Malaysia. The average net settler income through the life of the project
after they go on the block system (i.e. five years after planting) is
estimated at about M$ 6,500/year (Annex 10, Table 6). This income level is
reasonable and in line with the government policy of bringing rural small-
holder incomes closer in line with urban incomes. However, in the light
of even brighter prospects for oil palm prices since appraisal FELDA will
review settlers returns regularly with a view to revising its cost recovery
policy (para 5.10).
FELDA
6.07      A projected cash flow is in Annex 8, Table 5.  It indicates that
annual deficits would occur until 1980. This would be met out of FELDA
reserves or by Government. After this surpluses would remain positive on
a cumulative basis.
1/  See, Price Forecasts for Major Primary  Commodities, Report No. 467,
June 19, 1974.



- 23 -
Government
6.08      A projected cash flow is in Annex 8, Table 6.  Revenues accruing
to Government from the project would be sufficient to repay its development
and operating costs under the project and to establish a cumulative surplus
of about M$ 100 (in constant 1974 prices) million by the end of the project
period. Cumulative deficit during project development would peak at M$ 83
million in 1981.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project forms a vital part of the development of the
Pahang Tenggara region. It would support Government plans to achieve high
rates of growth in smallholder agriculture by opening up new land for settle-
ment and reducing unemployment and underemployment. Settlers' average yearly
incomes would rise from about 870 (US$355) before they join the scheme to
about M$ 6,500 (US$2,650) after they finish loan repayments.
7.02      The project would contribute to the establishment of two urban
centers in the region, the largest of which will be the civic and commercial
center for the southwest subregion. These growth centers will help redirect
the rural-to-urban migration from a few large cities to medium-sized towns.
They will bring additional long term benefits to the settlers and their
dependents, who will face a broad range of employment opportunities when
the towns reach maturity. About 3800 full-time jobs would be provided
in the schemes and in the mills. During the development period, an average
of about 5000 workers would be directly employed. After the development
period, the growth of production and income would generate significant
induced employment, locally and in the region.
7.03      Settlement costs of US$16,900 per settler family are economically
justified. The growth of the Malaysian economy and the reduction of un- and
underemployment depends to a large extent on land development. Lower cost
schemes during the early 1960's have been less successful due to a lack
of sufficient long-term income incentives to settlers. Furthermore, under
Malaysian conditions, oil palm is an ideal crop to open up land because it
allows planting and cultivation on roughly prepared land with little if any
detriment to the soil. Clean clearing forest for pasture or annual cron}s
would be much more costly, but after the oil palms' useful life, land can
be easily replanted and converted to new crops.
7.04      The economic rate of return is estimated at 23%.  A 25% cost
overrun would reduce the rate of return to 19%. Details of the analysis are
in Annex 12. Major assumptions underlying the analysis include: (a) ex-
clusion from costs of water supply, school and health center construction
on the grounds that their benefits are excluded and would at least equal
costs; (b) a shadow wage for labor of M$2.90/day, equivalent to an average



- 24 -
yearly income of M$ 870/year, in line with the average income settlers earn
before joining FELDA, compared with M$ 3.50/day earned by casual non-skilled
labor working on FELDA schemes; (c) yields given in Annex 11; and (d) an
export price (cif Europe) of US$300/ton. This is the median price of the
range given in Bank commodity price projections. The rate of return calculated
without shadow pricing and assuming that real wage rates would rise by 3%
yearly, starting with an actual rate of M$ 3.50/day in 1973, would be 21%.
7.05      Most of the benefits of the project would accrue to settlers whose
present and expected future incomes are well below average Malaysian incomes.
The distributional impact of the project is therefore clearly favorable.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following main assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)  that the Government, within one year of the signing of the
Loan Agreement would:
fi) present for Bank review and comment a detailed action
program for the promotion and location of economic
activities in Keratong town and vicinity;
(ii) present a timetable for the establishment of Keratong
town as district headquarters;
(iii)  upon receipt of Bank comments on the action program,
review and, if necessary, reformulate the structural
plans for Keratong town prior to their becoming binding
upon FELDA and other government agencies engaged in the
implementation of the project (para 3.02);
(b)  that within one year of the signing of the Project Agreement
FELDA, in consultation with DARA, will have submitted a
detailed proposal for the arrangement of settler transport in
the project area, and that the responsibility for the
implementation of this proposal would be decided (para 3.03);
(c)  from the Goveriment that the construction schedule for the
access highway system to the project area would meet the
requirements of ?ELDA's development program, that the
highway connecting the pro-ec area with Segamat would be
completed by 1976 and that the Bahau Highway would be
constructed with an alignment which is in accordance with
the final structural plans for Keratong town;



- 25 -
(d) from Government that it shall take all necessary action to
ensure that in carrying out the project appropriate environ-
mental principles are fully observed (para 3.24);
(e) that FELDA would review the settler subsidy policy and
submit a proposal to the Bank prior to December 31, 1975
for comment.
(f) from the Government, that DARA's staff would be strengthened,
within six months of the signing of the loan agreement with
at least five experts with executive responsibilities (para
5.15).
8.02      The proposed project is economically and financially sound and, with
the assurances received is suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.0 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Federal Land Development Authority
Background
1.        The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) was created under
the Land Development Ordinance of 1956 to carry out land development and
settlement projects.
2.        From 1957 to 1960, FELDA allocated Federal funds to state corpora-
tions and land boards for federally approved land development schemes. In
the 15 schemes operated during the period, it exercised influence primarily
through its loan approving functions. However, it also experimented with
one direct management scheme with good results. Because of the difficulties
of coordinating the many State and Federal agencies involved in other
schemes overall progress on land development was slow. In 1960, new legis-
lation gave FELDA more control over land ownership and since then, FELDA
has been directly involved in planning and administration of land develop-
ment schemes. It has become the most important institutional instrument for
new land development and settlement in Malaysia.
Development Strategy
3.        FELDA agricultural development methods have much in common with
those of the private estate sector of the Malaysian agricultural industry
modified as necessary in the light of FELDA's own considerable experience.
These methods include extensive use of contractors to undertake the establish-
ment of the main crops, and of village site and processing facility construc-
tion, together with the employment of a management staff on all schemes to
ensure the effective organization of the settlers labor and maintain the
highest possible standards of crop production and processing.
4.        The scale and complexity of FELDA's operations call for a high
level of planning efficiency on the part of the Authority. It must super-
vise work of a large number o- co3ntractors and coordinate the supporting
activities of a wide range of pUbDc sector agencies. At the same time
it has to attend to its own steadily X-acreasing commitments in respect to
recruitment, training, and establisr  rt and operation of its schemes.
5.        As the scale of FELDA's operations has increased, so also has the
size of its average scheme, and the extent to which schemes are grouped
together for reasons of operational efficiency. The earliest schemes,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
established in the late fifties, were around 2,000 ac in size, but
with experience this has increased to between 5,000 and 7,000 ac at the
present time; equivalent to that of the larger estate units in the private
sector.
6.        In the early days it was usually possible to select sites suitable
for schemes in most states of West Malaysia, but within a few years almost
all the available and suitable land having convenient access within the
west coast states had been taken up, either by FELDA or by other public
and private sector agricultural organizations. By the mid-sixties FELDA
was, therefore, obliged by circumstances to concentrate its site selection
activities within the large region of relatively undeveloped but
agriculturally suitable land, with limited access, which occupies the
southeastern segment of Peninsular Malaysia. Several choice sites of
contiguous potential agricultural land suitable for tree crop establishment,
eacn 100,000 ac or more in extent, had been identified through surveys
wit-hin this large region of around 5 million ac, and FELDA obtained
a,;reement in principle from the State Governments concerned for development
of several of these tracts.
7.        The first such tract to be developed systematically as an area of
concentrated settlement was the Taib Andak Complex in the State of Johore.
This complex contains 5 schemes with an aggregate area of more than 21,000
planted ac of oil palm. In 1966 a more ambitious program of development
commenced in the Jengka Triangle portion of the State of Pahang, in co-
formity with a master plan prepared by a consortium of consultants. This
study, which recommended the cultivating of 93,000 ac of oil palm and rubber,
was partly financed by a Bank technical assistance grant and the development
is being partly financed by a succession of three Bank loans over the period
1967-1981.
8.        In 1969 and 1970 two further development planning studies were
commenced. They covered the Johore and Pahang Tenggara Regions, respect-
ively, which include the greater part of the southeast agricultural devel-
opment region referred to above (para 6). These, studies which were carried
out by consultants, were more comprehensive in scope and covered larger
areas of potential agricultural land than did the Jengka Triangle Study,
and they took account of the needs and capacities of other agricultural
interests besides FELDA. In recognition of the major contribution which
FELDA would make to the agricultural sector development in each of these
regions, special feasibility studies for large blocks of land previously
committed in principal to FELDA by the State Governments, were carried out
in both the Johore and Pahang Tenggara Regions. 1/
1/   The importance of FELDA's role in the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) period
is apparent from the fact that the Authority's target of 275,000 ac at
the start of the plan was raised to about 400,000 shortly after the
commencement of the plan, at which level it is equivalent to 40% of the
national target of 1 million ac of new land development during the SMP.
47,000 ac and 73,000 ac were developed by FELDA in the first and second
years of the plan, and 100,000 ac is being targeted for the current year,
to be followed by 90,000 ac in each of the final two years.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        FELDA schemes in these two projects differ from the earlier
Jengka project in the size of individual settler holdings. The increase
in the size of the holding from 10 to 14 acres is justified both by employ-
ment and income considerations. A 14-acre holding provides a reasonable
year round level of employment for one full-time laborer, whereas a 10-acre
holding leaves the settler underemployed. This would present an acute
problem in newly opened up areas with limited outside employment opportunities.
Also, a 14-acre holding is required to provide an income that is consistent
with the policy of bringing rural smallholder incomes closer in line with
urban incomes.
Settlement Schemes and Production
10.       The more recent FELDA schemes cover 4,000-5,000 ac.  With the in-
troduction of urbanization into FELDA schemes in 1972 (para 5), the size
per scheme has increased up to a maximum of 7,000 ac. Rights to the land are
agreed with the relevant state government. Premium and rent charges are
usually waived until the land comes into production. Clearing, planting and
early maintenance are performed under contract, and settlers are brought in
when the basic infrastructure has been completed, generally in the fourth
year. Settlers are chosen on the basis of such criteria as age, experience,
physical health, marital status and amount of land previously owned (see
Annex 9). They are employed on their own holding or in other jobs and are
guaranteed a minimum subsistence allowance. This and other development costs
are charged to the settlerts loan account. Repayment begins about two years
after the crop comes into production when income, net of repayment of loan,
is about M$ 125/month. Repayment is deducted from the value of produce,
which must be sold through the Authority. The total loan which the settler
must repay, including interest at 6-1/4% for a 14 ac oil palm holding, is
about M$ 23,500. The cost of settlement per family, excluding social costs
(roads, water supply and public buildings) would be US$16,900. Including
social cost it would amount to US$19,400.
11.       The FELDA planting target for the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) was
initially set at 275,000 ac (55,000 ac/year). While there has been a delay
in the first year, planting has accelerated and it is expected that about
125,000 ac more than originally targeted will be planted by the end of the
Plan. In 1975, on termination of the SMP, FELDA clearing and planting
operations for rubber and oil palm are projected to be reduced to about
50,000-60,000 ac yearly while other organizations would carry a heavier
load of land development.
12.       Output of FELDA palm oil, which was comparatively small during
the 1960's when most of the planted area was still iimmature, is expected
to increase by about 24% yearly from 1971 to 1985. Of the total Malaysian
supply of palm oil in 1985, FELDA output is expected to account for about
one-third. Past achievements and expected future developments of FELDA's
oil palm and rubber development are indicated in the attached table.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       By the end of 1973, FELDA had 11 palm oil mills with a total
capacity of 344 tons ffb/hour in operation. Sixteen additional oil palm
mills with a total capacity of 693 tons ffb/hour are to be constructed
during the remainder of the decade. Their capacity, together with an
extension in capacity of the existing mills, will raise total FELDA oil
mill capacity to about 1,100 tons ffb/hour by 1980/81. For the export
of palm oil in bulk, FELDA is constructing or expanding facilities at
Port Klang, Tanjong Gelang (Kuantan) and Pasir &udang. Total capacity of
these installations is expected to be 75,000 tons by 1976. At the end of
1973, three rubber factories with a total capacity of 90 tons/day were in
operation. Capacity expansion is not envisaged since Government has decided
that rubber processing of non-private rubber from public sector schemes
should be the responsibility of the Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
(MRDC).
14.       The expansion of physical plant and land development was accom-
panied by an expansion of public amenities. The following table shows
acl2ievements until the end of 1973:
Public Infrastructure In
FELDA Schemes
Items                    Until 1972       In 1973       Total
Access Road (Miles)                   328.35           22.0       350.35
Village Road (Miles)                  536.15           62.0       598.15
Water Supply                           77               6          83
School (Primary/Secondary)             73              11          84
Clinic                                 68               9          77
Community Centre                       76               7          83
Public Playground                      29               2          31
Mosque                                 60               6          66
Public Telephone                       46               -          46
Postal Agency                          60                          60
Mobile Post Office                     54              -           54
Felda Shop                             66             17           83
Police Post                            38               -          38
Bus Service                            42              -           42
15.       Despite these achievements) FELDA's progress has not been entirely
satisfactory. Particularly noticeable have been delays in settler intake.
These were partly caused by delays in preparatory work, such as the provision



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of roads and housing, which resulted from contract delays rising out of:
(a) the employment of less experienced contractors in an attempt to achieve
a more balanced ethnic distribution of contracts (most of the contractors
are Chinese); (b) difficulties in obtaining timber supplies for house con-
struction; and (c) difficulty in recruiting skilled workers at the remote
locations where FELDA schemes are sited to an increasing degree. Part of
the delay was also due to unrealistic planning, assuming that settlers would
move on to schemes about one year after planting. Experience has shown that
this is not possible owing to the logistic of the infrastructure program and
the target time has now been extended to 18 months.
16.       In the past, there have also been social problems on the schemes
because there was little involvement of settlers in scheme administration
and because of inadequate alternative employment opportunities. A Settler
Development Division which was formed in 1972 is improving the social
situation and FELDA management is now setting aside land on schemes to be
managed on an estate basis to supply additional employment opportunities.
The increased size of settlements (see Annex 6) would also provide alterna-
tive, non-agricultural employment opportunities.
Organization and Management of FELDA Headcuarters
17.       FELDA operates as a quasi-autonomous government agency under the
Ministry of National and Rural Development. It is given wide autonomy for
day to day administration. Operating policy is set and overall supervision
handled by a Board consisting of 12 members, which includes representatives
of the public and private sectors. The Director General, FELDA's chief
executive, is a member of the Board. He has been in this post since 1965
and is a career civil servant.
18.       FELDA's organization has been modified over the last two years
to adjust to its expanding responsibilities. A major objective has been
decentralization.  The present structure, which was introduced in July 1973,
is shown in the attached chart. This structure is-based on recommendations
of a reorganization study conducted by a consulting firm, Public Administrative
Service (PAS) of Chicago. That study proposed to install only one Deputy
Director-General, namely for field admini'stration. However, after one year
of operation under the originally pro?vsed structure, it turned out that the
supervisory function left to the DTirac&or-General, which included everything
except those areas of responsibilitias left to field administration (as
indicated in the chart), was too heavy. Consecuently another Deputy Director
General post, for technical services, was established to ease the workload
on the Director General.
19.       The main features o- the orgarization and management structure
are:
(a)  the Director General of FELDA is the main executive officer
rather than as in the past the Chairman of the Board. He



ANNEX 1
Page 6
is accountable to the Chairman of the Board regarding matters
of administrative management and to the Board for the overall
conduct of FELDA affairs. His main functions include planning
and supervising departmental operations, directing the pre-
paration of long range plans and maintaining liaison with
external agencies and the general public. The directors for
finance, marketing, management services, and research report
directly to him;
(b) the Deputy Director-General for Field Administration has the
responsibility of supervising and coordinating all agricul-
tural and social services at headquarters and the area con-
trollers' offices in the field;
(c) the Deputy Director-General for Technical Services has the
responsibility of supervising and coordinating activities of
the Budget and Planning, Projects, and Processing Departments;
(d) the Budget and Planning Department analyzes and approves
budget proposals submitted by the area controllers through
the Field Administration Department and formulates future
policies and plans. It schedules and conducts budget hear-
ings and develops and administers internal operating and
control procedures;
(e) the Processing Department manages directly all industrial
plant and equipment while the Project Department does the
same for all agricultural plant and equipment;
(f) the Finance Department has authority over the accounts,
treasury, systems and pre-audit division. It plans,
organizes and directs the activities of these divisions.
One of its major functions is the collection and analysis
of fiscal, budget and cost control reports; and
(g) the Management Services Department is responsible for staff-
ing and training, and general services and coordinates
procurement with engineering.
20.       In 1972, a new FELDA subsidiary, the FELDA Stores Corporation
(FSC) was established and took over the retailing activities handled previously
by the FELDA Shops Division. Fifty-one percent of the equity in FSC is
retained by FELDA and the balance is for issue to settler cooperatives. The
FSC is administered by a Board under a separate constitution and employees
are directly employed by the FSC. The Director-General of FELDA is the
Chairman of the FSC.  SimilarLy, a FELDA Marketing Corporation (FMC),
established in late 1973, operates indenendently under the Director General's
chairmanship. Apart from its usual marketing functions, it handles all



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Government sales contracts, yet is incorporated under company law and is
not accountable to Government agencies. This guarantees a certain confidentiality
in customer-seller relationships which is necessary in marketing. Further,
salaries of the Corporation are not subject to Government salary scales which
enables the Corporation to pay salaries competitive with private industry.
Staffing and Training
21.       At the end of 1972, FELDA had a staff of 3,223 allocated as
follows:
Executive, administrative and professional             423
Supervisory, clerical, fiscal and stores               714
Field operations and research                        1,523
Mill operation and maintenance                         421
Custodial, building, maintenance and labor             142
3,223
This staff (excluding labor) is quite young, the average age being 33 with
90% of staff members under 40. Required expansion of the staff is supported
by a vigorous training program.  FELDA will need about 120 area and scheme
managers and assistant managers by 1975. It is now recruiting yearly about
30 graduates of the Serdang School of Agriculture, who receive one year of
training as assistant scheme managers before becoming scheme managers.
22.       A separate training division is responsible for training of FELDA
staff and settlers. The formal staff training is carried out at five training
schools and two centers where a one-year introductory course in field practices
and general administration is given to trainee field assistants. In addition,
in-service training courses are run at the two centers.
23.       The 1972 intake amounted to 380 trainees, which is the largest
annual intake to date. After allowing for a dropout rate of 5%, the out-turn
in 1973 and 1974 should be sufficient to meet the demand for field assistants
on the 100,000 ac of new land develoDment scheduled for each of these years,
at the rate of one field assistant to each 500 ac, and also provide replace-
ments to fill vacancies on existing scnemes caused by resignations, promotions,
and staff retirements. The out-turn is likely to remain at this level at
least for the next year or two. The course includes four months' theoretical
instruction in both rubber and oil palm, followed by a one-month settler
development and scheme administration period of classroom instruction, and
finishes with three months of practical instruction on a neighboring FELDA
scheme.
24.       Each school has a -nermanent staff Gf two and each center has three
agricultural diploma holders, while instructional support is given by FELDA
regional offices and scheme  c_aff.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
25.       In-service staff training courses are usually between two or
three days and two weeks in duration, and cover a variety of specialized
subjects such as oil palm nursery operation or are designed as refresher
courses intended to acquaint the staff with new techniques.
26.       Settler training is given on the schemes and commences as on-the-
job instruction imparted by the scheme management staff from the moment
the settlers take over the maintenance of the crop from the planting con-
tractors. Settlers on rubber schemes are also given an intensive six months'
course on tapping a few months before their lots are ready for opening.
The course, which is attended by every settler, includes lectures and
demonstrations presented with the aid of Rubber Research Institute exten-
sion service staff, and practical experience gained on the tree in an area
of land designated as a training area.
27.       In the case of oil palm schemes, where 20 settlers working as
a group under an elected leader are jointly responsible for the harvesting
of their fruits, the block leaders are given a one week course in the
operation of the system one month before the system is introduced at the
start of the fourth year in harvest. Prior to this, the settlers and their
aependants carry out their maintenance and harvesting tasks under the direct
supervision of the FELDA field staff, during which time particular attention
is given to explaining the how and why of the several specialized tasks -
weeding, polinating, pruning, manuring, and harvesting especially - all of
which are so important to the optimum growth and yield of the palms.
Finances
28.       The main sources of finance for FELDA are: Federal Government
budget allocations; IBRD loans for the three Jengka and the Johore Tenggara
projects (US$92 million) and an Asian Development Bank loan of US$8.4 million
for the construction of two palm oil mills.
29.       Government budget allocations are made annually to FELDA:
(a) as loans for relending to settlers to cover the cost of
agricultural development, housing, house lots and settler
subsistence, bearing nominal interest of 5-1/2% with re-
payment periods of 25 years including a grace period of
ten years.  During this grace period, no interest is charged
during the first five years and only simple interest of
5-1/2% during the remaining five years. These orocedures
reduce the nominal rate of5-J/2% to an effective rate of
3.8%.  The total of Government loans received by the end
of 1972 was M$ 376.3 milEion, of which M$ 75 million
was received in 1972. Loan repayments by the end of 1972
amounted to M$ 4.6 million, of which M$ 2.3 million was
interest; and
(b) as grants for FELDA's administrative expenses, which were
budgeted at M$ 25 million in 1972.  A total of M$ 136.9 mil-
lion has been received so far.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
30.       Up to the present, FELDA has never experienced budgetary con-
straints, and as far as can be seen, this situation should prevail in the
future given Government's priority to land settlement schemes and its
favorable budgetary position.
31.       In 1972, FELDA submitted to Government a plan to reduce loan
repayments made by its rubber smallholders. This proposal has in view of
rubber price declines on the world market during the 1960's, which made it
more difficult or impossible for many smallholders to repay their loans in
full. The proposed basis for repayment is a fixed amount per acre per year
which would increase with the size of the holding and a reduction in the
interest for settlers' loans from 6-1/4% to 4%. This system would permit net
annual family incomes of M$ 125 a month, assuming a cif first quality rubber
price of M$ 0.44/lb. However, with the revaluation of the Malaysian dollar
and no corresponding increase in rubber price projections, the long-term
rubber price is more likely to be M$ 0.40/lb. This would not make the
M$ 125/month income target feasible. The situation is presently being
reviewed by Government and FELDA.
32.       Agricultural development costs such as land clearing, planting
and initial upkeep as well as housing and office construction costs are
fairly well standardized. Cost for these items have been increasing, but
not as much as the costs of road construction, village site preparation,
water supply and most importantly, general administration.
Accounts and Audit
33.       FELDA's accounts are of two main types:  grant and loan, cor-
responding to the two types of financing it receives from Government
(para 28). Up to now administrative accounts have been consolidated for
the whole of FELDA, but in future accounts will be kept at both individual
scheme and headquarter levels. The loan account is a consolidation of all
costs charged to schemes. Separate accounts are kept for each scheme.
34.       FELDA's accounting organization and procedures failed to keep
pace with its rapid expansion and divers-ification, and for this reason
FELDA appointed the firm of Public Admi-nistrative Services (PAS) of Chicago
to carry out a study of its general ancd :irancial administration.  Based on
PAS's recommendations, the Finance Department has been reorganized.
35.       Within the Finance Department, and under the new arrangement,
the Treasurer will be responsible for keeping a strict cash control, register
cash movements, and forecast cash inflows and outflows based on operations
and on recommended short-term cash investments.  The Treasurer began making
four-month cash flow projections in September 1972.
36.       The Systems Division within the Finance Department has responsibil-
ity for field accounting; introducing accounting procedures adapted to
computers; and training staf'Lf in accounting and bookkeeping.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
37.       The Operations Division within the Finance Department pre-audits
and controls accounts. It has begun data processing programming and is
revising its financial management system. It is responsible for financial
planning and for financial policy recommendations to the Director General.
38.       The main problems of the Finance Department are:
(a) inadequate staff - a more vigorous recruitment and training
effort has to be made, especially of accountants and systems
analysts, and of area controllers and managers, to permit
further decentralization of account processing;
(b) new accounting systems have to be devised for new operations,
such as the recently started sugar cane complex; and
(c) inventory control requires additional training of staff at
lower levels.
39.       The computerized financial control system, as designed bv PAS, is
now being implemented. Operations of the payroll and settler accounts are
successful, but the final results of the computer analysis of the 1972 finan-
cial statements, including those for the Jengka projects, which wTere scheduled
to be finalized by June 1973, are still not available. The major reasons
for this delay are difficulties in balancing 1972 accounts and the considerable
time lags spent "debugging" operations. The experiences gained so far indicate
that the new system will be of great value in streamlining FELDA financial
operations. In particular, it will force all departments not only to provide
m,ore accurate data collection and compilation, but it demands a high degree
of coordination among the various departments involved in the financial
reporting system, a coordination which has been missing in the past. However,
although there is every indication that the introduction of the new system
is going to be successful, the final proof will not be obtained until the
1972 financial statements are out. If the system fails, FELDA's financial
organization will be in severe trouble, since the previous manual system has
been discontinued and cannot be reinstated at short notice. Because of this,
it will be prudent to insist on audited 1973 finnancial accounts, and their
receipt, as well as the receipt of the 1972 audited accounts, would be a
condition of Board presentation.
Size of Settler Holding
40.       In the 18 years since FELDA became operational, the house lot has
remained at a quarter acre', but there has been a progressive increase in the
size of the agricultural plot allocated to settlers. On the earliest schemes,
these plots, 6 ac in extent, were all planted to rubber, while an additional
2 ac plot, intended for dusun (orchard) development was set aside in a separate
part of these early schemes. Eventually, the dusun lots were planted to
rubber, thus raising the area of commercial crop per settler to 8 ac. In the
mid-sixties, this figure was furtner raised to 10 ac, as in the case of the
Jengka Triangle Projects.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
41.       The first oil palm schemes, started in the early sixties, began
with 8 ac and were later increased to 10 ac by the planting of the dusun
reserves to oil palm, analogous to the early rubber schemes. Subsequently,
10 ac unit holdings were allocated to oil palm settlers, including those
in the Jengka Triangle Projects.
42.       More recently, after reviewing the income and employment status
of FELDA settlers, the Government of Malaysia has increased the land alloca-
tions for settlers on all new schemes to 12 and 14 ac for rubber and oil
palm holdings respectively. This further increase, which aims to provide
a fuller measure of employment for the settler and his family and to increase
his income after repayment to a level commensurate with that in the urban
sector, is in compliance with the NEP, which aims at reducing the income
disparity between rural and urban occupations.
43.       Oil palm settlers with 14 ac holdings will earn net average
yearly incomes of about M$ 7,000 during the life of the project. Employ-
ment needs of the family are, however, not so well satisfied in spite of
the larger holding and the provision of alternate employment opportunities
will continue to be a more pressing problem on FELDA oil palm schemes as
the younger members of the settler families reach working age.






MALAYSIA
KERATONG SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Past and Projected FELDA Area and Production of Rubber, Oil Palm, Sugar and Cocoa
Planted Area ('000 Acres)                        Production ('000 m.tons)                          Families
Rubber    Oil Palm    Sugar    Cocoa   Total            Palm Oil      Palm Kernel    Rubber               Settled ('OO)
Actual
1957-63                    71           9                            80                                           10.2                   6.4
1964-70                    77          151                          228             64.3          13.0            42.6                  14.3
1971                       19           28                           47             34.1           7.1            29,3                   2.3
1972                       21           50         2                 73             62.8          11,2            35.8                   2.9
1973                       31           69         3                103             91.5          17.4            41.2                   2.1
219         307         5                531                                                                 28.0
Projection
1974                       14           77         4         1       96            153.9          36.0             59.0                  4.0
1975                       29           72         1         1      103            235.0          47.0            67.3                   5.7
Total during
SMAP (1971-75)            114          296        10         2      422             577.3        118.7            232.6                 17.0
Matured
1980                      219          456        10         5      690            501            95              132
1985                      307          681        10         7     1005            797           161              179
*  assumes after 1975 15,000 acres of rubber per year
and 45,000 acres of oil palm per year.                                                                                                  El
3ource: Mission and FELDA estimates






ANNEX 1
Chart 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
FELDA ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF LAND DEVELOPMENT AND SPECIAL FUNCTIONS   l
CHAIRMAN AND BOARD OF THE AUTHORITY
DEPUTYRECTOREIRELERA                                                                                 D
|FIELDADMINISTRAN)                       ING CORPORATION         STORES CORPORATIO                              TECHNIC  S     ES)
DIRECTOR OF             HEAD OF SOCIAL            DIRECTOR                  INTERNAL                 DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR             DIRECTOR
AGRICULTURAL            DEELPMNTFINANCE                                     AUDIT                    PROJ ECTS                PROCESSING          BUDGET&PLANNING
SERVICES                SERVICES
DIRECTOR                 DIRECTOR
PERSONNEL &              MANAGEMENT
TRAINING                 SERVICES
AREA CONTROLLER          AREACONTROLLER                                                                            RUBBER                   PALM
EAST                    NORTH                                                                                      FACTORIES                OIL MILLS
AREA CONTROLLER         AREA CONTROLLER
JENGKA                  CENTRAL
|AREA CONTROLLER          AREA CONTROLLER
|WEST PAHANG            SOUTR
AREACENTRAL FAHANGEr    AREA CONTROLLER |
CENTRALPRAHANG           EATN
WorSd B-ok-BS62






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplan
1.        During the course of the First Malaysia Plan (1966-1970) the
Government of Malaysia undertook a comprehensive analysis of the natural
resources and land use of Peninsular Malaysia and to plan the optimum use
of these resources. Several large areas of undeveloped land with consider-
able potential for development were identified in various parts of the
country, including the Pahang Tenggara Region in the southern part of the
state of Pahang (see Map).
2.        This region, with extensive areas of good soil and moderate relief,
was found to have an especially promising potential for agricultural devel-
opment, together with considerable commercial forestry opportunities which
partly overlapped with the potential agricultural areas, and partly lay on
land unsuitable for agriculture and deserving of permanent retention as
productive forest reserves. Other areas were considered worthy of preserva-
tion in their natural state as wildlife and nature preservation-cum-recreation
reserves, in which case they would also serve a vital watershed conservation
role. Some possibilities for mining, mainly of tin and base metal ores, were
also identified. The extent and overall quality of these resources, which
comprise the largest contiguous area of forested land suitable for other
types of sectoral development, including agricultural and urban settlement,
in West Malaysia, caused the Government of Malaysia to declare the region a
high priority area for development commencing in the Second Malaysia Plan
(1971-1975).
3.        A consortium of Canadian planning consultants, led by Foundation
of Canada Engineering Corporation Limited, 1/ was commissioned to survey
and study the area in greater depth and to draw up a plan for development
of the region. The resultant Master Plan was completed in 1972, after two
years study which included soil and terrain surveys and forest inventories,
and intensive hydrological, ecological and geological analyses. The
physical resource studies were complemented by a sociological study which
included field surveys of rural Malays, who were expected to comprise the
greater portion of the new settlement population.
1/   The other consultant firms were van Ginkei. Associates Ltd., S. G. Gardiner
Engineering Services, Ltd., and Charnel! International Consultants Ltd.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The above information, together with economic data mainly from
official sources, provided the background against which the economic and
social development Master Plan was prepared and is now being implemented.
This plan recommended the progressive development between 1971 and 1990 of
533,000 acres to sustained yield agriculture, mainly oil palm and rubber
but including various new agricultural activities. This is in addition to
the 439,000 acres allocated prior to the commencement of the study and now
being developed, and to two integrated logging and timber processing complexes
on two large contiguous blocks of lowland forest, each in excess of 100,000
acres, to be exploited on a sustained yield basis.
5.        The plan calls for development of a major regional center, likely
to have a population approaching 70,000 by 1990, and up to 37 smaller settle-
ments (see Annex 6), linked by a new road network comprising about 355 miles.
A program for the development of local resource-based secondary economic
activities is also proposed and would help in achieving the urban and regional
development objectives of the Master Plan.
6.        Careful consideration has been given to conservation needs within
the region, and several nature resources, permanent protective forest reserves,
and recreation zones, together with a new National Park covering 85,000 acres,
are incorporated in the iaster Plan. The Pahang Tenggara Development
Authority (see Annex 3) is responsible for effective enforcement of the
environmental controls whereby the adverse effects of development on the
ecological equilibrium are reduced to a level compatible with scientific,
aesthetic and anti-pollution requirements.
7.        FELDA has been charged with responsibility for developing about
one third of the agricultural land proposed for development in the Master
Plan, concentrated in three large blocks, each about 50,000 acres in extent,
including the Keratong project area in which development is already pro-
ceeding. These three areas are in addition to two others, namely Mentiga
in the northeast and Sungai Bera in the northwest, where FELDA development
started before the Master Plan was prepared.
8.        Implementation of the Master Plan will have favorable effects on
employment, and economic growth and reduce regional as well as inter-sector
disparities of incomes. Total public sector development expenditure for
agricultural and forestry development, roads and bridges, water supplies,
posts and telecommunications, schools, health and other social services
during the 19-year period from 1972-90 will be about M$ 1,000 million, of
which about M$ 400 million would be FELDA expenditures.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IMALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
1.        The Master Plan for the Pahang Tenggara region was completed by
the consultants in July, 1972 (see Annex 2). In June, 1972, the Prime
Minister gave instructions that the implementation of the Plan was to commence
immediately under the responsibility of the Pahang Tenggara Development
Authority (DARA). Similar implementing authorities had been set up earlier
in other regions, including the Jengka Development Corporation and the
Johore Tenggara Development Authority.
Legislation
2.        According to the legislation establishing DARA (Lembaga Kemajuan
Pahang Tenggara Act, 1972), its functions are:
"(a) to promote, stimulate, facilitate and undertake
economic and social development in Pahang Tenggara;
(b) to promote, stimulate, facilitate and undertake'
residential, agricultural, industrial and commercial
development in Pahang Tenggara; and
(c) to control and co-ordinate the performance of the afore-
said activities in Pahang Tenggara."
3.        To discharge of its functions, DARA has been given wide powers to
implement and monitor development activity in the region, including the
establishment of its own manufacturing or processing plants. It can enter
into joint ventures with any agency or corporation, public or private, domestic
or foreign. It can establish local puDlic bodies, and it can impose charges
for the provision of public services.
4.        The Board of the Authority gives overall policy guidance.  It
consists of the following seven members, all appointed by the Federal Prime
Minister:
(a) a Chairman;
(b) a Deputy Chairman,
(c) two representatives of the Federal Government, and
(d) three representatives of the State of Pahang.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
The Board is directly responsible to the Prime Mlinister, who also is empowered
to give his own directions to the Board. A General Manager acts as the chief
executive officer -- he is appointed by the Board, after the approval of the
Prime Minister. The present General Manager was appointed in March, 1972.
Financing
5.        The consultants estimated the total public sector costs for the
development of Pahang Tenggara at about M$ 930 million (in constant 1971
prices) through 1990 1/ -- M$ 350 million during the Second Malaysia Plan
(SMP) period (1971-75), M$ 330 million during the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP)
period (1976-80), and the remaining MS 250 million during the 1980's. A
substantial portion of these costs will be borne by public agencies other than
DARA, more than one third by FELDA.
6.        Table 1 summarizes the SMP and T1M  budget proposals prepared by
TARA for the mid-term review of the SNP. About M$ 200 million was budgeted
for -he SMP and the same amount for the TIP. During the SNT, most of the
expenditures (about M$ 100 million) would be for regional water supply
systems arnd roads, whereas expenditures for urban development (M$ 150 mil-
lion) would dominate during the TMP. However, the Government has as a
result of its mid-term review of the SMP allocated less than requested by
DARA for the remaining two years of the SMP. Due to staff constraints,
DARA's ability to expand its operations is limited at the present (see para 10)
and it is unlikely that DARA would have been able to achieve the target for
1974-75 set in its original budget proposal.
7.        DARA receives funds for infrastructure development in the form of
grants from the Federal Government. These funds are budgeted by DARA but
expended by the Federal Public Works Department (PWD), which carries out the
planning and construction for DARA. Investments in regional commercial
ventures are financed through Government loans. So far, all such investments
have been joint ventures with private interests (for timber processing com-
plexes, a beef cattle ranch, and a tea estate).
implementation of the Master Plan
;S.       The implementation schedule prepared by the masterplanning con-
sultants was unrealistic. It envisaged, for instance, that during the SE?P
; new towns would be planned and developed, 81 miles of primarv and 211 miles
of secondary roads would be engineered and built, and that 5 water supply
schemes would be completed with a capacity of nearly 20 million gallons of
water per day. The actual implementation is already much behind this schedule
and further slippage can be expected. Among the major reasons for this delay
are:
_/  Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplanning Study -- The Masterplan, p. 67.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) time is required to translate the comprehensive
Master Plan (12 major volumes) into decisions by the
Government and implementing agencies; and
(b) given the shortage of the critical professional skills
required to implement the Master Plan, substantial time
is required to staff implementing agencies, mainly DARA.
9.        A potentially more serious aspect of the implementation of the
Master Plan than the slippage is the lack of a continuous review and
up-dating of the Plan. Many of the assumptions of the Plan rest on an
insufficient information base. It is crucial for the success of the Plan
that they be reviewed. In particular, a substantial immigration to Pahang
Tenggara from other regions has been assumed, amounting to 20,000-25,000
persons per year through the early 1980's, coupled with the attraction to
the region of non-resource based manufacturing and service activities. Plans
have been and are being prepared for other regions, based on similar independent
and often conflicting assumptions. An integrated review of these plans is
now being undertaken by the Economic Planning Unit, and should prove useful
for up-dating the Plan.
Strengthening of DARA
10.       To review and up-date the Master Plan and to ensure its satisfactory
implementation, including the proposed project, DARA would need a substantial
strengthening of its staff. DARA is presently in the process of revising
its organizational structure and is also making a major effort to recruit
additional staff. The new organization is shown in the attached Chart. At
present DARA has only about 15 management and professional staff but would
need an additional 60-70 professionals by the end of the TMP to carry out
its functions properly.
11.       Six areas have been identified where DARA needs immediate additional
expertise:
(a) regional/urban economics,
(b) management/operations analysis,
(c) social planning,
(d) engineering,
(e) public finance, and
(f) urban planning. -
1/ A qualified urban planner has recently been obtained through the
Overseas Development Agency (UK).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
An expert should be hired in each of these fields as soon as possible. Each
should be integrated into DARA's organization in operational and executive
positions. Funds should also be made available to allow DARA to hire addi-
tional short term specialists with particular assignments within these fields.
Outline terms of reference for the five experts have been discussed with
the Government, DARA, and ADB, and were agreed upon.
12.       Technical assistance is not included in the proposed project.  The
Government expects to obtain the necessary funds from the Asian Development
Bank (ADB). ADB has been closely involved with DARA since early 1973 when
the Government asked them to finance a major portion of DARA's regional and
urban infrastructure development program through 1980. During 1973, four ADB
missions visited DARA, and an appraisal mission is scheduled for July, 1974.
Mutual consultation between the Bank and ADB on the project and regional
development matters will take place during supervision of the proposed
project.



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
DARA Budget Proposal for the Second and
Third Malaysia Plan Periods
Expenditures (M$ 000)                               Major
Total, SMP Total, TMP    source of
1972     1973      1974       1975    1972-75   1976-80        financing
<-.actual_;  -------estimated-----    G
Government
Administration                      1,000    2,000    4,385       5,840      13,225      20,000     Grants to DARA
Urban Development                     115    1,875   17,010    45,655        64,655    151,525      Government
(planning, engineering,                                                                          Grants to DARA
clearing, infrastructure)
Site Development for Public           -         745    2,445      2,385       5,575         635     Covernment
Buildings                                                                                        Grants to DARA
Regional DevelopmentL.L                                                                             Government
Water Supply                       -         100    5,630    14,720       20,450      21,530     Grants
Roads                              -         500   46,770    38,395      85,665        7,470   ) to PWD
Joint Venture Investments             -          -    16,570      8,600      25,170       2,600     Government Loans
C___._.__         |      to   DARA
Total                               1,115    5,220   92,810   115,595    214,740    203,760
Source: Review of the Second Malaysia Plan 1971-75, Lembaga Kemajuan
Pahang Tenggara; and mission estimates.
/1  These expendittLires are budgeted by DARA, for the Public Works Department.                                               x
H w~






MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
DARA Organization Chart                                                                                       32art 2
PRIME MINISTER
I             
CHAIRMAN AND
BOARD OF THE AUTHORITY
I
GENERAL MANAGER
I  DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER                                                                         DEPUTAL Y     0NN
IADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING)
DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR
ADMINISTRATION          PLANNING AND                LAND              LOCAL GOVERNMENT          INVESTMENT AND           TRAINING AND             TECHNICAL
AND FINANCE             MONITORING            ADMINISTRATION           ADM NISTRATION       NDUSTRIAL PROMOTION          MANPOWER                 SERVICES
j PERSONNEL AND         CUSTODIAN|OF           ALLOCATION o~         PUBLIC BERVICES                    N                RECEPTIN
OFFICE   ~ ~ ~~CSOIIN 1(REFUSE COLLECTION,F  RECRUITMENT                                                                                    SURVEYING
0                ~~~~~~MASTE RPLAN       LADRSUCS              SEWERAGE, ETC.)            ACIITE
ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                           CETERS
I7MPLICATIONS OF  I        PROCESSING OF         ENFORCEMENT OF            INVESTNT                TRAINING AND
ACCOUNTING           DEPARTURES                LAND TITLE    I        BUILDING                   NCE                   MANPOWER                 LANDSCAPING
IFROM MASTERPLAN         APPLICATIONS           REGULATIONS               INETVSDEVELOPMENT
AND SANITATION
AND HEALTH                                                             GIEIE  O
REGULATIONS           FEVALUATION OF          FINCENTIVES-             GIEIE  O
q   PROCUREMENT  I    -| EVALUATION OF   I    -|   MINING     I       ANO HEALTH      I   q   PROPOSALS AND             HOUS INGENTIVES    I  | AND  REVIEW OF
ALL ON-GOING WORK  OPERATION                     APPLICATIONS            ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~CONTRCTION  PLANNIN GAND
ENGINEERING WORK.
SUPER VISION OF
j   STORE                RE| SPEARCHF C    |     LAND USE    I   j   COLLECTION OP  I   |   IDENTIFICATION             SMALL BUSINESS         CONSTRUCIOND
MANAGEMENT               PROJECTS                CONTROL               TAXES AND FEES          OF PROJECTS             DEVELOPMENT            PROVISION OFN
MANAGEIIINT  I'F CIE 'TS                                    OF    ECTS                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOUSING AND
SHOPPING
GAZETTING OF LANDI      MAINTENANCE OF                                    MONITORING Or         FACILITIES
z   MANAGEMENT           MID-TERM            RESERVES AND             ROADS, AND OTHER           FEASIBILITY           SOCIAL
OTHER LAND USES         PUBLIC LAND                                       TRANSITION
AND OTHER                                       STREET LIGHTING
PUBLICATIONS             AUITONESTATES
CUSTOD.IAN OF
LIAISON WITH             D | AR LAND                                   FACTORY BUILDING
OTHER AGENCIES           OWNERSHIP
|-MONITORING OF          LAND SALES,
PROJECTS AND             LEASES AND                                    JOINT VENTURES
REPORTING               MORTAGES
FINANCIAL    I        POLICY STUDIES ON I
PLANNING AND  I       LAND OWNERSHIP  I
CONTROL                O RS AND LANG
TAXE
X    FORESTRY  I
MANAGEMENT I
World B8=ESB7B76R)






ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Ecology
1.        During the preparation of the Master Plan for Pahang Tenggara (see
Annex 3, special attention was given to assessing the impact which develop-
ment will have on the ecological conditions of the region, and of conserva-
tion needs associated with this development. The plan took into account
the need for conserving representative examples of indigenous flora and fauna,
wilderness and scenic landscape, in the form of nature reserves and national
parks. The areas proposed include two natural bodies of freshwater, one
of which supports a biological community unique within Malaysia and probably
in the world. Both these areas will be preserved as nature reserves for
scientific and educational purposes, and partly for recreational use. Like-
wise, a 1,500 ac forest reserve containing an unusual variety of forest types
on a succession of raised beaches and swamps will be preserved within a
larger area along the east coast which has been set aside as a tourism zone.
85,000 ac of mountainous land on the south side of the region will be
developed as a national park. This, together with the retention of more than
one million acres of productive and protective forest, should ensure the
preservation of the many species of indigenous animals.
3.        The depth and range of analysis and survey of the more important
ecologic factors--climate, topography, soil, forestry, geology, vegetation,
wild life, and water--coupled with the close attention given to conservation
and pollution aspects of development in the master plan, are indicative of
the Malaysian Government's concern for the problem of maintaining a satis-
factory ecologic balance within the region. Rigorous enforcement of the
conservation and pollution regulations, including a prohibition on cultivation
of slopes above 200 in accordance with the Malaysian conservation enactment,
backed up by continuous monitoring of the situation by DARA during the 20 year
development period should ensure that the Pahang Tenggara region becomes
a model of multiple land use in accord with sound conservation concepts.
4.        Careful site selection, with special attention given to suitability
of topography soil and drainage, both for the main commercial tree crop areas
and for settler residential areas, where dusun (orchard) fruit and vegetable
growing is carried out within the house lots, has always been a feature of
FELDA planning procedures.   Level to only gently sloping, well drained land
is essential for the residential sites, and such areas are not easily found
on many FELDA schemes, which are exclusively on the sedentary soils developed
over the dissected peneplain topography of the interior. Such terrain is



ANNEX 4
Page 2
normally rolling to hilly, with slopes in the 6-20° range and the soils are
more free draining and possess lower reserves of inherent fertility than
do the considerably richer types developed over the coastal and riverine
flats bordering the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, where much of the
earlier smallholder and estate development bank took place in the first half
of the twentieth century. Considerable care has therefore been given to
the selection of the proposed Keratong town site, and to the preparation of
the structural layout plan for the town, which is based on a 10 foot contour
survey specially commissioned for the purpose.
5.        The rolling to hilly land, which seldom exceeds 300 feet in eleva-
tion, and over which the amplitude of relief is almost always in the range
of 150 to 250 feet, is covered in its natural state by tropical rain forest.
Malaysian experience has shown that such land can be readily adapted to tree
crop cultivation on a sustained yield basis, provided that a high standard
of conservation farming is practiced. Such measures include contour terracing
or platform planting and the early establishment of a thick ground cover,
preferably leguminous, to reduce the incidence of erosion in the early years
of tree crop establishment, pending the development of a full canopy which
simulates the natural forest condition. The quality of the soils are such
that rubber can be grown almost everywhere within this terrain group, but
oil palm, which is more demanding in terms of moisture requirements and which
imposes a heavier plant nutrient drain upon the soil, must necessarily be
limited to a narrower range of soils. Terrain constraints are also more
serious in the case of oil palm, owing to the much greater yield of crop per
acre (about 10 times that of rubber) which must be transported from the land,
calling for an intricate road and path system which is both difficult and
expensive to construct and maintain in the areas of steeper and more incised
topography.
6.        The part of the Pahang Tenggara region allocated to FELDA for
the project falls into the higher quality class, and is very well suited to
oiL palm cultivation.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Planning and Design Standards for the Project Towns
1.        The settlers would live in two towns encircled by nine agricultural
schemes: Keratong town (Town 22), with 2,556 settler families in 7 scheme
neighborhoods, and Town 21, with 817 settler families in 2 scheme neighbor-
hoods (see Map). The 7 scheme neighborhoods in Keratong town would surround
an urban core where civic and commercial facilities serving the southwest
subregion of Pahang Tenggara would be located. The total population by 1990
is projected at about 36,000 for Keratong town and 7,000 for Town 21 (see
Annex 6 for an analysis of the growth processes for population and jobs in
this type of towns).
2.        Included in the project is the development of the 9 scheme neigh-
borhoods. The development of the Keratong town center will lag behind and
the detailed planning of the center has not yet started -- it will, however,
follow the overall structural plan which has been prepared (broadly indicated
in the Map).
Planning Objectives
3.        The planning of the towns would satisfy four major objectives:
(a) Flexibility to meet several possible growth trends are
built into the plans.
(b) The FELDA scheme neighborhoods are planned in such a
way as to allow the settlers a smooth transition from
the traditional kampong environment, to which most of
them are used, to a more urban environment. The house
lots would be large enough to allow the settlers to
keep some household animals and to grow vegetables and
fruits. Vital services, including primary schools, would
be accessible by foot.
(c) The FELDA scheme neighborhoods would be located and
planned in such a way as to allow the settlers easy access
to both their respective schemes and to the scheme
management offices -- one per scheme, in the center of
the neighborhood -- where they all assemble in the morning
before the day's work starts.



ANNEX 5
Page  2
(d) For safety and environment reasons, the road systems
would be planned so that the trucks bringing the fresh
fruit bunches (ffb) from the field to the oil mills do
not pass through any residential areas or close to any
schools. The mill in Keratong town would be among
the largest in Malaysia, with a capacity of 72 tons ffb/hour.
During the harvesting season a truck would arrive at this
mill about every 5 minutes.
4.        The choice of housing and infrastructure standards for the FELDA
portions of the towns and the timing of their development have been based on
the following considerations, closely related to (a) - (d) above:
(a) The risks and the long maturing time involved in oil palm
development dictate relatively modest initial standards which
can be upgraded in the future when the incomes and preferences
of the settlers become known with more certainty.
(b) All necessary services, including schools and health facili-
ties, must be available when the settlers arrive because of
the high initial labor requirement on the schemes and the
composition of the settler families, with the household head
an average of 27-28 years old and with about 3 young chil-
dren. The time available for work at home is limited during
the first 5-8 years.
(c) The low population density and the traditional Malay house
design and living pattern make low infrastructure standards
feasible and acceptable.
Land Use and Density
5.        Both towns would be hierarchically organized.  There would be one
local center for each of the nine scheme neighborhoods and for each of the
three non-FELDA residential areas in Keratong town, with a primary school,
community clinic, community center, mosque, public playing field, smaller
shops, and (in the case of the scheme neighborhoods) the FELDA scheme office.
Three higher level centers, with secondary schools and larger shops, would
also be developed: one in Town 21 and two in Keratong town. Finally, the
subregional institutional and commercial center would be developed in the
core of Keratong town, including the district hospital and a FELDA training
college.
6.        The land use pattern would be approximately as follows: 1/
a! Sources: Jabatan Perancang Bandar Dan Kampung, Pahang Tenggara Urban
Programme, Town 22: Lubok Bahru - The Structure Plan, Volumes 1 and 2,
Final Report, March 1974. Jabatan Perancang Bandar Dan Kampung,
Merancang Pekan FELDA, November 1972. Mission and FELDA estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
FELDA scheme neighborhoods,
including local centers and       Non-FELDA
sub-centers               portion of
Town 21    Keratong town      Keratong town
Acres       %    Acres    %          Acres    %
Residential, net                 345       53    1,000    50          230     17
Centers, excluding schools        58        9       145     7         130     10
Schools                           46        7        95     5          40      3
Industry                          39        6         0     0         100      8
Roads and utilities               78       12       320    16         265     20
Recreational                      32        5        85     4         125      9
Residual and reserve /1          52         8       355    18        440      33
Total                      650       100    2,000   100       1,330    100
/1   In Keratong town an additional about 500 acres of forest reserves would
be retained between the town and the oil palm schemes.
The net residential density would be about 20 persons per acre in the FELDA
scheme neighborhoods and about 80 persons per acre in the non-FELDA neighbor-
hoods.
Town 21 and FELDA Portion of Keratong Town
7.        Land Clearing and Site Preparation.  After the jungle has been logged
for commercial timber, it is felled and burned. The cost of felling is about
M$ 87 per acre and the cost of burning about M$ 6 per acre, the same as for
the agricultural areas. After burning, the destumping takes place, at a cost
of M$ 206 per acre. Site levelling requirements are minimal due to the tradi-
tional Malay design of the houses, which are elevated.
8.        House Construction.  The houses are built by private contractors
before the settlers' arrival. The design is standardized and based on FELDA's
long experience of the requirements of a settler family. The building area
is about 37 sq m and the cost averages M$ 1,800 (US$735), including a small
amount for site levelling. The cost per sq m is only about US$20 (US$1.8 per
sq ft). The basic building material is wood, with corrugated asbestos used
for roofing.
9.        Water Supply.  Temporary chlorinated water supply from nearby rivers
will be available when the settlers arrive -- the on-site water distribution
system is permanent, however. About two years after all settlers have arrived,
the local distribution systems will be connected to a permanent subregional
water supply system, using surface water sources and designed for a demand
of 40 gpcd. The permanent water supply is treated through aeration, floccula-
lation, sedimentation, filtration and, finally, chlorination. The pumps,
treatment equipment and reservoirs used for the temporary supply are trans-
ferred to a new development area when the permanent supply becomes available.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
1C).      Each house plot has a separate water tap behind the house.  The
settler usually arranges and equips a small kitchen in the back of the house,
close to the tap. The full cost of the individual connection and the meter,
M$ 90, is charged to the settler's loan account. The water rate is M$ 1.00
per 1,000 gallons, which is estimated to cover the full capital and operat-
irng cost.
11.       In older FELDA schemes only 1 standpipe per every 6-8 houses was
provided. Due to maintenance and cost allocation problems, as well as settler
dissatisfaction, it has been decided to change to individual taps. This
system is preferred by the settlers in spite of the higher costs to them and
has already been adopted in Johore Tenggara.
12.       Sewerage.  The only sewerage facility provided to the settlers is
a small "back-house", the cost of which is included in the cost of the house.
This solution is acceptable because of the low density and the soil condi-
tions. In preparation for increasing densities and a future demand for higher
service levels, DARA and FELDA are preparing guidelines for the site layout
which would reduce the cost of a future installation of either a central
waLter-borne sewerage system or grouped septic tanks.
13.       Drainage.  Open drains, lined with laterite, are provided along
the roads and the cost is included in the road costs. House lot drains are
built by the settlers under direction of the scheme management. Each settler
is responsible for the maintenance of both his house lot drains and the
roadside drains in front of his lot.
14.       Electricity.  Electricity is not provided to individual settler
houses. Each scheme office is, however, equipped with a diesel generator
which provides a limited supply of electricity to the office, staff quarters
and certain public buildings. The hours of operation are generally limited
to 5:30 A.M. to 6:30 A.M. and 6:30 P.M. to 11:30 P.M. The scheme manager
can extend the hours of operation to cater for special functions.
15.       Roads.  Fifteen and a half miles of "primary" roads provide access
to the two towns from the regional highway system and, in the case of Keratong
town, encircle the scheme neighborhoods. Two paved 3.5 m lanes will be
constructed initially, with open drains on each side. A 30 m right-of-way
is provided, which would allow future upgrading of the road. The cost per
km, is approximately US$48,000.
16.       A total of 62 miles of secondary, or local, roads will be constructed
within the scheme neighborhoods -- 49 miles in Keratong town and 13 miles in
Town 21. The gross local road density is only about 2.4 miles per 100 acres
in Keratong town and 2.0 miles per 100 acres in Town 21, due mainly to the
large plot sizes. These roads have a 20 m right-of-way and a single 5.5 m
lane with open drains on each side. The road surface is unpaved but laterited.
The cost per km is about US$ 19,000.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
17.       A system of footpaths will link all centers and residential areas.
These paths will be developed over time by the settlers at the direction of
the scheme management and therefore no direct costs will be incurred.
18.       Communal Facilities.  The following communal facilities will be
provided in the project towns as part of the project:
Town 21                   Town 22 (Keratong town)
2 primary schools                    7 primary schools
1 secondary school                   3 secondary schools
1 community clinic                   5 community clinics
2 community centers                  2 health sub-centers
2 mosques                            7 community centers
2 public playing fields              7 mosques
7 public playing fields
In addition, a district hospital, police and fire stations and a post office
will be provided in the Keratong town center (see paras 22-24).  Town 21 is
large enough to support both primary and secondary schools, but for health
services its settlers would largely depend on Keratong town.
19.       Each local center will have a primary school, with 6 classrooms,
providing services to about 400 settler families. A secondary school -- with
6 classrooms, 2 labs, workshop, and library -- would be built in each sub-
center. All classrooms would have to be utilized in two shifts.
20.       The community clinics will be staffed with one nurse each.  They
will not receive any regular visits by doctors. Each of the two health sub-
centers in Keratong town will be staffed with one nurse and one para-medic
and be regularly visited by doctors. The district hospital will have resident
doctors on its staff.
21.       Cost per Settler.  The town development cost per settler family is
shown below, for housing, on-site infrastructure and communal facilities. 1/
The cost of off-site (primary) roads and off-site water supply is excluded.
1/   Settlers constitute about 75% of the population making use of infrastruc-
ture and communal facilities.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
M$              US$
Clearing and destumping /1                    175               70
House                                       1,800              735
Water supply /2                               330              135
Secondary Roads                             1,030              420
Primary schools                               400              165
Secondary schools                             480              195
Hlealth facilities                            130               55
Community centers                              30               10
Mlosques                                      140               55
Public playing fields                          60               25
Total                                  4,575             1,865
/1   For the whole area.
/2   On-site, includes M$ 90 for individual connection and meter.
These costs are only 5-15% higher than in the Johore Land Settlement Project,
mostly due to price increases and the relative inaccessibility of the area.
Non-FELDA Portion of Keratong Town
22.       Three non-FELDA residential areas would be developed to the west,
east and south of a civic and commercial town center. An industrial area
would be developed north of these areas with a forest buffer zone in between
(see Map). Acreages and population densities were presented in para 6. The
size and location of the individual non-FELDA residential areas were dictated
mainly by the terrain. Each of them is planned for a population of about
6,000 persons.
23.       Local centers with primary schools would be developed in each of
the three residential areas (para 5). The two higher level centers (with
secondary schools and health sub-centers) would serve both the FELDA and
non-FELDA portions of the town. One would be located in the western part
of the town and one to the east. The district administrative offices would
be located in the main town center, together with police station, post office,
etc. The district hospital would also be located in this center -- a 108
bed capacity would be developed before 1980 in a first phase and by 1985 the
capacity would be 216 beds. The subregional health delivery program would
be administered from this hospital. A 10 acre site for a FELDA agricultural
training institute has been reserved immediately south of the main center,
next to FELDA scheme neighborhood II.
24.       The non-FELDA portion of Keratong town would be developed in three
major phases, proceeding from west to east in accordance with the FELDA
development (see Annex 7, Chart 1). In a first phase the eastern non-FFLDA



ANNEX 5
Page 7
residential area, the southern portion of the town center And narts -f the
industrial area would be developed. This would take place At the same time
as FELDA neighborhoods I-III are developed, with land clearing starting in
October 1974. Development nf the eastern non-FELDA residential area And the
northern portion of the town center would take place between 1976 and the
early 1980's. The southern non-FELDA residential area would not be Aeveloped
until the late 1980's. A more precise time schedule is being worked .ut
during the detailed design and engineering now under way. this time schedule
would be revised as necessary by DARA in light of the actual growth rate af
the town population (see Annex 6).






ANNEX 6
Page 1
MAIAYS IA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Project Towns and Urban Development
Pattern in Peninsular Malaysia
1.        The purpose of this annex is to analyze the Government's decision
to have an urbanized settlement pattern in Pahang Tenggara. The employment
effects of the proposed project will also be estimated.
2.        The settlements in the proposed project are larger than in earlier
Bank financed land settlement projects in Malaysia (see Table 1). In the
three Jengka Triangle projects the number of settler families per village
ranged from 325 to 535 and in the Johore Land Settlement Project the auimbel
ranged between 265 and 1,255.  The evolution from small to large settlemeri4,-
the urbanization of the settlers, continues in the proposed project where the
3,373 settler families will be concentrated in two towns, one (Town 21) with
817 families and one (Town 22, Keratong town) with 2,556 families (see Map).
Keratong town would be the second largest in Pahang Tenggara, with about
36,000 inhabitants by 1990, and would function as the commercial and insti-
tutional center for the southwest subregion.
3.        In summary, the choice of larger settlement sizes is an integral
part of the Government's urban development strategy for Malaysia as a whole,
and Pahang Tenggara in particular -- a strategy that should help redirect
urban growth from a few large cities to medium-sized towns (see paras 4-13).
The choice of larger settlements is consistent with the economic and social
development policies of the Government and should bring long-term benefits
not only to the settlers themselves but also to their dependents, who will
face a broad range of employment opportunities when the settlements reach
maturity (see paras 14-18). Furthermore, higher public service standards
can be provided in the project towns than in the traditionally smaller vil-
lages (see para 19). The reduction expected in infrastructure costs will
more than offset the increase in settler transport costs (see para 20).
Settlement Pattern in Peninsular Malaysia
4.        In 1970 about 37% of the population of Peninsular Malaysia lived
in towns with a population of 5,000 or more, compared with 31% in 1957. 1/
1/   The 1970 figure is adjusted for the population living in urbanized
areas contiguous with the largest cities but outside of their adminis-
trative boundaries (see Urban connurbations - Population and households
in ten gazetted towns and their adjoining built-up areas, 1970 Popula-
tion and Housing Census of Malaysia). Without this adjustment the
percentage is 34. No adjustment of the 1957 figure has been made but
the number of people living in such adjoining urbanized areas in that
year was relatively small.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The corresponding 1970 figure for the State of Pahang is only 23% -- Pahang
is substantially less urbanized than Peninsular Malaysia as a whole.
5.        A clearer picture of urbanization trends is obtained by looking
at the whole spectrum of settlement sizes -- see Table 2.  The population
living in large settlements, with 50,000 persons or more, increased more
rapidly than the population as a whole, and so did the population of small
settlements with 5,000-20,000 inhabitants.  The 1957-70 population growth
rate of large settlements was more than 100% and that of small ones about
50%, versus an overall growth rate of some 40%. The number of people living
in medium-sized settlements, 20,000-50,000 persons, actually declined between
1957 and 1970, by about 25%. 1/ The net result of this trend is that a
larger and larger share of the total population is living in the few big
urban centers in Peninsular Malaysia.
6.        Figure 1 illustrates the trend towards a concentration of the
population in large urban centers. 2/ From 1957 to 1970 the distribution
curve for Peninsular Malaysia flattened out for intermediate settlement sizes,
reflecting their decreasing share of the total population.
I17.     There are many public services and economic activities for which a
minimum population size is required if they are to be economically viable.
The threshold for many of these activities appear to be in the 15,000-20,000
population range. 3/ Migrants desiring a wide range of public services and
economic opportunities therefore tend to gravitate towards centers with a
1J   A similar picture is arrived at by analyzing the growth of individual
settlements. Those which had a population of 50,000 or more in 1957
expanded much faster than the population as a whole and those with a
population of 5,000-50,000 in 1957 grew much slower.
2/   Distribution curves of the kind shown in Figure 1 have the property
of being flatter the larger the total population of the country or
region is. They also tend to approach straight lines for large total
populations. Sources: Peninsular Malaysia 1957: Pahang Tenggara
Regional Masterplanning Study, Supporting Volume on Sociology and
Migration, p. 10; Peninsular Malaysia and Pahang 1970: 1970 Population
and Housing Census of Malaysia.
3/   These levels were analyzed in detail as part of the Pahang Tenggara
Regional Masterplanning Study. See in particular: Supporting Volume
on Settlements and Infrastructure, Chapter 6; Working Paper No. 39:
Town Sizes and Thresholds for Manufacturing Activities in West Malaysia;
Working Paper No. 52: Settlement Size - An Evaluation of Service
Thresholds. For instance, among secondary activities the 15,000-20,000
population range appears to be a threshold for stone and clay industries.
Such industries are expected to locate in Keratong town to utilize local
raw material.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
population at and above this threshold level. As there are very few centers
of 15,000-50,000 persons in Malaysia, the growth pattern discussed above is
understandable -- the odds that a migrant will end up in a town in this size
range are relatively small. He moves to a larger city. Of the 11 states in
Peninsular Malaysia, 6 had no town of 15,000-20,000 persons in 1970, 7 had
no town of 20,000-30,000, and 7 had no town of 30,000-50,000. There were
4 states without a single town within the whole 15,000-50,000 range. The
lack of medium-sized towns is closely related to the undeveloped state of
regional economic linkages in Malaysia. For instance, much trade takes
place directly between the largest cities, the small towns, and villages,
bypassing medium-sized regional centers.
8.        To counteract the imbalance in the urban growth pattern, the
Government is attempting to create medium-sized growth centers and develop
regional economic linkages. These efforts are closely related to the Gov-
ernment's strategy of reducing the large income disparities between the
Chinese and Malay population by "urbanizing" the Malays. Close to 80X of
the Malays are now employed in the rural sector compared with only about
50% of the non-Malays, which correlates with the 1:2 income disparity be-
tween the two groups -- urban incomes are on the average two and a half
times higher than rural incomes.
Settlement Pattern in Pahang Tenggara
9.        In 1970, the total population of the whole of the State of Pahang
was about 500,000 persons, with about 43,000 persons living in Kuantan, the
capital on the east coast. Only about 60,000 persons were living in the
largely undeveloped Pahang Tenggara region. In the Pahang Tenggara Regional
Masterplanning Study (see Annex 2), the 1990 population target for Pahang
Tenggara is set at about 500,000 persons, most of whom would live in some
38 new towns of a variety of sizes (see Table 3). 1/ The largest town, Bukit
Ridan, would have a population of about 70,000 persons by 1990.
10.       The development strategy decided upon for Pahang Tenggara -- to
provide a planned hierarchy of urban settlements -- focusses on the present
gap in the urban hierarchy in Peninsular Malaysia by attempting to develop
a series of medium-sized towns which would divert the present migration flows
to the larger cities. This development pattern would be achieved by con-
centrating the workers in primary industries (agriculture and forestry) in
relatively few settlements, rather than in many small and scattered ones.
Such concentrations would result in settlement populations large enough
(a) to support satisfactory infrastructure standards and public service
levels and (b) to induce a substantial amount of secondary and tertiary
1/   Urban statistics and population projections are being updated during
the detailed planning now underway. All figures presented here are
based on the original Master Plan, except for the two project towns
(Towns 21 and 22).



ANNEX 6
Page 4
employment (see further in paras 13-17). The service levels and the eco-
nomic opportunities offered by these settlements would make them competitive
with the larger cities on the west coast in terms of attracting and keeping
migrants.
11.       The concentration of primary workers would in some instances,
such as Keratong town, lead to higher transport costs than with a more
traditional rural settlement pattern. These higher costs will, however,
be offset by reduced non-work related transport costs to schools and
other public service facilities, by the benefits that would be derived
from the higher service levels that can be provided, by the long term
benefits derived from the more balanced regional and urban development
pattern this approach will bring about, and by the reduction in infra-
structure costs (see para 20).
12.       Keratong town, the larger of the two project towns, would play a
key role in the development of Pahang Tenggara. Initially it would be the
largest town in the region, since Bukit Ridan will have a slower population
growth until in the 1980s. As Keratong town will be developed earlier than
Bukit Pidan, there is a possibility that it may attract some of the employ-
inent and migration that is planned for Bukit Ridan and, in effect, become
the regional center. Keratong town is not planned for such a role and the
relative growth rates of the two towns should therefore be carefully moni-
tored by DARA (see Annex 3).
13.       The data and the empirical findings underlying the settlement
proposals in the Pahang Tenggara Masterplanning Study are limited and are
by necessity based on already developed areas, mostly on the west coast.
This is particularly unsatisfactory for projecting the growth pattern (spa-
tially and over time) of the proposed settlements. The growth processes in
land settlement areas are poorly understood at the present. They are, how-
ever, being closely studied by the Bank as part of its research program
("Urban and Regional Subsystems in Malaysia" -- RPO 297). This research
focuses on the processes through which the creation of primary employment
affects a region's economic growth. Preliminary findings indicate that
the inducement of secondary and tertiary activities often does not take
iplace as and where expected, mostly due to the lack of regional economic
linkages (para 7), and that strong institutional controls may be required
to achieve overall regional development objectives. The strengthening of
PARA (Annex 3) and close supervision of the proposed project would ensure
that the experience from earlier land settlement projects be taken into
account in the monitoring of immigration and employment creation in Pahang
Tenggara.
Employment Structure and Settlement Size
14.       Most high-income economic activities require a minimum local
population size -- as a local market and/or as a potential labor force
w;ith varied skills -- and a well-developed economy which can provide the
many external services required. The population thresholds at which various



ANNEX 6
Page 5
economic activities become feasible have been investigated in the Malaysian
context, as mentioned earlier, and the related employment structure has also
been determined -- see Figure 2. 1/ The proportion of the population em-
ployed in the primary sector (principally agriculture, forestry and related
processing activities) declines repidly with increasing settlement size,
whereas the proportion employed in services and commerce increases rapidly
up to a settlement population of about 20,000 persons. It appears that the
structure shown in Figure 2 is fairly stable over time (at least over 15-25
years) and that economic development and nation-wide structural change take
place through the growth of settlements and not through a changing structure
for each size category. Figure 2 can be used to project the likely develop-
ment over time of the employment situation in typical settlements of various
sizes in Pahang Tenggara. This has been done, using FELDA settlements as an
example.
Employment Situation in FELDA-type Settlements
15.       In a FELDA settlement of traditional size, with about 400 settler
families, approximately 100 other families move in during the development
period (management staff, mill workers, teachers, etc.), resulting in a
total of 500 households (see Table 4). Most of the household heads are
young (an average of about 28 years for settlers) with newly born children,
resulting in a low labor force participation rate. At the same time the
agricultural labor requirements are relatively high and hence unemployment
is low.
16.       By the late 1980's this situation will have changed, however, in
settlements which are now being developed. The agricultural labor require-
ments will have declined to about one job or less per holding, at the same
time as the children will have entered the labor force. Assuming an average
household size of six persons in 1990, a labor force participation rate of
0.35 and an acceptable unemployment rate of 5%, a total of about 1,000 jobs
would be required. A settlement of this size would normally support only
290 non-primary jobs, leaving a gap of 265 additional primary jobs which
would have to be developed in addition to the 445 FELDA jobs if high unem-
ployment rates and outmigration were to be avoided. Such outmigration is
now taking place from some of the first land settlement schemes which were
developed in Malaysia, where the settlers live in small villages.
17.       Even in a village with a base of as many as 1,250 settlers some
outmigration can be expected (see Table 4). With a base of 2,500 settlers
enough additional economic activities could be induced to employ the future
surplus labor force from the settler families and also to attract substantial
1/   Source:  Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplanning StudZ, Supporting
Volume on Settlements and Infrastructure, p. 23. The figure is based
on an analysis of already developed settlements at one point in time.
Variation in the size of the hinterland is not considered.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
in-migration -- the total population may approach 36,000 by 1990 (this find-
ing is consistent with the consultants' projections for Keratong town). Many
of the smaller new towns in Pahang Tenggara (including the smaller of the two
project towns) may experience some outmigration in the 1980's, but the mi-
grants should be able to find employment in the larger new towns within the
region, as indicated above. The proposed urban hierarchy in Pahang Tenggara
would therefore accommodate the changing employment situation.
18.       Long Term Employment Effects of the Project.  Estimates of the
total long term employment multiplier for land settlement (primary) jobs in
M4alaysia range from 2.0 to 2.6. If a value of 2.1 is assumed, the total
number of jobs generated by the proposed project would be about 8,000. The
direct long term effect would be about 3,800 jobs and the indirect long term
effect eventually about 4,200 jobs. Of the indirectly generated 4,200 jobs
only some 400-500 would be located in the smaller of the two project towns
(based on Figure 2) whereas most of the remaining 3,700 jobs should be lo-
cated in Keratong town, with some effects spreading to other commercial and
manufacturing centers in Malaysia. The exact location of the multiplier
effects depends on the success of DARA in controlling the region's develop-
ment. During the development period itself, an estimated average of 4,700
workers would be required.
Public Service Levels
19.       The fact that larger settlements can support a wider range of
services than small villages contributed to the decision to increase set-
tlement sizes in Pahang Tenggara, including FELDA settlements. There are
many facilities which require a minimum population size if they are to be
efficiently utilized, such as secondary schools and certain health equip-
ment and personnel, and which therefore cannot be provided in small vil-
lages. Settlers in the traditionally smaller FELDA settlements have to
travel from their home village to centrally located service facilities.
Infrastructure Costs
20.       The concentrated settlement pattern in Pahang Tenggara would not
lead to more than a marginal reduction in the on-site infrastructure costs
per settler, compared to a more dispersed settlement pattern. The off-site
cost for water treatment facilities would not be lower either -- treatment
costs are low even when more dispersed settlement patterns are used because
normally one large treatment facility serves several villages. Cost savings
would, however, occur for off-site roads (settlement access roads) and water
transmission lines. It has been estimated that the capital cost savings for
these two items from the proposed settlement pattern, compared with one where
one village were located in the center of each scheme, amount to about M$ 1.1
million and M$ 2.4 million, respectively. The corresponding increase in
settler transport costs amounts to about M$ 50,000 annually (1974 prices;
based on tractor-cum-trailer transport provided by FELDA at a variable cost
of M$ 0.184 per mile and excluding settler time costs). At a discount rate
of 10% the savings in infrastructure costs outweigh the increase in settler
transport costs over the 30 year project life by a factor of about 7.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Table 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Settlement Sizes in the Jengka Triangle,
Johore and Keratong Land Settlement Projects
Jengka I    Jengka II    Jengka III    Johore    Keratong
(1)          (2)           (3)          (4)          (5)
Number of settlements                  7           7             9             8           2
Total number of settlers           2,770       3,040         3,960        4,400
Average number of settlers
per settlement                     395         435           440           550      1,685
Size distribution - number
of settlements with:
-   199   settlers             -           -
200 -   300   settlers             -            -             -              1
300 -   400   settlers               4           2            -              2
400 -   500   settlers              .3           4             9             1
500 -   600   settlers             -             1            -              1
600 - 1,000   settlers             -            -                            2          1
1,000 - 1,500   settlers             -            -             -              1
1,500 +          settlers      1



ANNEX 6
Page8
Table 2
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEKENT PROJECT
The 1957 and 1970 Population of Peninsular Malaysia, by
Settlement Size
Settlement                              1970 Population
Size         1957 Population             (Adjusted) 1/     1957-70 Growth (s)
(000)         (000)     %             (000)    %          Adjusted Unadjusted
(l)           (2)     (3)             (4)   (5)            (6)         (7)
-  5        4,324       69            5,597    63           29           35
5- 20          478        8              720      8          51           64
20- 50          422        7              321      4         -24          -19
50-100          325        5              635      7          95          104
100+            734       12            1,555    18          112           66
TOTAL         6,279      100            8,827   100           41           41
/ Adjusted for contiguous urbanized areas (see para. 4).  Columns (6) and (7)
show that the growth pattern is not substantially changed through this
adjustment.



ANNEX 6
Pag~e 9
Table 3
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Projected 1990 Population of Pahang Tenggara,
by Settlement Size
Settlement Size                                                     Total Population
(000 persons)           Number of Settlements                      (000)        (%)
(1)                          (2)                               (3)          (4)
- 2                                                            48          9.6
2  -  5                           8                                27          'io.4
5  - 10.                        13                                87         17.4
10  - 15                           7                                82         16.4
15  - 20                           5                                87         17.4
20  - 23                           3                                63         12.6
36 /2                           1                                36         7.2
70 /3                           1                                70        14.0
38                               500       100.0
Source:  Pahang Tenggara Regional Masterplanning Study -- Supporting Volume on
Settlesents and Infrastructure, and  mission estimates.
/1   Including Town 21 with about 7,000 persons.
/2   Keratong Town-- Town 22
73   Bukit Ridan -- Town 10



ANNEX 6
Page 10
Tab-le 
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Population and Employment in FELDA Settlements by 1990
400-Settler Town    1250-Settler Town    2500-Settler Town
Number    %       Number      %        Number     %
(1)     (2)       (3)      (4)          (5)      (6)
1. FELDA settler house-
holds                    400    80        1,250     80         2,500      42
2. FELDA management
households                30      6          95      6           190       3
3. FELA mill worker
households                15      3          45      3            90       1
4. Other households            55   11          170     11         3,220      54
5. Total households          500   100        1,560    100         6,000     100
6. Average household
size (persons)             6                  6                    6
7. Total population        3,000              9,360               36,000
8. Labor force partici-
pation ratio             0.35              0.35                 0.35
9. Labor force             1,050              3,275               12,600
10. Total number of jobs    1,000   100        3,110    100        11,970      100
11. FELDA (primary) jobs      445    45        1,390     45         2,780      23
12. Additional primary/
manufacturing jobs        265    26         155      5             0       0
13. Manufacturing               20     2         125      4           960       8
14. Commerce                    60     6         405     13         2,505      21
15. Services                   110    11         690      22        4,180      35
16. Others                     100    10         345     11         1,545      13



ANNEX 6
Epage 1.
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Cumulative Population Distributions by Settlement Size
Cumulative Percentage of
Total Population
100
Pahang 1970
Pnnular Malaysia 1957
80--
70-
Peninsular Malaysia 1970
60-
50
50                                   I        I      I         I            II1
2.5              5                10        15    20         30          50              100              200
Settlement Size
(000)
World Bank-8079 (R)



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Employment Structure by Settlement Size
% of total                                     Peninsular Malaysia
employment
80                                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
70 .t. 
60                                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
50                                                                                                     __ _ __ _ __ .__ _
\ RIMA RY
40        -     \
30
20       *           _ |ff  ~=2                >        -~  r _ COMMERCE _  _
JMA N UFACTU RING
*_;.UTILITIES      CONSTRUCTION                 _l -
°         10        20        30        40        50        60        70        80        90       100        110      120
Settlement population
(000)
World Bank-8080(R)



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Urban Delopment Program
1973           1974                1975                 1976                1977                 1978                1979                 1980                1981
_JAS  N  JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS ONC JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS ONO JFM  AMJ JAS  N  JFM AMJ JAS OND JFMTAMJ JAS OND
TOWN 22 (Schemes 1-7)
PLANNING AND INFRASTRUCTURE:
Structural planning
Detailed planning-                                                --
Primary roads (15 miles)                               -                    - _    _       - _    _    =        - =    =                  -
Secondary roads 149 miles)
Water supply
BUILDINGS:
SCHEMES 1-3
Settler houses (1,037 units)
Offices and staff houses
Public buildings
SCHEMES 4-5
Settler houses 1613 units)
Offices and staff houses
Public buildings
SCHEMES 6-7
Settler houses (706 units)
Offices and stuff houses
Public buildings
TOWN 21 (Schemes &9)
PLANNING AND INFRASTRUCTURE:
Planning
Primary road (0.5 mile)
Secondary roads (13 miles)
Water supply
BUILDINGS:
Settler houses 1817 units)
Offices and staff houses
Public buildings
V =Settler entry
World Bank-8678(R)



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Development Program
ACRES                      72       1973             1974             1975             1976             1977             1978
SCHEME       TOTAL        PLANTABLE   RESIDENTIAL 
____SCHEME AREA SCHEME AREA            AREA       ON   J FMAMJ JAS ON CJFMAMJI JAS ON   J FMAMJ JAS ON   J FMAMJ JAS ~NDJFMAMj JASDNOJrm1AMJ JAS  NO
ONE        6,509           5,858                         mm   i  n
TWO        5,670            5,103                                               IilU,
THREE       6,687            6,018                                               mu. ',
04
0
FIVE       6,570            5,643                                                          lulii   ll    'U
six        6,848           5,583                                                                            ISEmm
SEVEN       5,952           5,357                                                                              lin*ui1lI
EIGHT       8,320           7,128                                                                                                iiin
NINE       7,552            6,257                                                                                             u h Ij
REFERENCE:
TOTAL  62,637  54,624   2,650                           ~~~FELLING      1111Ii1E11 LANE) PREPARATION                 PLANTING
World Bank-8702



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Staging of Mill Construction and Capacity
1975           1976           1977           1978            1979            1980           1981           1982
FIRST FACTORY
First Stage    (27)                                 W                      
Second Stage (27-45)                                                                I      : Z:
Third Stage   (45-72)
SECOND FACTORY
First Stage    (27)                                                                                I
Second Stage (27-54)                                                                                                               I      1
Total Capacity (tons/hour)                                                     27              27             45             72              99             1265
Required Capacity (tons/hour, peak month)                                       5.5           2!1. 1          45.5           73.3            98.6           116.4
E   Preparation ofTenders  IM Tendering Period                   EautoofTnes              F          Construction






M A L AY S I A
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Total Proect Coats-
(M$ OlE)
Forign
1972     1973       1974       1975       1976        1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982             Total                        Total     Local       Enchagme       7.
AGRICELTUR4L. DEVELOPMEhT
Land Clearing end Planting                        306      1,903      4,041      5,376       5,472       5,064      2,306         485           -           -           -            24,953                       10.2      9.7          .5           5
Fertilgeere aed Peticidea                            -        43        379      1,007       2,304       4,146      6,152       6,422       5,926       3,948       2,004            32,331                       13.2      4.0         9.2          70
Plantiag Materials                                   -       650      1,267      1,563       1,330       1,596         115         50           -           -           -             6,571                        2.7      2.7           -           0
Upgrading of Roade and Colverts                      -         -          -         129        749       1,249       1,387      1,235       1,151           -           -             5,900                        2.4      1.7          .7          30
Other FELDA Eapeditare                               -       154        377         559        572         620         284        108           -           -           -             2,674                        1.1      1.1           -           o
Settler Wages                                       _      _            _          361       1,214       2.292      3,103       3.519       2,852       1,700         774            15.815                        6.5      6.5         -             0
Slb-Total                                    306      2,750     6,064       8,995      11,641      14,967     13,347      11,819       9,929       5,648      2,778             88,244                      36.1 v  25.7          10.4          29
SETTLER OUSING AND HOUSELOTS
Lead Clearing and Dsstempieg                         -         -         84         153        185         181         170          19          -           -           -               792                         .3       .3           -           5
Nosee Co-strcctiea                                 _           -        _           392      1,134       1,643       1,416      1,636         154                                     6 6.375                      2.6      2.5          .1           5
Sab-Total                                      -          -         84        545       1,319       1,824       1,586      1,655         154           _           _             7,167                        2.9      2.8          .1           5
PROCESSINO
Mill Co-structien and Machiaary                      -         -          -           -      4,907       1,308       1,699      5,220       4,627       3,915       1,059            22,735                        9.3       5.1        4.2          45
HNening fat Mill Stcff                               _          -         _           _           -        600           -          60        600          60          60             1,380                         .6        .6           -           5
Mill Operating Cent and FFB Tranep-rt              _                                  -          26        221         728       1,066      1,118       1,014         728             4,901                        2.0       1.8         .2           30
Sob-Total                                      _           -         _           -      4,933       2,129      2,427       6,346       6,345       4,989       1,847            29,016                       11.9       7.5        4.4          37
FIELD MANAGEMENT
Vehiclen and Equipmnnt                              27        58         72         198        223         136         165         165          72        101         115             1,332                         .5       .1          .4           70
Macsing end Officee                                  -         -          -         214        685         563         535        407          26            -          -             2,430                        1.0        .9          .1           5
Salaries and Other Op-tering Cents                  16       145        397         695      1,048       1,383       1,508       1,582     1.560        1,549       1,540            11,423                        4'7       4.5          .2           5
SNb-Total                                     43        203        469      1,107       1,956       2,082       2,208      2,154       1,658       1,650       1,655            15,185                        6.2       5.5         .7          11
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
Secondary Rondo                                      -         -          -         900      1,275       1,050       1,050         375           -           -          -             4,650                        1.9 V    1.3          .6           30
Rned Maintenance                                     --                               -          51        128         194         254         272        272         272             1,443                         .6V       .4          .2          30
Water 8apply                                         -          -        50         480         870      1,080       1,320         880         480         240           -            5,400                        2.2       1.5          .7          30
Pricaty RNeds                                        -                    -         475         950        950         570           -           -           -                         2,945                       1.2 V      .8          .4          30
Public Bnildings                                                          -         700       1.615      1.330       1.200         730           -           -           -             5,575                       2.3       2.1          .2          10
Slb-Total                                       -         -         50      2,555       4,761       4,538       4,334       2,239         752        512         272            20,013                        8.2       6.1         2.1          26
Total                                        366      31_01      6.667      13,202     24,810      25,548      23,902     24,213      18,938      12,799       6,552           159,790                       65.3      47.6        17.7          27
CONTINGENCIES 1'
Physical Contingency                                 _          -       338         916       1,707      1,731       1,628       1,435       1,017         691        355              9,818                        4.084    3.0         1.0          27
price Contiagency                                  _            -       383      2.299       6.878      In.o. 11,713            13.,577    11,900       9,670       5,668            72.089                       29.4 v   21.5          7.9          27
Sub-Total                                       _          -       721      3,215       8,585      11,732      13,341      15,012     12,917      10,361       6,023            81,907                       33.4      24.5         8.9          27
TOTAL                                                 366     3,101      7,388     16,417      33.195      37 272      37.243      39.225     31,755    25.160        12.575           241_697                       98.7      72.1        -L            27
1/  see Anene  9, Tabls 2
2/ early '74 price-



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Disbursement Categorv
Project Year      1         2          3          4          5         6          7          8          9         10         11
M$ 000          us$ 000
Calendar Year   1972       1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982             TOTAL           TOTAL
1. Land clearing and planting,
housing and road improvements                          306      1,903     4,125      6,264      8,225      9,300     5,814      3,842      1,931         60        60            41,830           17,073
2. Palm oil mill construction and
equipment                                              -          -         -          -        4,907     1,308      1,699      5,220      4,627     3,915      1,059            22,735           9,280
3.  Fertilizers and pesticides                             -           43        379     1,007      2,304      4,146     6,152      6,422      5,926      3,948     2,004             32,331          13,196
4.  Vehicles and equipment                                  27         58         72        198       223        136        165       165         72        101        115             1,332             544
5.  FELDA - loan account                                   -          804      1,644     2,483      3,142      4,729     4,230      4,743      3,970      2,714     1,502             29,961          12,229
6.  FELDA - establishment                                    16       145        397        695     1,048      1,383      1,508     1,582      1,560      1,549      1,540            11,423           4,662
7.  Infrastructure                                         -          -           50     2,555      4,761      4,538     4,334      2.239        752        512        272            20,013           8,169
Total                         349     3,953      6,667    13,202    24,610    25,540    23,902    24,213    18,838    12,799           6,552           159.625          65,153
Physical Contingency                17        148       338        916      1,707     1,731      1,628      1,435      1,017        691       355             9,983           4,075
Price Contingency                  -          -         383      2.299      6,878    10,001    11,713    13,577    11,900        9,670      5,668            72,089          29,424
8.  Total Contingency                                        17       148        721     3.215      8,585    11,732    13,341    15,012    12,917    10.361          6.023            82.072          33,499    Hl
GRAND TOTAL                         366      3.101     7,388    16,417    33.195    37.272    37,243    39,225    31.755    23.160    12,575                 241.697           98.652    , a
August 28, 1974



XAAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Financed Expenditure
TOTAL
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982   M$ 000  US$ 000
_ _ _ - - - - -  _ - - - - M$ 000 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Land clearing and planting,
housing and road improvement 2,983   3,697   5,957   4,119   2,900   1,539     51      54   21,298     8,693
2. Mill construction and
equipment                     -    2,944    785   1,019   3,132   2,776   2,349       635  13,641      5,568
3. Fertilizer and pesticides      622   1,537   2,994   4,658   5,180   5,o46   3,579   1,911   25,527    10,419
4. Vehicles  and equipment        104    128    240    110    118          55      82    103       940       384
Sub-total            3,709   8,306  9,976   9,906  11,329   9,416   6,061   2,703   61,408    25,o64
Contingencies          589   3,696   2,849   2,989   4,959   4,301   3,369   1,572   24,323     9,929
Total Loan           4,298  12,002  12,825  12,895  16,288  13,717   9,430   4,275  85,731    34,993
US$ 000              1,754   4,899   5,235   5,263   6,649   5,599   3,849   1,745      -      34,993
August 28, 1974
w co



ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA                       Table 4
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ 000)
Quarterly            Cumulative at
Year and Quarter                         Disbursement           End of Quarter
1975
2nd quarter                                   320                    320
3rd quarter                                   800                  1,120
4th quarter                                    240                 1,360
1976
1                                              240                 1,600
2                                             880                  2,480
3                                           1,280                  3,760
4                                              400                 4,160
1977
1                                           1,680                  5,84o
2                                           1,040                  6,880
3                                           2,080                  8,960
4                                           1,280                 10,240
1978
1                                              720                10,960
2                                           1,840                 12,800
3                                           1,760                 144,560
4                                              800                15,440
1979
1                                           1,120                 16,560
2                                           1,760                 18,320
3                                           1,520                 19,840
14                                            880                 20,720
1980
1                                           2,480                 23,200
2                                           1,840                 25,o40
3                                           1,040                 26,080
4                                              720                26,800
1981
1                                           1,440                 28,240
2                                           2,400                 30,640
3                                              56o                31,200
4                                              560                31,760
1982
1                                              6A40               32,2400
2                                           1,8140                314,2140
3                                              800                35,0140
14                                            1480                35,520
1983
1480               36,000
August 28, 19714



XALAYSIA
UERATONG ULAM SETCLIEAI PROJECT
FEI.OA S.-cc. en   ppioiooo  Poet Fund.
(l0000i. caccet PA-)es
1972  1973  1974  9195  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  19814  1985  1986  1987  1999  1909  1890  1371   M9  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  200 1  2002  2003  208420
SOOJRCES
Goveen                                               .4   3.2   6.9   7.5  12.3  13.2  12.0  14.4  12.5   9.0   4.7
2880                                                 -     -     -    2.8   6.4  12.9. 13.7  12.9  11.3  12.5   9.4   2.4
Covrset G-at, 1                                        -     .2    .4    .9   1.4   2.0   2.3   2.6   2.7   2.8   3.0
oi1 Repleoting Cen, 0 Ml 5/ton 908                               -           -      .1    .3    .7   1.2   1.7   2.1   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.5   1.4   2.4   2.3   2.3   2.5   2.2   2,1   2.1   2.0   2.0   1.9   1.9   1.8   1.8   1.0   1.6   1.2    .3    .4
Nil1 A-triot.tin Charge 9 M$ 7/too 0FF                                               .     .    1.0   1.7   2.4   3.0   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.5   3.4   3.    3.3   32   3.1   3.0   3.0   2.    2.8   2.7   2.7   2.6   2.6   2.5   2.5   2.3   1.7   1.I    .6
La.- Fepayet.1.0   5.0   8.5   9.7  13.8  13.6  13.8  13.6  13.'6  13.6  13.6  13.6  13.6  13.8  12. 6   8.2   5.3   2.5
Inton  f-o  FELDA Meaonen.it tory-4    .8   2.3   3.1   4.2'  4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   3.0   1.9    .7    .4
Not Incoo  fron085LDA  nldiooe  1/        2   13 2.5   3.9   5.4   8.3   7. 0   7.4   7. 8   8.1   8.5   8.9   9.1   9.1   9.4   9.7  10.0  10.0  10.4  10.4  11.0  11.5  11.3  12.8  13.5  10.6   6.7   3.
Tot.l                                       .4   3.4   7.3  11.2  20.1  28.2  29.0  32.9  37.3  38.1  38.0  27.1  30.6  31.2  31.6  31.7  22.0  32.3  32.4  3Z.2  32.4  32.6  30.6  25.2  21.1  17.9  15.5  15.9  15.8  17.1  17.0  13.5   8.6   4.5
APPLICAT2mOt
ftoject Coats                                          .4   3.4   7.3  12.5  22.9  33.5  33.9  35.7  37.2  29.9  21.4   3.4
R.oo,yant of GOoVesost Lo.-.             -       -       -       ---           -      -      -      -      -      -          .4   1.3   2.2   3.8   5.5   6.9   8.7  10.3  11.4  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  11.5  10.6   9.7   8.5   6.5   5.0   3.2   2.2
Recasm-t of 2880 Loose                                 -     -      -     .6   1.4   2.2   3.3   4.2   5.3   6.2   6.9   8.7  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.5  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.5  10.3   5.1                                                
Raspsnyot of Rllslatio  Ce.. to Settler,  2/--                                        -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -25.2  19.7  17.1  19.8
Ttota  Appli.ati-.                          .4   3.4   7.3  1. 24335.7  37.2  39.9  42.5  36.1  28.3  12.5  11.8  12.5  14.1  15.9   721.    062172.    232.   22.3  22.3  2. 16610.6   9.7   8.2  31.7  2.    032
Surplco (Deficit)                                        .   UY42    70   82   70   52                .   9714.6  19018.7  17.5   5.   14.8  13.3  11.6  10D.5  14.1  10.3   8.3   1.9  (1.2) (4.4) (1-.1)  5.3   64 - 9(i.)I3(H7c.5
Goonltlee Sarplas (Deficit)                              - (1.8) ~(6.1) (13.6) (fl.6) (28.6) (32.0) (11.4)-(22.1) J(7.53) 1i.5  30.2' 47.7  63.6  78.4  91.7 103.5 114.0 124.1 134.4 142.7 142-.6 104.4 -140.0 138.9 144.2 120-.3 ISM.  198.3 f34-TiIy04-T5  9V
1/ Fro  IOZ of planted aces  .. a-Imlg a .age rate of 8(94.50/day in 1974 prias..
2/A.-eing a 6k% Interet io paid to aettlers.   The ia-u  of  hat int.-et ELDA will pay cc the -eplacting case ac co t hose settled yet.



M4ALAYSIA
KEATO8G IAEO SET?LE4882 PROIECT
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984   95~  19    1987  1988  -98   1-9  199   19219    99.19    99    971                          199  2000  2001  2002  200   2006  2005
10.0  to FEDak  ((orrot pr4oe..                        .4  3.2   6.9   7.5  12.3  13.2  12.0  14.4  12.5   9.0   4.7                                                                                                                                            
loan Rep.yaeot. ito. FEDA (Ctrreot prito.)4                                                       .3   2.2   5.8   5.5   6.9   8.7   0.3.11.4312.0  12.0512.01270412.a  12.0111.5110.    9.77 8.,2 6.55   .0  33.Z 2.
(1T.0.) *.d Debt R8.Y-s,eto (to) aod fto  FEIDA    (.4) (3.2) (6.5) (6.5) (l0.1)(10.2) (8.7)(10.0) (8.1) (5.4) (2.6)   .2    .7   1.0   1.7   2.4   2.7   3.2   3.6   3.8   3.7   3.5   3.2   3.1   2.9   2.8   2.5   2.0   1.9   1.5   1.1   .8    .4    .3
other S.or.,
E.pOS To -o FaI. Oil                                                                  2    .8   2.0   3.5   5.1   6.5   7.3   7.7   7.9   7.9   7.8   7.6   7.5   7.3   7.1   6.9   6.8   6.6   6.4   6.2   6.1   5.9   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.1   4.0   2.6   1.4
Oth.et T-a.                                           -                  1    .3    .5    .6    .9   1.7   1.5   1.7   1.7   1.    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.    1.    1.    1.7   1.    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.    1.7   1.    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.6   1.5   1.4   1.5
Sob-total-                                                       .1    .3    .7   1.4   2.9   4.7   6.6   8.2   9.0   9.4   9.6   9.6   9.5   9.3   9.2   9.0   8.8   8.6   8.5   8.3   8.1   7.9   7.8   7.6   7.5   7.5   1.5   6.7   3.5   6.0   2.7
Othaar Appl1oatloo3/
S.1.rI.s .od Oporating Coot., FEtoA                        .2    .4    .7   1.0   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.2
Iof-atent-r D-e.lP.at                                 -     -    :1   2'.6   4.8   4.5   4.3   2.2    .       .5   .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3   .5    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3   .5   .1    .3    .3    .3    .3    .3
S.b-tot.1                                            .2    .5   3.3   5.8   5.9   5.8   3.8   2.4   2.1   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Not Soonl- Dafi.it                                    (.4) (3.4) (7.0) (9.7)(15.6)(15.4)(13.1)(10.9) (6.8)  (.9)  3.7   7.2   8.1   8.6   9.3   9.9  10.0  10.4  10.6  10.6  11.3  10.0   9.5   9.2   8.8   8.6   8.1   7.5   7.4   7.0   5.8   4.3   2.4   1.0
C.-1at1v  Soool.*(Defli.t)                            (.4) ((5.40.)(2.5.76  16..)(6.6(26.5(2.)36.0(7                                                                                                    45.2  54.0  62.6 7403).7.  78.2)(  85.6(.4)5.  16  92.636.   4.2   4.98.4 0.117822.7692105.1 627  106.116.
1/  Th. 18815 lom .d it. oepa.eotj or ohib th. Gooant .t. a. 98 load.t5   . t Uh.-
2!  Se A-oe  12, Tble 1.
3!Se A- 9. Table 2.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT
Settler Selection Criteria and Legal Status
Settlement Procedures
1.        FELDA schemes are intended mainly for rural people who either
possess no land or have insufficient land to obtain an adequate standard
of living. Settlement procedures would be similar to those practiced
under the Jengka projects.
2.        The Federal Government stipulates that 20% of places in all
FELDA schemes will be available to ex-members of the security forces
possessing the minimum qualifications. The States require that 50% of
the settlers (other than ex-servicemen) should be from the State in which
the development takes place, provided prospective settlers possess the
minimum qualifications.
3.        Selection is in two stages.  First, applicants are interviewed
in their home districts throughout Malaysia by FELDA staff and local offi-
cials who know the district and its people. At this stage the candidates'
general suitability is determined and the basic minimum criteria for selec-
tion applied. These are that the candidate:
(a) is a Malaysian citizen;
(b) is married;
(c) has no serious criminal record;
(d) is physically and mentally fit;
(e) is prepared to abide by the rules and regulations
established by FELDA;
(f) has less than two acres of land; and
(g) is over 18 and under 35 (formerly over 21 and
under 45); ex-servicemen and policemen up to
40 years of age.
4.        Following the interview, points are awarded to each candidate,
up to a maximum of 30, on the following scales:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(A)       Age     Points      Age      Points     Age      Points
18        5         24       10         30        6
19        6         25       10         31        5
20        7         26       10         32        4
21        8         27        9         33        3
22        9         28        8         34        2
23       10         29        7         35        1
(B)       Number of                    Ownership
Children      Points         of Land            Points
5 and above      5          Under 1/2 acre         5
4           4          1/2 acre               4
3           3          1 acre                 3
2           2          1-1/2 acres            2
1           1          2 acres                1
0           0
(C)       Bonus Points -_Agricultural Background           Points
Rubber                                           6
Oil palm                                         6
Dusun or vegetable cultivation                   1
Animal husbandry                                  1
5.        The final selection is made by FELDA Headquarters on the above
points system, after allotting a number of places to ex-servicemen.
6.        Development Period.  On arrival at a scheme - some 2.5 years
after clearing - the settler signs the first part of the settlers' agree-
ment. This provides that in return for being permitted to settle on the
scheme, the settler works under the direction of FELDA on the development
of the scheme. The settler is paid a minimum of M$ 3.50 per day, about
M$ 90 a month, for his work and if no work is available, he receives a
subsistence loan at the same rate. The settler is required to abide by
all rules and regulations of the Authority and if he breaks them, or if
he is considered unsuitable in conduct, he may be required to leave the
scheme.
7.        Post Development Period.  At the end of the 6th year after
clearing the settler, assuming his performance is satisfactory, signs the
second part of his agreement - the Supplement Agreement. This changes the
status of the settler from, in effect, an employee of the Authority to that
of a smallholder. He is registered as an occupier in expectation of title
of approximately 14 acres of oil palm and a 1/4 acre house lot. In the
case of oil palm, because it is not practical to cultivate oil palms ini-
tially as smallholdings under the FELDA system, he is not allocated a
specific area, but is assigned to a group of 20 to maintain and harvest
a 280 acre block. Once the settler has paid off his loan the Authority



ANNEX 9
Page 3
will recommend to the State Government that the State alienate to the
settler the house lot, on a 99-year lease. The 14 ac oil palm will be
alienated to a cooperative society of which the settler is a member.
8.        During the period when any loan repayments or charges are due by
the settler to FELDA or the State, the area is managed and administered by
FELDA. At all times the settler is required to sell all ffb to mills speci-
fied by FELDA for which he shall receive the average price received by FELDA
over the preceding three months after deducting transport, processing, dis-
tribution, mill amortization and upkeep costs and a replanting reserve charge
(Annex 10, Table 6). FELDA also collects a replanting less of M$ 51 ton FFB
whichi would be redistributed among settlers at the time of replanting.
Although this is a form of forced saving the interest FELDA would pay on
these savings remains to be decided.
9.        Under the First Jengka Project Loan 533-MA, it was also Drovided
that Jengka settlers would bear the project headquarters and scheme Marsge.-
ments costs during the development and operating periods. This arrangemenL
has since been altered and FELDA and the Government have introduced new
arrangements. Recovery of FELDA's administration costs from settlers is
related to the f.o.b. price. For palm oil, no costs are charged if the
f.o.b. prices is below M$ 370/ton. The management levy is proportional to
f.o.b. price and is roughly equivalent to one third of incremental income.
The minimum levy is M$ 1/ton of f.f.b. when the f.o.b. price of oil is
YS 380/ton.  The maximum levy of M$ 9.50 at an f.o.b. price of M$ 510/ton
and above would fully cover management cost.
10.       Settlers Loans.  A loan account is opened for each settler which
would be charged with the cost of his house, including clearing the house
lot, and of developing 14 ac of oil palms. At the end of the fifth year,
settlers would be issued with a statement showing the amount of the loan
and the repayment due. The statements would also include any loans for
tools, etc.
11.       Interest is charged at 6-1/4% on the loan and would be capitalized
over the development period. This is lower than commercial rates and it re-
flects Government's desire to provide settlers with reasonable income oppor-
tunities.
12.       Loans are repaid by equal annual installments of principal and
interest over a period of 15 years commencing on the first day of the sixth
year. Loan repayments would be deducted at source from payments made by the
FELDA-owned and operated mills to settlers for their production. The costs
of fertilizers and other inputs would also be recovered in this way.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Oil Palm Settler's Legal Position
Year -                          Legal Status              Loan Repayment
1                                     -     )  Loan amount increasing with var-
2                                     -     )  ious development expenditures.
3                                           )
4)  Works under direction                   )
5)  of Felda                                )
6)        Signs settler agreement, becomes
occupier in expectation of title
to individual ownership or to a
share in a large block of oil palms
in common with a group of other
settlers.
7         Loan repayment commences.         )
8/10      Continues as in Year 7-8.         )
11        During year, becomes occupier   )  Loan repayment continues.
in expectation of title to a    )
specific 14 acre block of oil )
palms.                           )
12/21     Continues as in Year 11.          )
22        Lease granted to settler by       )  Loan repayment terminates.
State.
1/   Clearing takes place at the end of year 1.



MALAYSIA
IERATONG LND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer 1/ Cost Per Acre of Oil Palm
Rate of Avplication           Price of Fertilizer                        Cost Per Acre
3RD YEAR                                                                                                                                                             (Ms)
EPK Yellow Compound                         at 9 oz per point;  four rounds                135 lb/acre                NPE Yellow @ MS 590/m.ton                     36.1
4TH YEAR
One round of the following fertilizers
CCM No. 44 (12: 6 : 22 : 3)                 at 16 oz per point                              60 'lb/acre               CCN 44 @ MS 363/m. ton                         9.8
Rock Phasphate                              at 12 oz per point                              45 lb/acre                 Rock Phosphate @ MS 167/m. ton                3.4
CCM No. 44 (12: 6 : 22  : 3)                at 24 oz per point                              90 lb/acre                CCM 44 @ MS 363/m.ton                         14.8
CCM No. 44 (12   6 : 22 :  3)               at 24 oz per point          :                   90 lb/acre                 CCM 44 e MS 363/m. ton                       14.8
Muriate of Potash                           at 16 oz per point                              60 lb/acre                 Muriate of Potash @ MS 365/m. ton             9,9
TOTAL            52.8
5TH YEAR
Nitro 26                                    @ 2-3A  lbs per point       :                  165 lb/acre                 Nitro 26 @ MS 370/ m.ton                     27.7
Rock Phosphate                              @ 2 lb per point             :                 120 lb/acre                 Rock Phosphate @ MS 167/m. ton                9.1
Muriate of Potash                           @4 lb per point              :                 240 lb/acre                 Muriate of Potash @ MS 365/m. ton            39.7
Kieserite                                   @ 1 lb per point             :                  60 lb/acre                 Kieserite @ ml 390/n. ton                    10.6
Based on the experience of similar soils the following additional fertilizers will be applied after foliar analysis:
Nitro 26                                    @ 21 lb per point            :                 120 lb/acre                 Nitro 26 e MS 370/m. ton                     20.1
Rock Phosphate                              @  2 lb per point            :                 120 lb/acre                 Rock Phosphate @ MS 167/m. ton                9.1
Muriate of Potash                           @  2 lb per point            :                 120 lb/acre                 Muriate of Potash 0 MS 365/m. ton            19.8
Kieserite                                   0  1 lb per point                               60 lb/acre                 Kieserite @ MS 390/m. ton                    10.6
TOTAL            146.7
6TH YEAR
Nitro 26                                    @ 2-3/4 lb per point                            165 lb/acre                Nitro 26 @ MS 370/r. ton                     27.7
Rock Phosphate                              @ 2-1/2 lb per point                           150 lb/acre                 Rock Phosphate @ MlS 167/m. ton               11.3
Nuriate of Potash                           ( 5 lb per point             :                 300 lb/acre                 Muriate of Potash @ MS 365/r. ton            49.7
Kieserite                                   @ 1-1/2 lb per point         :                  90 lb/acre                 Kieserite @ MS 390/m. ton                     15-9
Additional fertilizers after foliar analysis estimated as per 3RD YEAR                                                                                              59.6
TOTAL             164.2
7TH to OTH YEAR
Nitro 26                                    @ 3.7 lb per point                             222 lb/acre                 Nitro 26 @ MS 370/m. ton                      37.2
Rock Phosphate                              @ 3 lb per point             :                  180 lb/acre                Rock Phosphate @ MS 167/m. ton                13.6
Muriate of Potash                           0 6 lb per point             :                 360 lb/acre                 Muriate of Potash @ MS 365/m. ton             59.6
Kieserite                                   0 2 lb per point             :                 120 lb/acre                 Kieserite @ MS 390/m. ton                     21.2
Additional fertilizers after foliar analysis estimates as per 3RD YEAR                                                                                               59-6
TOTAL             191.2
11TH YFAR and onwards
57 trees per acre;  5% less than in 10th year                                                                                                                       181.6
Source:  FELDA and Mission Estimates
1 metric ton = 2204 lbs
1/  Fertilizer amounts for 54,000 acre Oil Palm development financed under Project (8 years):  (i) NPK Yellow Compound 3,100 tons;  (ii)  CCM 44, 6,000 tons;
(iii) Nitro 26, 22,600 tons;  (iv) Rock Phosphate 21,400 tons;  (v) Muriate of Potash 32,800 tons;  (vi) Kieserite 11,200 tons.



MALAYS IA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Settlers' Wages and Labor Input per Acre of Oil Palm per Year If
4                                             7                       7
Calendar Year                   Apr. - Dec.         5             6           Jan. - Sept.            Oct. - Dec.       8-12          13          14           15        16-30
Man-days       Man-days       Man-days         Man-days                Man-days     Man-days    Man-days    Man-days    Man-days    Man-days
Weeding                            12.0             15.0            6.0            4.0                      2.0          6.0         6.0         6.0          4.0          4.0
Palm Manuring                       1.0              2.0            2.0            1.5                     0.5           2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0          2.0
Pests and Diseases                  0.3              0.5            0.5            0.3                     0.3           0.5         0.5         0.5          0.5          0.5
Harvesting 2/                        -               3.0            9.0             7.0                     2.0          9.0        10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0
Maintenance Works                   1.0              2.0            2.0            1.5                      0.5          2.0         2.0          2.0         2.0          2.0
Pollination                          -               2.0            3.0            2.0                      1.0          3.0         3.0         3.0          2.0           -
Foliar Analysis                                      0.3            0.3            0.2                      0.1          0.3         0.3         0.3          0.3          0.3
Harvesting Platforms                 -               0.3             -               -                                                -            -           -            -
Castration                          1.5              0.5             -               _                       -            -           _            _           _            _
Supplying                           0.3               -              _              _                        _       -
Late planting in drained
areas                               0.3               -              -               -                       -            -           -            -           -            -
Drains                              1.2              0.2             -               -                       -            -           -           _                         _
Total  (man-days)            17.6             25.8          22.8            16.5                     6.4          22.8        23.8        23.8         20.8         18.8
Labor Cost at
3.50/man-day (N1)           61.6             90.3          79.8            57.8
Total for 14 acre
holding (m-days)           246.4            361.2         319.2           231.0                    89.6         319.2       333.2       333.2        291.2        263.2
Wage Income/Settler (MO)   862.4           1,264.2        1,117.2          808.5
Until handing over the plantings to settler cooperatives under the "block system" (fourth quarter of the seventh year) settlers receive wage income
from FELDA, which becomes part of their debt
2/
Includes frond pruning and sanitation.
Suc:FELDA and Mission estimates



Table 3
MALAYSIA
BEEATONG LAND SMETLIEM9T PROJECT
Agricultural Development Costs per Acre of Oil Palm
(Ms)
1         2         3        4         5          6         7                  Total
Oct-Dec                                                     Jan-Sept
Land Clearing and Planting
Payments to Contractors
(a) Land Clearing
Felling                            52.2      26.1       8.7                                                         87.0
Burning                             -         5.4       o.6                                                          6.0
Pruning, Stacking, Reburning        -        67         7.3                                                         73.0
Total                  52.2      97.2      16.6                                                        166.0
(b)  Others
Lining                              -         6.3       0.7
Jeep Tracks                         -        14.4       1.6                                                         16.0
Platforms                           -        10.8       1.2                                                         12.0
Maintenance of Pruned Areas         -        15.9       1.7                                                         17.6
Cover Crop Planting                 -        37.8       4.2                                                         42.0
Cover Crop Maintenance              -        17.6    105.6       35.2                                              158.4
Palm Planting (Labor)               -        24.0       6.0       1.0                                               31.0
Manuring Covers (Labor)             -         1.7       0.7        -                                                 2.4
Manuring Palms (Labor)              -          -        L.L4                                                         4.4
Total                   -       128.5    126.1       36.2                                              290.8
Fertilizers and Pesticides
Manure for Cover Crops                  -          7.4       7.4       -          -         -         -                  14.8
Fertilizers for Oil Palms               -           -       36.1      52.8      146.7    164.2    143-4                 543.2
Pests and Diseases                      -           -        7.2       6.0        6.0       8.4       6.3                33.9
Total                  -          7.4      50.7      58.8      152.7     172.6    149.7                591.9
Planting Materials                          -        111.0       5.6       3.7        -         -         -                 120.3
Upgrading of Roads and Culverts
Lateriting                              -          -          -       22.0      44-0        -         -                  66.o
Culverts                                _-                             -        42.0-                 -                  42.0
Total                  -          -          -       22.0      86.0        -         -                 108.O
Other FELDA Expenditures
Timber Removal   /                      -         11.7       1.3       -                                                 13.0
Harvesters' Paths  v                    -         12.6       1.4       -                                                 14.0
Drains                                  -          -          -        1.7                                                1.7
Supplying   3-                          -          -         3.9       -                                                  3.9
Maintenance (Drains, Roads,Platform.)30 -          0.7       4.0       1.5                                                6.2
Pests and Disease Control (Labor)  /    -          1.3       3-9       1.0                                                6.2
Settler Tools                           -           -         -        3.0                                                3.0
Survey and Census                       -           -         -        1.0                                                1.0
Total                  -         26.3      14.5       8.2                                               49.0
Settlers Wages   /                          _-                    -       61.6      90.3       79.8      57.8               289.5
TOTAL                                       52.2     370.4    213.5      190.5     329.0      252-4    207.5              1,615-5
v under separate contract.
may be included in main contract
3 by casual labor until settlers move in on April 1 of fourth year
v detailed in Table 2 of this Annex.



ANNEX 10
Table 4
KAYSik
KERhTONG LAND SETTUEMENT PROJECT
?FB Sales on 14 icre Oil Palm Holding During Development Period
Project Year                                      6            7
Jan-Sept.
Tons FFB                             4.2         33.6          57.4
Oil (tons)                            .6          5.3          10.3
Kernel (tons)                         .1           .9           1.8
Exaill value of Oil
a M$560/t  1/                    336        2,968         5,768
Exuill value of Kernel
* H$236/t I/                      24          212            425
Total exmill value (M$)            460        3,180         6,193
Less: Processing and Transport
costs * M$20/t FFB                84          672         1,148
Net Sales (M$)                      376       2,508         5,045
1/ see Annex 10, Table 6.



MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Loan Account of Typical Settler on 14 acre Oil Palm Holding
1         2          3          4          5         6         7
Oct-Dec                                                        Jan-Sept         Total
Agricultural Development Costs./   731         5,185      2,989     2,667      4,606      3,534      2,905         22,617
House and Houselot Development         9          59        728       990        180          -          -1,966
Total                          740      5,244      3,717      3,657      4,786     3,534      2,905         24,583
Physical Contingency            37        262        186        183        239       177        145         (1,229)
Less:  Net FFB Sales             -           -         -          -       (376)   (2,508)   (5,045)         (7,929)
Net Development Cost2/               777       5,506      3,903     3,840      4,649      1,203    (1,995)         17,883
Interest at 6¾%                  6        222        529        804      1,149     1,485      1,443          5,638
Annual Loan                    783      5,728      4,432      4,644      5,798      2,688       (552)             -
Accumulated Loan               783      6,511    10,943    15,587    21,385    24,073    23,521              23,521
Annual Loan Repayment for 15 years compounded at 6¼Z:  M$2,461 in constant 1974 prices.  Price increases are
expected to raise the annual loan repayment to about
1/   See Annex 10, Table 3                                 M$3,h00/holding.
2/   Excluding Price Contingencies
ID n
0



IOATONG LAN) SE7TLEHENT FPROJECT
Fore Bud.et for 14 acre Oil Pal. Holding
0%000)
7       8        9       10        11       12        13       14       15        16       17        18       19       20        21       22        23       24       25      26-30
Calendar Year                                                            Qnrter
Produactfon
Tons FFB                                                              26.6    109.2    116.2    123.2    127.4    128.8    127.4    124.6    121.8    119.0    116.2    113.4    110.6    107.8    103.0    102.2           99.4     96.6      93.8      92.4
Ton. Oil                                                               4.8     20.7      23.8     25.9     26.7      27,0     26.7     26.2      25.6     24.9      24.4     23.8     23.2      22.7     22.0      21.4     20.9     20.3      19.6      19.5
Tone Kernel                                                            0,9       3.9      4.6      5.2      5.3       5.4      5.3       5.2      1.1      5.0       4.9      4.8       4.6      4.5      4.4       4.3      4.2       4.1      3.9       3.9
c.i,f. Value of Oil 01   US$ 300/nt !/           M$ 735/nt oil
Ln.e:  Freight US$ 30/nt                         H$  747st oil
Insurooce, }T of 1107 c.i.f. Value        MS  4/nt oil
f.o.b. Price of O4l/                             94 657/nt oil              3.Z      13.6     15.6     17.0      17.5     17.7     17.5      17.2     16.8      16.4     16.0     15.6      11.2     14.9     14.5      14.1     13.7      13.3     12.9      12.8
Less:  Export Tax £/                             1   76/nt oil                .4      1.6      1.8      2.0       2.0      2.1       2.0      2.0      1.9       1.9      1.9       1.8      1.8      1.7       1.7      1.6       1.6      1.5      1.5       1.5
FELDA NHrketing Charge                    M4   3/nt oil
FKLOA EUokDin  Installation Cents         H$   7/nt oil
FELDA Distrib.tino  Costs                 M A  11/nt oil
Ex-mill Valne of Oil                             9$ 560/nt
Doentic Fries of Kernel.                         M$ 300/nt kernels
Less:  FEIDlt Marketing Chargee                  14$  3/mt kernels
FELDA Bagging Charges                     MS  l1/nt kernels
Ex-dill Value of Karnels                         K$ 286/nt
E.-mill Value per Noldien
Oil                                                                    2.7      11.6     13.3     14.5    1.0       15.1      15.0     14.7      14.3     13.9     13.7      13.3     13.0     12.7      12.3     12.0      11.7     11.4      11.0     10.9
Kernels                                                                 .3       1.1      1.3       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      I.S       1.4      1.4      1.4       1.4      1.3       1.3      1.3      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.1      1.1
Total                                                                        3.0     12.7     14.6      16.0     16.5     16.6      16.5     16.2      15.7     15.3     15.1      14.7     14.3      14.0     13.6      13.2     12.9     12.6      12.1     12.0
Less:  FELUA CharRs.
Procssing and Transport 4/                9$  20/nt FFB               .5       2.2      2.3      2.5       2.5      2.6       2.5      2.5      2.4       2.4      2.3       2.3      2.2      2.2       2.1      2.0       2.0      1.9      1.9       1.8
Fertiliser, Peat and Diass..  Control 5/ HS 190/c-r                   .7       2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7
Other. 6/                                                             -         .2       .2       .2        2        .2        2        .2        2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2
Nanagmenot Levy 7/                        94$  10/nt FF8              .3       1.1      1.2       1.2      1.3      1.1       1.3      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1        .8                -         -        -
Neplanting Ce..                           H$  5/nt FFB                .1       .5       .6        .6       .6       .6        .6       .6        .6       .6        .6       .6       .6       .S        .5        .S       .S       .S       .S        .S
Loan Repayent _/                                                      .6       2.2      2.1      1.9       1.8      1.7       1.6      1.5       1.4      1.4      1.3       1.2      1.1       1.1      1.0       .7        -        -
State and Land Tax                               M$  I/nt                    -        .2       .2       .2        .2        .2       .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2        .2       .2        .2
Settler  7ncome 9/                                                    .8       3.6      5.3      6.7       7.2      7.3       7.4      7.3       7.0      6.6      6.6       6.4      6.2       6.0      S.8      6.1       7.3      7.1       6.6      6.6
I/ bank ndion price forfctat for 1980.
2/ Sea Annex 13, Table 2.
1/ On-ard Nhsrfags          84  1.20/ton nil
S_ling Analysis        M8   .40/ton oil
Transport               84  8.00/ton oil
Insurgne-               H    .40/ton oil
9POFA L1y               5i   .80/ton  il
OPGC C.S.               H$   .SO/ton oil
M$  1l.30/ton oil
4/ Overhead Factory Cost  K$  2.50/too FFI
Variable Frodoction Cost    4.00/too FF8
Azrtizatiom Charge           7.00/ton FF8
Schete to  1ll Transport   6.00/ton  8
MS 19 .50/too FFB
S/  4$ 182/acre for fertiller, see Annes 10  Table 1.   4$ 8/Vcce for pent control, Ase Aate 10. Tabl. 3.
7/  Agricultural Inno-ence       M$ 2.0 acre
Charge for Foliar Analy.ia  MI 1.0 I cre
HS0 3.0 acre_ 
and Contribution to Settler
Development Fund          H$ 1/nt FFB
7/ Asemning that the FPB price does not fell bhao  M$ 570/toa.
8/ A.noring a no.-inl loon obligation of 1$ 3,400/year. declining at 67. tn terms of 197h price.
9/ A. similar inflation rates  crf forace.t for the Kyal.yan .-conony and the international coenodity carket.. nO  igtifica.t change in the settler'. tern.  of trade iL expected.



ANNEX 11.
MALAYSIA
K,YiA'rON' LAND SETTLGMNT PtWOJCT
Oil Palm Yield Estimates
Calendar Year -        FFB              % oil            Oil in            % Kernel       Kernel
in               to FFB           Tons per          to FB          in tons
Tons per                          Acre                             per Acre
Acre
5                 0.3               12               .04               2.4            .007
6                 2.4               16               .38               2.8            .067
7                 6.0               18              1.08               3.2            .192
8                 7.8               19              1.48               3.6             .280
9                 8.3               20.5            1.70               4.0             .332
8.8               21              1.85               4.2             .370
11                 9.1               21              1.91               4.2             .38?
12                 9.2               21              1.93               4.2             .386
13                 9.1               21              1.91               4.2             .382
14                 8.9               21              1.87               4.2             .374
15                 8.7               21              1.83               4.2             .365
16                 8.5               21              1.78                4.2            .357
17                 8.3               21              1.74               4.2             .349
18                 8.1               21              1.70               4.2             .340
19                 7.9               21              1.66                4.2            .332
20                 7.7               21              1.62               4.2             .323
21                 7.5               21              1.57                4.2            .315
22                 7.3               21              1.53                4.2            .307
23                 7.1               21              1.49                4.2            .298
24                 6.9               21              1.45                4.2            .290
2-                 6.7               21              1.40                4.2            .281
26 - 30            6.6               21              1.39                4.2            .277
1/   Calendar years;  Jungle is cleared in the last quarter of the first year;
harvesting begins in the last quarter of the fifth year.



ANNEX 12
MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Economic Return
1.        Benefits.  Yield estimates are based on experience with schemes
of similar soils and topography, and are about 10% lower than yield estimates
for the Third Jengka Triangle Project.
2.        The ex-mill price of palm oil is based on a price projection of
US$300/ton cif Europe in constant 1974 dollars, which is the medium range
(US$275/325) of Bank price projections for palm oil. The ex-mill price
for palm kernels is based on the projected domestic price of M$ 286/ton in
constant 1974 dollars.
3.        Costs.  Development costs include a 5% physical contingency,
based on experience gained in the Jengka projects.
4.        Costs of water supply, school and health center constructions
were excluded from costs on the grounds that their benefits are excluded
and would at least equal costs.
5.        All costs except settler labor were valued at market prices.
For the economic rate of return, a shadow wage for labor at M$ 2.90/day
was applied. This is about equivalent to the laborer's foregone income
before joining the scheme. The wage rate FELDA currently pays to casual
laborers, and which is representative of wages for unskilled labor in the
project area is M$ 3.50/day. The use of a constant shadow wage for the
calculation of the economic rate of return implies that through the life
of the project there will remain segments of the rural population in
economic circumstances similar to present FELDA entrants. The economic
rate of return thus calculated is 23%.
6.        The rate of return was also calculated without shadow wage rates
and assuming an increase in real wages by 3% yearly starting with a base
of M$ 3.50/day in 1973. The rate of return thus calculated is 21%.
7.        Except for the incremental export taxes obtained by the Government,
the benefits of the project accrue to settlers whose present and expected
future incomes are below average Malaysian incomes. The distributional im-
pact of the project is therefore clearly favorable.



I  1h,  1;~~~~~~~,     "I                 1     00001 I0 L. I4 f 1OOO    000210
0~~~~ o~ ~ ~ ~ 'h
0.00  00  0.0 .0  0. 0.00.   0.0  .0  000  10.      10.0      00.0       0.0     0.0       000       1' 0     00.       00.0      00.0       1.0      0.0      030       04.       00.0      00.0      000      000       '',0      00 0       00000  0           000       3
1313 ~    ~       ~      00       00        0.        00       0o0       1 . -0             10         00       00        00       10         00       mo        10        0,        00       03        00       00         00       00         00       13       10         00      00           '       0'00                  m ~ o             o
0300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                             L 00000
0331--   - ---
0300 0040' 000-12 0000 I.  0~~'      0          700                     1< I          ' 0.0001           o     000      000,      OO-7l o                        01       0   4000000                 500000030                     oo~lnl             301        000     03g .70               000000,,0                   ,       
00000000000-00  0141  .0  0  0  0  00  000  0(0  0000  0000  0000     .0000    0000      0000      0000       000     0'00      000       000000000          0300      0000      0000      0050      000000100000                0000       000'0' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2 71  I070.04  . . 
00000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-                                                                                                            0         0        0         -         0         0        070                           0         0-IP  071-         0                   000                            
0000 000 00.0000000  00,,    0000                                                                                                                              0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0,0                 0         0         -         0         0a
0' 00 00 00000000  00000                                                                     ......~~~~~                                 000 ~~i3            000013000000000  .213 .......313.  .303  ....317 .~~~~~~~~....4fl                                 2                  .. r,     000       0014
0080 000000Y0  '-oooo  000  00   00   ;'"ooO0   ~0   7000               007    000,    00          00            00                           000     ",00      000       000       0000     0000       .005'    0000    U003'2O003101                  ''0       000-0000'000                  000       00
20300.o.00100                      0       0,            000           0'r 0                                                                                                                   0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0                                                      
0000 0,000000.                                    0"~'00"~~oo'0y'o                                         0'      000                          000000,10          0000     000  ~~0000T        000,1     0000000010                   0300      000       '00 :0      0      0000 0-0            0040
."I0 7 00 0l-Tl 00000LI__________                                             ___                   1- 0,  ll           7  .>  _____                                     00        07      00R00               00          0 0 0 0 0                    0        '0o                   '       0
0000 0.00000  0                                     ______0000                        000    0000    0000    1    o~~00              0 00T0003         0000      0000      0000     0000      10~0'"T3''30""'57770           '''~     :00..         o0j ~ ~ 0                 ,0'        000       0.0      00,j00
'711  '.1171, 17,10                            0         0        0                                                                             o                                               0         0         000                                                                            000
000000                                                                               0                                                        00      000       00000               0000                00       00       053         010.   0Z..2I o"3    72                         '         00100              000       00000                  0 0
0070 00000000.          0        0        0                                               00       00       (00                        "'7033  ~W' ""''3333 ""03007 "'"030007             00300030            000      007       200       00700000000                  000       0000 9"""0035'7      0 0                            00,
loss 00,'00 00000~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4                                                                  --r       -T7 
000   000000000400  0  0                                                                                                                         00         00       000      00        010       00        000       00.      013       000       000       00'       00       000       0         001       00
0 0  030  (05     030      000       030       030       Coo       000       030      oso       00        000        00       000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
____                                                  _____                                                 000      0 00'OoOoOOOOOSo                                000~~'  Lll~7    M3-    000  00  020 ,'7361       >0       00        0          200                 0____0_9
0000 000I 0007___ __                                                                                         I __ _i__ __707__ _4 `___  .ooI o    ,o 9  I_I_ __ 'l                                            ___"_1, ~  I R    L r       19    7   1    I     ,     ,     I      [1 0   0    00"~~  "    00     0' 0      0         I
PO,OOO0000000                        000         ~~00"""3'0000~003'                              """07         0 00       oo    <'003      0'33'0"""00'3  "''707        101 ""3307          000    ""370,      0370       Ob        070   "07'0 "''700   ""¶033           '30-0"70033          01  "''7070  ""   3           0       '03
030000   .00             0        .00000           0000      000       000        00      00"         000000             '73      0000     040,.   000000020                     00        0'0       003000.              oO0       0000100070                  000       000       03o      000       000       0.00      000       0000
0000.,oooo.ooo  0,0  000  -"o<   ool'" -ooooo    000i   ,7000           0000      Lob     '005      0077    OOOO        0000   00',    0000         0000000,0700                  0000     0000      3000    00003037             0.010    3000        010     3000    3401          0'00    00'0    30''   1000,.00006






Tabl2
MALAYSIA
K iyu.'TONG LGND SETT[EMNT PROJECT
Export Tax Schedule for Palm Oil
Tax on            Total        Effective
FeO.B. Price           Marginal        Marginal           Export       Export
Ml                 Tax Rate         M$ 50              Tax         Tax Rate
350                   7-1/2            _               26.25          7.50
400                  10               5.00             31.25          7.81
450                  12-1/2           6.25             37.50          8.33
500                  15               7.50             45.00          9.00
550                  17-1/2          875              53.75          9.77
600                  20              10.00             63.75         10.63
650                  22-1/2          11.25             75.00         11.53
700                  25              12.50            87.50          12.50
750                  30              15.00            102.50         13.66
800                  30              15.00            117.50         14.69
Source: FELDA






IBRD 11036
101                                102'                                1032'104                                       APRIL 1974
-T;W,* 'A                        <                                                               MALAYSIA
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Parg4Besor
T H A I L A N D                                                  PROPOSED FELDA SCHEMES IN PAHANG STATE:
5ffi9   OW  wy  \,,/It,                          -.      . \                                                      f    PROJECT AREA
>   Kbn orl   X             i                                                                                      1 3  OTHER SCHEMES UODER THINRD MALAYSIA PLAN
VU   X    t  IJItrom3/  {f    _t    '                ,  "t. Tumpn                         EXISTING  FELDA  SCHEMES.
Alor Setor                                             :   /  %Str$>Koto Bhrzru                         _     RESEARCH CENTER
-6-  \  \\^ <gS! $ n 9 ) | t \ R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUB8ER SCHEMES6
6'                                           M                                                                    / J . . {  . DOIL PALM SCHEMES
K ED A h    r-                r    ,        )              \ Puteh'  KJmpong                        SUGAR CANE PROJECT
S u n c l r n m > \Bal ing                                                                      PE ; \Sff i / _     Rr  jr  FF DER A L   RO A DS    A ND   RO U TE   N U M BERS
sunge\                                                                                                             OTHER PRINCIPAL R0ADS
GRo   @      BuIIor~orth     j       )          -1 j       /                         ,,           X           .   er-    STATE BOUNDARIES
pt7V.4,A V9,  -<A1 |         r-         0  <                >   -'        ~        '.n    ?r                      ,             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KuralaKorca n,fZ < J' E ' \ MILES
Port WId,  Toipng /                                                                                            SD    2S    40    60  8RD    lO
.    .,   ,  r~'.   Kucla Dunqi  KEDILOMETERS
> KualKo n sor
W/                Ip foh    -   t                         _;=,.      --       ,..   
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2   t              Ac~~~~~~meron  <     (                   2      _               
<>tetching Jcyu,  u \.t                   3
\  5\> 06 bniOri.4eAo sto on dhds n,op do no  e  lEd     
bnpO' O4rlem7ent or &-eopta7nee by do'                                 i  \          3 <   >4                                         t
is T             Kntuo'''                                                                     -, il           W'         t
30   eA      ed to oEUffdio S6t73 eM                                                      a    -                     f  
i  - 0 " 1..,\S  ,  m<k~~~~~~~~~0so
LEPLThIAC \~,  H N *>>rK O   N   EX  S   r   ^   i     ~                  %        xfA               103S                  /
A         S~~~~~~~~~~~Pr                                                                                                    shoEngr
~~~~~~NDQNE$1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OA4GAPOES   ~~     ~~"~'-.'~"                                                                                              -~ INGAPORE






102b 50'                                              1020 55B                                                   103l oW         TO WANTAN
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                         /TOKU4NT        l
KERATONG LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                /
PROJECT SCHEMES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                    /
SCHEME
[IiiZIII  FELDA RESIDENTIAL AREA
NON-FELDA RESIDENTIAL AREA
COMMERCIAL AND CIVIC CENTER                                                           _ <
-3 00                         INDUSTRIAL ZONE                                                                         C00
TOWN FOREST RESERVES                                                                                                         /
PALM  OIL MILL                                                                 J'
-------- PEDESTRIAN AND CYCLE PATH
TOWN ROADS                                                                                                               /           A,                A
--PROPOSED  HIGHWAYS                                                                                                              / :  ,M
RIVERS (SUNGAI)                                                                                                      /
0s9-   FORMLINES, APPROXIMATE 250FOOT VERTICAL INTERVALS                                                                   /
- - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   S                                                            E    G     -              /"'(/
WN21
KILOMETERS
MILES
-2° 55'                                                                                                                                           - \ .P                                   20 55
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
TOBAHAU                      F                                          i0
>           ;t0*0000                          N!/                       !,                                ) 4           -           i      \            :       r     t/ 
-2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 N0'0
I'I eOOOCrOwU              CHtaINA         C<I                                                                             
K   EAH4UA                 \T->. IN                               J                                   I-
SUNGAI                                             C        (
NG    102, 50*                           102* 5S                                                    TOSEGAMAT                                     500



