GILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-162la-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED INCREASE
IN THE CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
RAHAD IRRIGATION
PROJECT
June 11, 1975
This report was.prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without .Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCIES, WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =      ESd 0.345 (official rate)
US$1.00          =      tSd 0.400 (effective rate)
ESd 1.00         =      US$2.872 (official rate)
tSd 1.00         =     US$2.50 (effective rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric and Local Units)
1 meter (m)           =      39.37 in
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 miles
1 cubic meter (m3)           35.31 cubic feet
1 milliard m3         =      1,000 million m3 (810,700 acre feet)
1 m3 per second
(m3/sec)            =     35.31 cubic feet per second (cusec)
1 kilogram (kg)       =      2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =      2.204 lb (0.98 long ton)
1 feddan (fed)        =      0.420 hectares (1.038 acres)
1 large kantar         =     312 lb of seed cotton
1 small kantar         =     99.05 lb of cotton lint
1 kg/fed              =      2.38 kg/ha (2.123 lb/acre)
1 large kantar/fed
(kpf)               =     337 kg/ha (300 lb/acre)
ConNersion Factors
Ginning out-turn of Acala cotton - 40% lint
50% seed
1% scarto
Decorticated groundnuts             60% nuts in shell
ABBREVIATIONS
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
MOI   -   Ministry of Irrigation
PEWC  -   Public Electricity and Water Corporation
PCIW  -   Public Corporation for Irrigation Works



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PROPOSING AN INCREASE IN THE CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR
THE RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposal to
increase development credit No. 364-SU to the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan for the Rahad Irrigation Project by the equivalent of $20 million to
$62 million, on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission from the Bank visited the Sudan in November/
December 1971 and its report entitled "The Economic Development and Prospects
of the Sudan" (Report No. AE-27, in four volumes, dated June 9, 1972) was
distributed on June 30, 1972 (R72-179). This was the first full economic
mission to the Sudan after a lapse of several years but, owing to continued
political unrest in the southern part of the country at that time, the mis-
sion's coverage was limited to Northern Sudan. In March 1972, the Govern-
ment reached an agreement (The Addis Ababa Accord) with the southern dissident
elements, as a result of which peace returned to the South and a Southern
Regional Government with a large measure of autonomy was established in Juba.
At that time, the Bank was requested to assist in the reconstruction and
development of the Southern Region, which had suffered much physical destruc-
tion during the prolonged strife. A special economic mission visited the
Region in November/December 1972, and its report on development problems and
prospects in the Region was distributed on June 25, 1973 (R73-159) (Report
No. 119a-SU, dated June 1, 1973). Country data are attached as Annex I.
Recently Bank staff have participated in the ILO World Employment Mission
to Sudan and this work has served to bring our knowledge of the Sudanese
economy up-to-date and provide new insights into the problems facing it.
The mission's report will be available in the second half of 1975.
3.        The Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa. Although a large part of the country consists of desert
or semi-desert, the Sudan has a great untapped potential for agricultural
development. About one-third (200 million feddans or 87 million hectares)
of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only
a small fraction of this land is presently utilized. In addition, the White
Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled the
country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The
Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to over half of that allocated
to Sudan under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there remains room
for a considerable further expansion in irrigation in arid areas of thle coun-
try. The proximity of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places
it in an excellent position for agricultural exports, and oil producing Arab
countries have increasingly come to consider Sudan as a primary future source
of agricultural products.



4.        According to the most recent estimates of population the population
of the Sudan is about 16.5 million people, and has been growing at a rate of
over 2.5 percent a year during the 1960s. Much of the land is unoccupied or
very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many developing countries, there
is no population pressure on presently developed land. Indeed, in some parts
of the Sudan, a shortage of labor in combination with hard soils may dictate
mechanized techniques of agricultural production.
5.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is a poor
country. GNP is estimated at US$125 per capita, and the country is included
among the UN's twenty-five Least Developed Countries. The economy is heavily
dependent on cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land,
and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing
resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing sector is relatively
small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural commodities, it is
limited to the production of consumer goods and building materials. There
is some potential for mining--chrome, iron ore, asbestos and copper. There
have been some exports of chrome ore and the feasibility of developing the
other deposits is receiving attention. The public sector has long been
important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facil-
ities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. After the
nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although
some industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about
half of the GDP is still generated within the public sector.
6.        The Sudan's economic development has been disappointing in recent
years. During the period 1965-72, the Sudanese economy was characterized
by relatively slow growth. It suffered from a declining level of investment--
private and public--a marked decline in external aid, rapid monetary expansion,
and inflationary price increases. This unsatisfactory performance was partly
caused by the preoccupation of the Government with acute political problems,
particularly the disturbances in the South which divided the country and
represented a serious drain on resources. With this problem settled, the
Government has been able to give more attention to its economic policy, and
as a result greater emphasis is now given to development. In seeking to
re-establish the momentum of development in the economy to utilize Sudan's
potential, the Government has been faced with two major problems. The first
was to.step up the volume of investment from its recent low level, in both
the public and private sectors. The second was to overcome the major physical
constraints, particularly the inadequacy of the transport system which is
presently strangling the growth of the economy.
7.        While total investment in the Sudan was stationary during the period
1967-73, the current development plan provides for an ambitious investment
program. An increase of about 40% was achieved in 1973/74 and a further con-
siderable increase is estimated to have occurred in 1974/75. Maintenance of
the increased level of investment will require an improved capacity in plan-
ning and project identification. The Bank is executing a project financed by
the UNDP to strengthen the relatively complex central planning organization



which already exists. The Bank also sent a mission to review the statistical
system of the Sudan and has made recommendations for improvements. The Govern-
ment itself is now considering a reorganization of its planning system. These
steps should result in improvements in the planning and evaluation functions
in the medium term.
8.        In planning its investment program for the longer term, the Sudan
faces difficult balancing choices. It must emphasize expansion of production
in the modern agricultural sector to expand export earnings. This will imply
expansion and improvement of irrigated farming, which is highly capital inten-
sive but high yielding, and mechanized dry-land farming which directly ben-
efits only small numbers of people. It must also promote agriculture in the
poorer parts of the country, which would yield much less for export and re-
quire less investment, but would benefit much larger numbers of the poorest
people and lead to a better regional balance in incomes. Another choice will
concern the extent of mechanization in a situation where much labour is only
available seasonally, and where such labour surpluses as do exist might be
quickly reduced by investment in the home areas. Other questions concern
the incentive structure in the economy, on which the recent ILO mission is
expected to make recommendations, the extent to which industrial expansion
should be encouraged, and the extent to which expansion of transportation
facilities in advance of demand is justified for reasons of cohesive devel-
opment.
9.        A major challenge for the Government will be to mobilize domestic
and external resources to finance the higher level of development expenditure.
At present, public savings are not adequate to finance even half of the
projected level of development expenditure. The IMF has had a series of
stand-by arrangements with the Sudan and in both the IMF's consultations
and the Bank's discussions with the Government, specific recommendations
have been made regarding budgetary and fiscal measures needed to improve
the financial situation. The tax burden is relatively high, and the most
urgent measures are curtailment of current expenditure and a movement
towards increased financial viability of public corporations. These meas-
ures can only be effective over time, and the level of public sector invest-
ment in the Sudan over the next few years will be, to a great extent, a
function of the inflow of external assistance.
10.      'In this connection Sudan's association with the Arab oil-exporting
nations may well be the key. The expectation is that Sudan may be able to
meet the food import requirements of many of these countries. A number of
them, through the medium of the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development,
are considering very large investment plans in the agricultural sector and
in infrastructure required to facilitate agricultural expansion. In addition
bilateral lending is likely to continue from individual Arab countries. If
this capital inflow develops on a substantial scale it will remove one of
the major current restraints on the level of investment and help overcome
Sudan's needs for foreign exchange until its earnings of foreign exchange
from exports can rise. However, a rapidly increasing inflow of external
capital will require improved capability to plan and implement projects,



and the need for a continued firm hand on the government's finance will be
even more acute if Sudan is not to be induced by the capital inflow into
levels of public recurrent expenditure which are not sustainable in the
longer term.
11.       The inadequacy of the transportation system is undoubtedly the most
serious immediate bottleneck to the development of industry, mining, agri-
cultural processing and the economy in general. Transport in the Sudan still
depends primarily upon the railways, with a total route length of about 4,750
km. The railway has played a crucial role in the country's development from
a subsistence economy by carrying the country's steadily rising imports and
exports. However, under the pressure of growing traffic and inadequate util-
ization of the present stock of locomotives and rolling stock, railway capac-
ity is severely strained. Major capital expenditure is under way, with IDA
participation, to improve the railways' carrying capacity, and further large
investment is required. There are only 300 km of paved roads outside muni-
cipal limits, the remaining roads being poor sand and gravel tracks. A con-
siderable investment program in new roads and for improved maintenance of
existing roads has been initiated, and studies for further roads are being
undertaken. Nile River transport could play a more important role than at
present, as could domestic air transport on account of the large distances
within the country. Considerable investment in both modes is underway. An
oil pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum is under construction.
12.       Compared with most other countries in Africa, the Sudan as a whole
is quite well provided with trained manpower. This is attributable in part
to the fact that the educational system has evolved over a longer period. A
feature of the system is that although the number of children in elementary
and secondary schools is still small in relation to their total age group, a
high proportion progresses to universities and other institutions of higher
learning; enrollment in these institutions has increased rapidly. There has
been a growing problem in absorbing some of the output of the educational
system, particularly university graduates with general arts degrees. In
the recent past, the Government has been prepared, as a matter of policy,
to hire all university graduates needing jobs, but this clearly entails
considerable waste. There is an urgent need to proceed with the reorienta-
tion of the educational system to make it more responsive to the current
demands of economic deveLopment. The Government is planning an education
sector study, which will derive considerable assistance from the findings
of the ILO Employment mission.
13.       Given the huge requirements for public sector investment in the
immediate future, the roLe of the private sector in promoting growth is
recognized to be very important. Although the public sector plays a major
role in the economy, historically the attitude towards private investment
has at most times been favorable. The decline in private activity since
1965 was mainly due to the unstable political environment and the uncertainty
generated by the nationalization and confiscation measures of 1970 and 1971.
The Government has taken steps to settle compensation claims, has returned
some confiscated property and has enacted legislation providing incentives



-5-
and guarantees for private enterprises, both foreign and domestic. Although
the data are poor, it seems clear that a considerable expansion in private
investment is underway, particularly in dry land farming, transportation and
housing and there are indications of interest on the part of foreign investors.
14.       Currently, Sudan faces a difficult balance of payments situation,
partly as a result of a deterioration in the terms of trade. The increase
in oil prices is expected to treble the oil import bill from about US$22
million in 1973 to about US$68 million in 1975, but Sudan received a loan on
medium terms from its major oil supplier to help meet the cost. There is very
little room for reduction in the use of oil products, which is already tightly
constrained, but additional taxes were nevertheless imposed in an attempt to
contain imports. The food import bill rose by 40% from 1972 to 1973 and,
on the basis of nine months figures, further increases occurred in 1974.
The principal cause was the increased cost of sugar and wheat. A major
expansion in domestic production of both these commodities is under way,
which will soon remove this drain on foreign exchange. Other imports,
particularly of capital goods, should expand in proportion to the projected
increase in investment. Export prices have been good recently, but are now
well below the levels of mid-1974. In fiscal year 1973/74 the current account
of the balance of payments was in deficit again, partly due to large rises in
prices of essential imports, and partly due to delayed sales of some exports,
mainly cotton. The IMF has made a compensatory financing loan of $21.6 million
equivalent to help bridge the gap until commodity sales recover, but in view
of continued difficulty in the market for cotton, a balance of payments gap
for 1974/75 seems inevitable. On the other hand, the reopening of the Suez
Canal will work significantly in Sudan's power. The net foreign reserves of
the country have been depleted since 1968, and at December 1974 they stood at
a negative figure of US$138 million. The latest IMF stand-by covering the
period up to August 1975, provides 24 million SDRs.
15.       By mid-1974, the Sudan's total external debt was estimated to be
US$850 million equivalent, including undisbursed commitments of about US$450
million. The breakdown of the total debt outstanding by source shows that
the Bank Group, bilateral sources and private banks are the three principal
creditors with shares of 23, 41 and 34 percent respectively. Debt service
payments on long-term amounted in 1973 to 11 percent (IBRD/IDA 3 percent)
of the value of exports of goods and non-factor services. While the Sudan
has a good record in meeting its repayment obligations, such obligations over
the next few years are likely to absorb an increasing proportion of its foreign
exchange earnings. A disturbing feature of Sudan's external debt position
has been the rising proportion of medium-term debt contracted on commercial
terms. While a rapid increase in private and public capital inflows is
essential, it is equally important that the terms of public capital inflow
should be as concessional as possible. It is also important for Sudan to
give high priority to the productive investments and export promotion
policies which will enable it to substantially expand foreign exchange
earnings. The Sudanese are aware of the need to contain debt service within
the country's capacity to meet debt obligations. The Government informed the
IMF that it has adopted a policy of not increasing external debt of less than
five years' maturity and that longer-term debts will be limited to those that



-6 -
contribute to the development of the economy and are on favorable terms. Given
the current balance of payments problem, the government may have difficulty
adhering to this policy, but in view of this policy, and the emphasis being
given to the development of Sudan's considerable productive potential, parti-
cularly in the agricultural sector, continued support from IDA and other
sources of concessionary funds is warranted. The major infrastructure invest-
ments required for the development of a country as large as Sudan also dictate
the need for a continued flow; of concessionary funds.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TIIE SUDAN
16.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $282.5
million and has been the counltry's largest single source of foreign aid. A
major portion of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and railway
projects; in addition we have also helped finance two power projects, two
education projects, a highways project, and three agriculture projects. The
Bank/IDA share of debt service is 22 percent (1973). Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April
30, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Progress on Bank Group operations in the Sudan varies.   Difficulties
in obtaining materials, high bids which often require re-tendering and weak-
nesses in management continue to slow down implementation. Three projects in
particular have encountered problems in implementation--the First Education
Project, which was very slow in starting off, but is now proceeding satisfac-
torily; the Third Railways Project, where progress towards improved operational
efficiency is slow; and the Rahad Irrigation, the subject of this report,
which has faced management problems and serious cost overruns. The placing
of supervision responsibility in our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa for
some projects is helping to provide effective and timely technical assistance
at critical stages of project implementation.
18.       No loans or credits were made to the Sudan between September 1968
and June 1972, largely because of the Government's failure to take measures
necessary to overcome its economic difficulties. However, over the past
three years the situation has improved. The Government has resolved the
conflict in the South and an expansion in the level of expenditure on devel-
opment projects is under way, benefitting the whole country, including the
backward Southern Region. The financial measures taken under the continuing
stand-by arrangements with the IMF are further evidence of the Government's
search for solutions to the Sudan's pressing economic problems. While over-
all performance is still weak in several respects, these steps provide justifi-
cation for more active Bank Group assistance to the Sudan.
19.       As the Sudan has considerable agricultural potential waiting to
be tapped, the Bank Group will continue to emphasize assistance to the agri-
cultural sector. Within agriculture, we are financing three projects, Rahad



irrigation, the subject of this report, a Mechanized Farming Project and an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project in the South. In addition, we are assist-
ing the Government in preparing projects in livestock, mechanized farming and
other fields of agriculture. A second education project, emphasizing train-
ing in the rural areas, has recently been approved. It will help to give a
more vocational content to education curricula. Lack of transport facilities
continue to hamper movement of goods within the country and to the outside
world. The Third Railway Project is intended to improve rail transport and
to help design further necessary improvements in related transport facili-
ties. In addition, a Second Highway Project is under preparation, and in-
cluded in the agricultural rehabilitation program is about 350 miles of
agricultural feeder roads in the Southern Region. With the first credit to
the Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS), the Bank Group is helping to expand pri-
vate investment in the growing industrial sector.  Negotiation for a second
credit for IBS have recently been substantially completed. The first power
project, which developed some of the hydro-electric potential of the Roseires
Dam was completed in 1972. A credit for the second power project, which will
develop these resources further and assist expansion of the electricity sys-
tem in several ways, has recently been approved.
20.       The Bank Group is actively seeking cooperation from bilateral sources
to supplement scarce IDA resources. The financial arrangements for the Rahad
Irrigation project are an example. In 1973 the Consultative Group for Sudan,
which had last met in 1964, was reconvened. Most of the original member
countries as well as some new countries participated in this meeting and ex-
pressed interest in helping the Sudan. This seems likely to lead to increased
external aasistance. At an appropriate time, a further meeting of the Consult-
ative Group will be held.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Current Significance of Agriculture
21.       The importance of agriculture to the Sudanese economy is demon-
strated by nearly all significant indicators. The sector contributes about
40% of gross domestic product; over 95% of export receipts; about 75% of
employment; about 90% of the raw materials for local industries; about 5%
of government revenues from export duties alone. The crucial nature of the
sector to Sudan's development and the perceived potential of the sector has
called for careful and continuing analysis. The last Bank analysis of the
sector was contained in Volume III of the Economic Report on the Sudan, dated
June 9, 1972 (AE-27). Since then analysis of the sector has continued in the
Government's own agencies; in the Country Perspective Study carried out by FAO
in 1973, which explored alternative agricultural development strategies up to
1985 or 1990; in the study of the investment requirements of the sector currently
under way by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development; and in the recent



-8-
ILO Comprehensive Employment Mission, whose report is under preparation, and
to which the Bank is making a significant contribution.
The Resource Base
22.       Of the total area of the Sudan (about 625 million feddans) about
200 million feddans are suitable for crop and pastoral farming. At present
about half of this area is used, largely in an unsystematic fashion as range
lands. Approximately 16 million feddans are cultivated and of this area about
4 million acres irrigated. Approximately 60 million feddans receive an average
annual rainfall between 400 and 800 mm and most of it is suitable for rain-fed
farming. The use of Nile waters is governed by the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement,
between Sudan and Egypt, under which Sudan is entitled to use 18.5 milliard m3
measured at Aswan (about 20.5 milliard m3 measured at Sennar). Current con-
sumption exceeds half of Sudan's entitlement. The Rahad project when fully
developed will use about 1.6 milliard m3 of water. The size and location
of the country extending from the dry tropical zone into the equatorial zone
means that a great variety of agricultural produce can be grown in the coun-
try, from the grains, cotton and oil seeds of the dry tropical regions to tea,
coffee, rice and other equatorial produce in the south. Large areas of the
savanna belt are suitable for rearing cattle and sheep. This very large agri-
cultural potential has been the focus of considerable attention in a period
of concern about world-wide food production.
Current Pattern of Production
23.       There are three main types of agriculture in the Sudan.   Irrigated
agriculture is limited mainly to the area lying between the White and Blue
Niles upstream of their confluence, and to some smaller areas irrigated by
the Atbara and other rivers. The irrigated areas produce nearly all of the
long staple and medium staple cotton grown in Sudan, and also produce ground-
nuts, sugarcane, wheat and other grains, fruit and vegetables. The Bank was
involved in some of the major expansions in irrigated agriculture in the
1960s and in the building of the Roseires dam which is providing water for
further expansion.
24.       Rain-fed agriculture has been developed mainly in the region lying
east of the Blue Nile, near Gedaref, and in Southern Kordofan. Much of this
agriculture is mechanized due to the nature of the soils and the very large
areas involved. Production here has consisted of sorghum, short staple cotton
and sesame. The area under cotton has not increased much in the last five
years and is currently about 1.2 million feddans. The area under sorghum
is about 4 million feddans. The most rapid expansion has been in the pro-
duction of wheat, sesame and groundnuts, and in all three cases the area
cultivated has approximately doubled in the last five years. Agriculture
in the center and west of the country and in the whole of the southern
region is largely of the traditional variety, very little surplus being
produced. Livestock production, too, is still largely of the traditional



-9-
kind. Marketing and transportation difficulties limit the return to the
livestock producer. There are large disparities between the earnings of
those engaged in traditional agriculture and livestock production and the
earnings of the owners and tenants of mechanized and irrigated farms. This
in turn means that there are large regional differences in income levels.
25.       As mentioned above, Sudan's exports are almost entirely of agri-
cultural produce and livestock. Cotton accounts for about 60% of total
exports, oil seeds 17%, oil cake 6%, livestock products 7% and gum arabic
about 10%. However, imports of agricultural produce are also significant,
amounting to about 18% of total imports by 1970, rising to more than 25%
by 1972. During the recent period of very high prices of sugar and wheat,
imports of these products have imposed a severe strain on Sudan's balance
of payments and domestic finances. In the light of the potential for fur-
ther agricultural production and of the problems caused by imports of agri-
cultural produce, Sudan is giving high priority to the expansion of agri-
cultural exports and the achievement of self-sufficiency in presently
imported agricultural commodities.
Organization
26.       Modern agriculture in the Sudan is carried out largely under the
authority of state corporations--the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation,
the Agrarian Reform Corporation in the field of irrigated agriculture and
the Mechanized Farming Corporation in the field of dryland farming. The
Cotton Public Corporation and the Gum Arabic Corporation provide particular
services to the cotton and gum arabic producers, and the Agricultural Bank
of Sudan provides credit to a relatively small number of farmers. The
irrigation corporations have a very close control over the agriculture
carried out in the areas under their supervision, prescribing the rotation
system, the crops to be grown and the planting times; providing credit and
specialized services such as crop-spraying and having, in some cases, mono-
poly purchasing power over the crops produced. Another group of corpora-
tions, operating under state licenses, controls both domestic and foreign
trade in many agricultural and livestock products, applying state pricing
policies. Traditional agriculture and livestock rearing operate more inde-
pendently but nevertheless they are much influenced by the policies, includ-
ing prices, set by the state-owned or licensed corporations.
27.       Ministerial supervision is exercised through two ministries, the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric
Power. The Ministry of Agriculture provides a large range of services to the
agriculture and livestock sectors and is fairly well staffed. The Ministry
of Irrigation and Hydroelectic Power is, on the whole, well staffed and com-
petent, with much experience in water management and the operation of large
scale irrigation schemes.



- 10 -
Sectoral Problems
28.       The great potential for agricultural expansion poses problems,
both for existing production and in regard to the new investment schemes.
There are questions of priority for future investment. For example, devel-
opment of new irrigated areas means a high level of investment, a high out-
put per feddan and considerable employment generation. Improvement of ex-
isting irrigated agriculture requires less investment and can bring a high
rate of return, but will generate less employment. Mechanized dryland
farming also requires less capital investment than irrigated agriculture,
and provides less employment. All three types of agricultural development
can yield large surpluses for export, to earn foreign exchange. By contrast,
development of traditional agriculture and livestock rearing would yield much
less for export, but can do much for the incomes of the poorest people in
Sudan. Again, given the vast areas of land remaining to be brought into
productive use, and the nature of some of the soils, a high level of mech-
anization may well be justified. But a way has to be found to ensure that
the poorer people benefit from the resulting higher productivity. The degree
of mechanization will also partly depend on the availability of seasonal
labor, on which the modern agriculture currently depends heavily. Work
carried out during the recent ILO mission has confirmed the high mobility of
current labor surpluses, if adequate wages are paid, but upgrading of agri-
culture in the poorer parts of the country could have the effect of reducing
the willingness of labor to make the long journey to obtain seasonal employ-
ment. All these considerat:lons must be borne in mind, and careful thought
given to the trade-offs involved. A further problem concerns the incentive
system in the sector. The current incentive system does not favor agricul-
tural exports, while the institutional relationship between the irrigation
corporations and tenants is not always conducive to higher yields, nor does it
encourage responsiveness to market demand.
29.       Large complementary investment is also required in transportation,
storage, credit, marketing facilities and research to meet the needs of the
planned expansion in agricuLtural production. Currently, agricultural
research is concentrated principally on irrigated agriculture, especially
cotton production. Investment in research concerned with rain-fed agriculture
urgently requires expansion. Output of high-level agriculture staff from
existing and planned agriculture training establishments is expected to be
adequate, but a large training requirement remains at the lower levels.
Investment Objectives
30.       Current public investment is mainly directed at the expansion of
wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity for imports and to gen-
erate exports, at the expansion of middle staple cotton and groundnuts in
the Rahad project, and at expansion of mechanized dryland farming to produce
sorghum and sesame. Private investment in mechanized farming and in the
production of groundnuts in the traditional sector is also expected to ex-
pand rapidly. In the South, progress is going to depend heavily on the IDA
financed rehabilitation project. The current focus of livestock develop-
ment is on the creation of a disease-free zone and disease control generally.



31.       Of particular importance are the investment proposals being devel-
oped by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development following a mission
to Sudan in 1974-75. The proposals under discussion include a broad spectrum
of possible agricultural projects and the infrastructure required for their
development. They are broadly in line with the priorities suggested in the
FAO Perspective Study and with Lhe priorities perceived by the ILO Mission
for the agricultural sector. The Association's future work in the sector
will, of course, be coordinated with that of other agencies, such as the
Arab Fund, and will seek to support the Government's investment proposals
in high priority areas. Currently the Association is financing studies
required for future irrigation investment using water from the Roseires dam.
It is also financing studies required for a one million feddan expansion of
mechanized dry-land farming and is about to appraise a first livestock proj-
ect. We will be discussing with the Government over the coming months other
fields in which the Association could make a useful contribution.
32.       Also important for future agricultural expansion in the Sudan is
the interest being shown by private companies, both domestic and foreign.
Foreign involvement can contribute technical and managerial expertise as
well as capital, but the Government urgently needs to develop a framework
within which such involvement can take place to the mutual advantage of
Sudan and the foreign investors.
33.       As mentioned earlier, the significance of the expansion proposals
for the Sudanese economy goes far beyond the mere growth in agricultural
production. Such expansion could lead to major increases in incomes, to
foreign exchange earnings and savings, additional revenue to the Government,
and would also provide most of the raw materials for the industrial expan-
sion envisaged. Together with the infrastructure required, these agricul-
tural expansion plans will absorb the bulk of the funds available to the
Government for investment, and place heavy demands on its administrative
capacity.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project DYescription
34.       A complete description of the project was given in my Report
(P1186-SU) of February 16, 1973, recommending Credit No. 364-SU. A more
detailed description was included in the appraisal report No. PA-1396 of
February 16, 1973. An updated credit and project summary is attached as
Annex III. The project has experienced delays and problems, which were first
notified to the Board in the President's Report dated May 14, 1974 on the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Report No. P-1401-SU) and serious cost
increases have occurred. Nevertheless, the project remains fully justified
economically, and therefore additional financing from IDA and other sources
of funds is merited.



- 12 -
35.       The project is the development of irrigated agriculture on an
area of about 300,000 feddans 1/ on the east bank of the Rahad River using
water pumped from the Blue Nile. Its major components include the construc-
tion of irrigation and drainage works comprising a 105 m3/sec electrically-
powered pumping station at Meina on the Blue Nile, a supply canal 84 kni long
carrying water from Meina to an outfall on the Rahad River, structures along
the supply canal, a barrage and head regulator on the Rahad River and irri-
gation distribution and drainage systems for the irrigated area; construc-
tion of headquarters, offices and houses for project management and opera-
tional staff with the necessary utilities and roads; construction of elec-
trical sub-stations and transmission lines; procurement of construction
equipment, agricultural equipment and vehicles; construction of a project
road network; construction of storage and processing facilities for cotton
and groundnuts; agricultural development and settlement of the area over
three years; development of seed production and research farms; provision
of public health facilities; and preparation of a feasibility study by con-
sultants for a second phase of irrigation development, including studies of
the optimum use of remaining Roseires Reservoir storage waters for power
generation and irrigation.
Project Administration
36.       As originally conceived, the project was to be carried out mainly
by the Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) and a newly created corporation (the
Rahad Corporation) with other government agencies having responsibility for
minor elements and the Ministry of Planning having overall responsibility
for implementation. The MOI would be responsible for construction, opera-
tion and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system and the Rahad
Corporation would undertake the agricultural development of the project.
While the MOI and the Rahad Corporation individually have been executing
their responsibilities in a broadly satisfactory manner, the experience
of the last two years has shown that a stronger coordinating body is
required during the construction phase. In 1973 the Government estab-
lished a Rahad Coordinating and Follow-up Committee under the aegis of
the National Planning Commission, but it was not effective. The Govern-
ment has now reconstituted the Committee under the chairmanship of a full-
time Project Executive Director, with the rank of Deputy Minister and re-
sponsible to the Minister of Irrigation. The members of the Committee,
representing major ministries and agencies involved., are at the under-
secretary level. The Committee has a general supervisory and managerial
role, including responsibility for timely execution of the project, for
financial control and for liaison with the financing agencies. The Project
Executive Director will have specialized full-time staff at his disposal.
The project consultants, wh:ile continuing tc provide services to the dif-
ferent agencies, will also provide advisory, reporting and coordination
services to the Project Executive Director. These new arrangements are
satisfactory.
1/   1 feddan (fed)   0.420 hectares (1.038 acres).



- 13 -
Implementation of the Project
37.       The schedule for the implementation of the project was tightly
programmed and demanded close coordination of all aspects of the work. It
was expected to take six years to complete, interrupted annually by a four-
month rainy season when movement in the area becomes very difficult. Never-
theless, it was considered to be a realistic schedule in the light of expe-
rience on the extensions of the Managil and Gezira schemes constructed by
the Ministry of Irrigation during the late 1960s. The excavation work on
the main and supply canals and the irrigation distribution and drainage
systems is being carried out by force account, using the Ministry of
Irrigation's labor force and equipment (now reconstituted as a semi-
autonomous corporation -- the Public Corporation for Irrigation Works;
PCIW), supplemented by additional equipment provided under the project.
In retrospect the original schedule was too optimistic; the work has fallen
behind schedule due to a combination of factors -- slow procurement and
delivery of equipment, slow mobilization, equipment deficiencies, and
shortages of fuel, cement, steel and spare parts. Excavation of 1.5 mil-
lion m3 was achieved in the 1973/74 season, 40% of the planned amount.
Work is now going ahead more rapidly to a revised schedule as new equipment
arrives and is put into service. Construction of the supply canal structures,
which it was intended should be carried out by contractors, is discussed in
more detail at paragraph 40 below. Briefly, the results of the bidding for
this work were disappointing and have caused delay in starting work on the
structures.
38.       Procurement for the project is at various stages.    Contracts have
been awarded for the supply canal structures, for-the supply of pumps,
water control equipment, building materials, some of the agricultural
plant, vehicles and construction and earth-moving equipment -- costing in
total about US$47 million. The electrification program is going ahead
satisfactorily and is in phase with the revised irrigation schedule. A
road system has been selected after study of transportation alternatives,
in preference to the light railway originally provided for.    Engineering
studies for the roads are about to commence. Contracts have yet to be awarded
for the following items: buildings, the ginneries complex, the roads, agri-
cultural equipment, workshop equipment and a variety of supplies and equipment
required at the later stages of implementation. Tenders have been received
for the ginneries and are under evaluation. Planning for the public health
measures is well advanced. A proposal will shortly be invited from consultants
for the feasibility studies for Stage II development. The maps of the end of
this report illustrate the original proposal for a phase II project, but the
studies will examine all alternatives for the next stage development.



- 14 -
Construction of Supply Canal Structures
39.       One of the most difficult problems in project implementation has
concerned the construction of three important structures on the supply
canal -- the pumping station, a syphon under the Dinder River and a barrage
and main canal head regulator on the Rahad River. The work was first adver-
tized in September 1973, as a result of which 18 firms were prequalified.
Following the award of a separate contract for the pumps, the design of the
pump house required modification. Simultaneously, the Ministry of Irrigation
(MOI) decided to relocate the Rahad barrage, requiring major amendments to
the Tender documents. Tender documents were therefore issued several months
late, in July 1974. Only one bid was received and that was for the barrage
and head regulator only. The bid price was more than double the estimated
price, and was not fully responsive. In advising IDA of the response to
the call for tenders, the Government asked IDA to consider the possibility
of construction by the Public Corporation for Irrigation Works (PCIW). IDA
offered to consider this alternative, but suggested a meeting with contractors
to find out why they had not bid. A meeting was held in early November 1974,
attended by the borrower, the consultants, the financing agencies, and
representatives of seven contracting firms. At the end of the meeting, three
alternative courses of action had emerged: general retendering, limited
retendering among several pre-qualified firms already working in Sudan, and
a negotiated contract with E'CIW. One of the main criteria for a solution
to the problem was to be speed, since completion of these structures is
critical to the whole project schedule. Both forms of retendering would
have required revision of contract documents and would have led to a delay
of up to one full working season, involving a substantial reduction in benefits
and additions to costs. Addlitionally, they might not have elicited a respon-
sive tender. An IDA supervision mission reviewed the capacity of PCIW and
identified fields in which PCIW's experience was limited.
40.       At a meeting held in Kuwait after the supervision mission, the
Government and the financing agencies reviewed the mission's report and
agreed that if the gaps in its experience could be filled by experienced
technical personnel, PCIW could be considered for the award of negotiated
contracts for the pumping station and Dinder syphon. PCIW thereupon under-
took to enter into a contract acceptable to the lending agencies with one
of the prequalified foreign contractors (Torno of Italy was selected) for
the supply of the necessary technical assistance, covering fields specified
and agreed by Government and the lending agencies, including general tech-
nical advisory services as well as specialized assistance for dewatering,
equipment maintenance, concrete work and procurement. Having received this
assurance, the lending agencies agreed that MOI should negotiate the contracts
with PCIW. This arrangement: appears the best solution in the situation and
should allow adherence to the present construction schedule with reasonable
assurance of adequate workmanship. The lending agencies also agreed that
MOI would negotiate a contract with the sole bidder (a Sudanese firm) for the
construction of the Rahad barrage and head regulator. M0I undertook, and has
so instructed the consultants, that the latter would exercise full responsi-
bility for the supervision of all three contracts.



- 15 -
Agriculture and Irrigation System
41.       The project originally provided for production of cotton and ground-
nuts under basin irrigation, with gradual adoption of "long-furrow" irriga-
tion. (Basin irrigation involves flooding a flat basin; long-furrow irriga-
tion involves water applied in furrows on slightly inclined land.) Long
furrow irrigation increases crt. yields, is less costly in water than the
traditional basin irrigation system and facilitates mechanization. At the
time of appraisal, trial work on the long-furrow system had been initiated
at the Tambul Pilot Farm but it had not yet been demonstrated that the sys-
tem increased yields. Studies of this technique have continued at the Tambul
Farm from 1972 until the present time, together with trials on the time of
planting, pre-watering prior to planting, post-watering (to germinate ground-
nut seed left in the soil after harvesting) mechanical harvesting of groundnut
hay, and other techniques. As a result of the findings of the Tambul trials,
the Rahad Corporation has prepared final cropping and agricultural operations
programs, work schedules, etc. which are based on the adoption of long furrow
irrigation methods.
42.       The results of these trials now justify accelerated introduction
of the long-furrow system, utilizing the techniques developed at Tambul.
The Government and their consultants have commenced detailed survey and
design work and the Government has agreed to consult with the lending
agencies on the extent of the additional land levelling required when
the surveys are completed. The necessary changes in the agricultural
and irrigation techniques would add to the cost of the project and neces-
sitate a major training program to teach project staff and the farmers the
new techniques. However, the yields associated with these techniques are
expected to be markedly higher than those obtained under basin irrigation,
and should significantly improve the project benefits (see paragraph 49 and
Annexes 4 and 5 below for more detail).
Project Costs
43.       The project has been subject to substantial cost increases since
the estimate made at appraisal in February 1972 (updated at negotiations in
January 1973). The following table compares the current estimated project
cost with the appraisal estimate:



- 16 -
AppraisaL Estimate      Current E.stimate
Foreign  Local Total    Foreign  Local Total Increase Increase
-----(US$ million)        --(US$ million)---
Base cost          54.2     26.9   81.1   118.2     56.7 174.9    93.8     115
Contingencies:
Physical           4.5     2.2    6.7    12.0       6.5  18.5
Price             5.3      3.0    8.3    29.7      16.2  45.9
Total         64.0     32.1   96.1   159.9     79.4 239.3   143.2     149
Taxes & Duties                     28.9                    81.4
Grand Total                  125.0                  320.7   195.7     156
These cost estimates are presented in more detail in Annex 5, together with
notes explaining the basis of the present cost estimate.
44.       The new Project implementation schedule extends the construction
period by a year to 1978/79 (Year 7). This longer period, compounded by
higher escalation rates due to world-wide inflation, contributes substantially
to the overall cost increase. It is difficult to isolate the exact reasons
for the increase in cost for each individual component, especially in a
period of world-wide inflation and rapidly-changing prices. However, the
overall increase in costs net of taxes and duties may be broadly classified
as follows:
US$ million      7
Improvements in the project (see Annex 5)                    16.5       12
Price increases since appraisal                              34.0       24
Increase in cost of irrigation works, buildings,
electrification etc. due to changes in design and
quantities, or under-estimate at appraisal                43.5        30
Increase in Project base cost estimates           94.0
Increase in contingencies                                    49.2       34
Total increase in Project cost, net of taxes and duties     143.2      100



- 17 -
Revised Financing Plan
45.       Under the original plan, the Association, the Kuwait Fund and USAID
were financing the estimated foreign exchange cost of US$64 million and the
Government the local cost of the project. At the Kuwait meeting and subse-
quently, agreement in principle was reached to financing the revised cost
of the project as follows:
Original         New                  % of
Source of Financing                 Commitment     Commitment    Total     Total
-------------- US$ million -------
Foreign Exchange
IDA                                42            20          62       26%
Kuwait Fund                        11            39          50       21%
USAID                              11              -         11        4%
Arab Fund                           -              9          9        4%
Saudi Fund for Development          -            28          28       12%
Sub-total                          64            96         160       67%
Local Currency
Government                         35 /1          45         80       33%
Total                         99 /1        141         240      100%
A    Includes the value of existing equipment to be provided by the
Government.
The status of authorization of this financing plan is as follows: the Kuwait
Fund is expected to consider its proposed increased credit this month; the
Arab Fund has an appraisal mission in the field to review the road component,
and expects to submit a recommendation to its Board of Directors in September
or October; the Saudi Fund has approved its loan of $28 million for the
project. It is intended that effectiveness of the proposed additional $20
million contribution by IDA be conditional on signature of the loans proposed
by the other financing agencies. The original Kuwait loan was at 2-1/2% rate
of interest for a term of 40 years, with a five year grace period. The addi-
tional financing for the project is expected to be on varied but concessional
terms.
46.       Under the original financing plan, the IDA and Kuwait Fund lending
was for joint financing and that of USAID was for parallel financing. Under
the new plan, the IDA and Saudi Fund lending and part (US$33.4) of the Kuwait
Fund loan would be for joint financing; the USAID and Arab Fund Loans and the
remainder of the Kuwait Fund loan (US$16.6) would be for parallel financing.
The following table summarizes Annex 6 and illustrates the procurement and
financing arrangements.



- 18 -
Source of        Form of     Form of                        Amount
Financing       Financing  Procurement              Foreign   Local  Total
-   US$ million-----
IDA          )
Kuwait Fund ) Joint        ICB                         73.3   18.0    91.3
Saudi Fund )
Negotiated
Contract                   14.2    10.0    24.2
Force
Account                    10.8     5.8    16.6
Mtiscellaneous /a          25.0     1.9    26.9
Sub-Total             123.3   35.7    159.0
Kuwait Fund     Parallel   ICB                         16.6    3.3    19.9
Arab Fund       Parallel   ICB                          9.0    7.0    16.0
USAID           Parallel   Tied                        11.0    1.9    12.9
Government                 Local CB and
Force Account               -      31.6    31.6
Total                 159.9   79.5    239.4
/a   Foreign exchange costs of items procured under government procedures.
Recovery of Project Costs
47.       The Rahad Corporation Act (1972) requires that tenants be charged a
flat rate "land and water charge" calculated in relation to the recovery of
the Corporation's annual expenses, the depreciation of its assets and an
adequate return to the Government on its investment in the project. The
credit agreement for Credit No. 364-SU specified an annual charge, initially
of at least Lsd 4.00 per feddan, rising to at least Lsd 7.00 per feddan by
the seventh crop after settlement. This would have been sufficient to
recover, over the lifetime of the project, current costs and investment cost
with 3% interest, while leaving the farmer a net cash income about equivalent
to the national average family income. There was provision for a review of
this charge by the Government the Rahad Corporation and IDA at maximum intervals
of five years. The Government has now agreed that in view of the major cost
increase which has occurred, the first review will take place not later than
June 1977, when the first irrigation water is expected to be available.
Justification and Benefits
48.       The principal benefit of the project will be the production of
cotton and groundnuts from irrigated farmland which was formerly unproduc-
tive semi-arid land. It will increase the incomes of the 13,700 families
in the area very substantially and provide seasonal employment for about
90,000 laborers. There will be a major increase in net foreign exchange
earnings and in revenue to the Central Government from export taxes. At
the time of consideration of the original project, the economic return



- 19 -
was calculated on the basis that basin irrigation would be employed. The
following table compares the estimated annual production of the project
using basin irrigation with that under an expanding level of long-furrow
irrigation, at full agricultural development (one year later for the long-
furrow irrigation):
Total
Gross         Estimated
Cotton      Shelled        Value        Foreign Exchange
Lint        Groundnuts     E Sd.        Earnings
(kantars)    (tons)        Million /1    (US$ Million) /2
Basin Irrigation          840,000      83,700         28.5             65
Long-Furrow Irrigation 1,120,000      111,600         38.1             90
Increase %                    33%         33%          33%             38%
/1   Excludes the value of vegetables produced.
/2   Assumes all of the production will be exported except for vegetables
and groundnut hay.
49.       These values, plus the farm gate value of domestically consumed crops,
are the direct economic benefits of the project, and would accrue mainly to the
13,700 tenant families and their labour. The gross value of production is
affected by the price assumptions used as well as the yields. Since the appraisal
of the project, forecast prices for cotton have risen by 79% and forecast prices
for groundnuts by 48%. The price forecasts used are those provided by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division. Together with the increased yields,
these higher price assumptions considerably increase the project benefits.
Project economic costs include all costs associated with irrigation, crop pro-
duction, processing and transportation to Port Sudan. The internal economic
rate of return of the revised project would be over 16%, an increase of about
3% over that of the original project. Neither hired labor nor foreign exchange
was shadow priced in the 1973 analysis and they have similarly not been shadow
priced in the current analysis, in order to maintain a common basis for compari-
son of the rates of return.
50.       The original project benefits also included "indirect benefits ...
increasing the level of agricultural technology in the Sudan and training of
Sudanese staff, who could later employ the improved methods in future develop-
ment schemes". These arguments apply with added force now that the long-furrow
system and the other techniques evolved at Tambul have been shown to be more
productive. All recent analyses of the agriculture sector in the Sudan have
given high priority to the intensification of existing irrigated agriculture.
There is a very large potential for increasing yields on existing irrigation
schemes (covering over 2 million feddans) by introducing improved methods.
The large-scale adoption of these improved techniques at Rahad would be a
most persuasive way of showing what can be achieved.



- 20 -
51.       The risks associated with the project are mainly those of delayed
completion and decline in commodity prices. However, these have been tested
and the project has been found to be relatively insensitive to them (see
Annex 7).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Amending Credit Agreement between the Association and
the Democratic Republic of Sudan, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article V Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a
resolution approving the proposed increased credit, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       A draft Loan Amending Agreement between the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development and the Democratic Republic of the Sudan is being negotiated.
A draft Loan Agreement between the Saudi Fund for Development and the Democratic
Republic of Sudan has beern agreed. A draft loan agreement between the Arab
Fund for Sccial and Economic Development and the Democratic Republic of Sudan
is being negotiated. The signing of these documents would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed increase in the IDA credit.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed increased credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMNIENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
increased credit.
Robert S. M4cNamara
President
Attachments                                   by B. Chadenet
Washington, D.C.
June 11, 1975



Page 1sof 3 pages
ONUNUTY DATA - SUDAN
AMN                                                 POPULATION                                    roNsin
2.5 mile. k.                                           16.57 .i.11ion (mid-1972)
18.2     Pee kslof stable len
SOCIAL DIDICATORS
Sudan                     t, a                   aroc.o *
TM_       ____F                1970        1970         1970
ON? PER CAPITA U34 (ATIAS UASES) /1.                                             120 Is           170 /a     260 Ia       270Ia
DEFGR)GAPHIIC
r.&r1thrate (Wo thousad)                                   52 /b         il9              18 Ic       35 /d        50 I.
Crude death rats (per thousand)                                  1 ', /b        lb               18 7-      13 /-d       1  /c I
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                 vi~ 7;                          55 -      1 9' -       I5oT7
Lif.exspectancy at birth Cymars)                                 -.                               9 10      50 /c        50 77
Grosas reproduction ratse                                                      3.).             3.6        3.1)         3.6 Li
Population growth ratseL                                        2.6            2.8 /o3.2 /c                2.5 /n         .
PoPulatiss growth rate - arb.n                                    6/f            iTh              77215-h     7i           5  d
Age strutur    (peneat)
0-16                                                         62/            45               lb                       4 67 
15-66                                                        SiZ            52               68          52           50g
65 and over                                                    2      ~       3                14         4L
ige  epaodency ratio   6                                         .            0.9              iR          19            .0/
EcMic droende-y rAI.s/                                        1.6           1.2              l           122.             7
Ulbrha  PoPulation as perccant or total                           8 /r          13 If            10 LU-     62 /I        3tb8
Fartly Placcing: No. of aoceptors cumulative (thou.)              . .                                                     67
No. of users (% of married   cesn)            ...                              .          ..3
Total labor force (thousads)                                 1,,8D0 /n       5,100/c          5,100 /I 1r8.300 I.c    6,000 /d
Percentage employed is agriculture                             86 7.          80               30 V        5 3o        50 7d
Percentage o.meployad                                          ....                                         2           3d
IRGOHE DISTRIBUTION
Psr7;t-ofat=ooa     income received by highest 5%               21 /t.o        .
Percent of catia..al to-um  rece.ived by high-st 20%             50 5(.
PaecnIt of national inco.s received by loaest 20%                 5/tO          .
Percoent of natloa.1 incm   recoisd by lowes -t 40%              1   t           ..
DISTRIBUTIONOF LAND01 OdAERSHTP
% owned by top 10% of owners                                      ..
8 owned by amealest 10% of O-.anr...
HEALTH AND NUTfRITION
Popula8tion pePor physaicia                                  30,000 /k      15,940            7,830 /.   1 7910 /a   13,272
Population per nuring pers on                                     .          1 ,950           1 .60  7;    61.0 7;    2,760 /io
Population per hospital bad                                   1,011 /6       1,0Oc0 Ic          270        b660         65
Per caPita calorie vopply as % of reqoiresents /                 81 /ab         91              icll        91.          99
Per capita proteIn supply, total (grams Per dayj~/6              56 In-k        63               71         66           66
Of which, -ciml and pole1.                                                    21 /c            29          16 luau.    11, In
loath rate 1-6 years /7.
A5oQd /8p-       mr   scoo   -nrollssct ratio                     17             25A/             67          70          95
Adjusted 7% secodary sciou    esrollment ratio                    5              yT7!             9 /ob      33           12
Years of schoolicg procidad, first and second level              12             12               13 -        12           12
VOcatioa ..  nroll01eect as % of sec. school enrollment           3              1IA              2          1,            3
Adult 1itaracy rate 5                                            .              19 7;n.          3Q/ac,ao,-a0Ida          26 /d,af,.a
HoilsI)
Ave rage No. of persn ..  Per cone (urban)                       .2.5 /n                         .                       2.1 /
Percent o f _op.e6 o.'cts without piped waer.                                   36 Ic ab at      .                        5d u     la
Access to electricity (as 5 ofttl      Iouation)                 a.2 
Parceot of Rural populatio ~~~n .onneted to electricity                 26 .
PM_-ci-per 1000 populati-c                                1             80 /c           1.          L 13 /a      '5 I
Pa.ssnger cars per l00 ppulation                                  1              2                r  1o1      6/          16 /d
Elactric power consumption (keb p.c..)8/6                                       18a7Hs                      53Ia          39I
Ne...print cocnu,,ptioc p.c. lag per pear                        0.1  k        0.1  a           0.57;       1.37         0.39
totes:  figures refer either to the intent periods or to              accoot of environmental temperature, body siights, and
tbe latest yearn .  Latest periods refer in principle to              diatrlbution by age and esa of national popalatione.
the yearn 19516-60 or 1966-70; the latest year   in proi-         /6  Protein standards (requiremence) for all ..o.nirias as rtab-
cpleol  to 1960 o-R 1970.                                             liebhd by LISDA Econ.omic Research Service provide far a nininm-
aI  The Per lapito GNP esticatoh    cisa  mokot prices for            aflowance of 60 grams, of total Protein per day, anl 20 grains of
y-cr  other than _!190, calculate.d by the cane converio-         animal and pulse protein, of hbich 10 grams shoald he anmal
troinliqur an tin 1972 World ia,tc Atlas.                         Protein.  These standards are somehat lowe     than thoee of 75
a2   -vr.g      ber of daughtera per -ca   of reproducive             gram   of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
L  go.. avrage for the norid, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
? 2orlctlco growtlh roles ore fnr the decodes coding in             Survey.
1960 and 1920.                                                /7  Sone  todies have suggested that crude death rates of children
A   Rntlo of poplatIon     nder 15 and 65 and over to popula-         ages I through 4 may be coed asafirst appronimatios Indexn of
tIn  of agen 15-66 for age dependency nti      and to labor      malnutrition.
force. of ages 15-64 for ec..onoic dependency ntis.           A   Perc-tage esralied of cureanpundisg popelation of school age
LI. PAO reference standards represent physiological in-               as deficed far sash country.
qur'emntsa far norzal activity and health, taking
/a  1972; Io   Estimate for 1955 based as results of 1955-56 sanpi. census of populotico; Ic       iNtestiaefr16-0             d  17
7;   i960-'7!  /f  Sixty-night towns; ZI    1962-69; A6   2,000 or mone Inhabitants; /i Oover     ue    o   or,     l   n   a7la,Port
Suld, Is-iTlia and 100e2; froctier gaverorate and capitals of other goveroor'tas as well au district capitals; /i 117
.ra,et,;/   1962; 4i1969     '- Ratio of population ander 15 and 65 and over to total 1ubor fo,ce; /I 1956; In l9f66;
/p  Ratio cf popalutioc -under     an d    an-d over in labor force - age 12-64 years; /q    Estimate; /r   Labor forc  icag
brachet 15-59; /s   Figure relate to person    12-64 years of age; It 1963; Ic    Idnuasholds (sdurmao ur-ban); lv Gnveorc- ent
nosptc.al establishe,ets only; Iw Number un the register, noat allworkieg in the coontry; /0 1-1ludiop sidwive3 and
ansistunt   urses; ly  Includes rural h-pitals; /a 1964-d66       Ian 1968-69; /ab Including teacoher truliiog ut t.he third
lovel; lao   Definiticn cut available; /ad 1968, Jan      15 years flH over; /af Read and writn; lag Over 5 years eli;
Iah Urban .57;; /ai beile or outside; Z.f'Terceont Wrhoiseholds; /ab 1961;-7ah Including government v-hicirs              le   1973.
a Morocco has b.o. selected as the objection coustry because of certaic nimilarities (sine of p.polati-,, lace vi
population preos-., importance of agricult,re, -vemb         of Axab wrold, and access to OPEC ansistanco) and nas reachod
sa s.ge of develop-et to which the Sudan might aspire in the macion tens.
8.3  April 29, 1975



Anrnex I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONIAL PRODUCT IN FY 1972                                  ANNIUAL RATE OF CR01O11 (.r, :crstsnt  nrices)
US$ Mln.                               1960 -65'         1965 -7}          197'
ON?P t Market Prices          21L.h       100.0
Gross DomTiestic Investment    2iE.6       10.2
Gross National Saving          179.5        3.U
Current Account Balance        -39.1       -1. 8
Exports of Goods, NFS          316.3       o6.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          385.2       18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY 1972
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                        Mln.     %_                    US $         %
Agriculture                    693.3     03.2                 ..
Industry                       273.L     I.'. C
Services                       3I<I                          .*
Unallocated
Tot 0/Avor:<ge         i.916 6   100.0                  .      100.0                            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
( Ls. Mln          % of GDP                    nLs. jMln.)       % of GDPf D
197          197        196 -7              _ 19       N  1
Current Receipts                    ..           ..          ..                 177.1       21i.            23.3
Current Expenditure                                          ..                  180.9      21.5            22.L
Current Surplus                     ..           ..          . . 
Capital Expenditures 3/             ..            .          ..                   29.6      0.3             a.
External Assistance (net)           ..           ..          ..                    5.7       1.              1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              FY 1968      FY 1970     FY 1971     FY 1972    Ff 197          197
(Million ls. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   92.0        127.3       132.8       10.8       182.0        230.
Bank credit to Public Sector            62.0         96.?       110.h       146.2     177.3         199.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector           60.5         60.3        7:.1        70.5      92.8        136.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        6.0;:      2'.1        20.8         18.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         ..           ..
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      ..           ..         .            .
Bank credit to Public Sector             ..          3C.';      5.2         3    1    : .3         1
Bank credit to Private Sector            ..          -1.3      21.2         -3s.6     31.6        57.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rate trc,-cLvCj1_ -Lrnv The
covered; wuhich was unchanged throul,:hoizt at Ls a =- US$2.872
1/ At frctor cost                               .. not available
.not a-policable
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures fron Development Budget (incY'Oes some capital expenditures by other publ_c enlities)



rnnex
Page ' of 3
TRADE PAY1ENTS AND CAPITAL FLCWS
BALANCE OF PAYIIENT'                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS AVERAGE 1971-73)
1971     1972     1973                                           US $ lin       %
7Tillions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           35,.2    373.2    491.8
Imports of Goods, NFS             1      409.5    446.0
Resoia cc GOp (deficit  -)       -267             7.
Cotton                           217.6     58.3
Interest Payments (net)          -2.5    -16.7    -1L.6             Gum arabic                       23.1       6.2
Workers' Remittances                -      -        -               Grouldnuts                       26.3       7.
Other Factor Payments (net)     -10.7     -5.8     -7.8             Sesame                           30.6       P.2
Net Transfers                    -2.3      7.2      2.3             All other corrnoditi-            75.5      20.2
Falance on Ciirrent Ac o.nt      -42.0   -77       25.7               Total                         373.1     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        -1.1      0.3      0.8             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECE     Iil._L_2  1973
Net MLT Borrowir.g
DisbursemeLnts                 16.3     39.6     90.2
xr.or-tization                -30.9    -33.8    -40.3
Subtotal                            14. 5.8 Public Debt, -incl. ,--:!                     te(_              382.7
Capital Grants                    -        -        -               rion-Cuaranteed Pri:v ;  t - It
Other Capital (net)              i9.8      3.7      8.7             Totrl outctandinEg &E 'srse..
Other items n.e.i.               -6.8    -10.9    -61.7
rcrense in Reserves (+)         -.7      -30.9    +                DEBT 2ERVIO RATIO   er
,ross Reserves (end year)        29.0     36.1     72.4
Net Reserves   (end year)       -97.2   -128.3   -105.5
Public Debt, incl. ', Irantee6_            10.9
Fuel and Related Materials       19 0     1971     1972            Non-Guaranteed Priv    Debt
lmports                        26.1     25.8     25.4             Total outstandirng & 'i a,burs(.
of which: Petroleum          25.9     25.6     25.2
Exports                         1.0      2.6      2.6
of which: Petroleum           1 0      2.6      2.6             IBRD/IDA LENDING, Apr-  ) ) (MiLlion US 3)
RATE OF EXCHAJ4GE                                                                                    iF1l      1_
Through - 1974                                                    Outstanding & Disbu r-'d         79.1.     20.7
US $ l.OQ = Ls. 0.348                                             Undisbursed                       -       109.1
Ls. 1.00 = U-S $2.872                                             Outstanding incl. Unl-i burscd   7297
Since March 1972 Effective Rate of Exchange Ls. 1.00 = U.S. $2.50 for all Lransections e.t fop the proceeds from
cotton and gum exports which are converted at the official exchange rate.
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
January 1i4, 975
Eastern kfrica, Program I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of April 30,1975)
Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower              Purpose          Bank    IDA     Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                   127.2   12.4
Credit 122   1968    Sudan       Education I                         8.5         6.7
Credit 311   1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II              11.2         9.1
Credit 331   1972    Sudan        Highway                            7.0         6.4
Credit 364   1973    Sudan        Rahad Irrigation                  42.0        39.3
Credit 447   1973    Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan           4.0         2.0
Credit 457   1974    Sudan        Railways III                      24.0        23.9
Credit 476   1974    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabili-             10.7        10.7
tation Project
Credit 547   1975    Sudan        Education II                      10.0        10.0
127.2  129.8       108.1
Total -
Of which has been repaid                               47.8     .6
Total now outstanding                                      79.4  129.2
Amount sold                          5.8
Of which has been repaid         5.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                          79.4  129.2
Total Undisbursed                                           -    108.1       108.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30,1975)
Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                      Obligor             Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1964      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.     Textiles
and
1972      Total gross commitments                        1.87    0.37      2.21
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          1.63    0.07      1.70
Total commitments now held by IFC             0.24    0.27      0.51
Total Undisbursed                             0        0        0
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and nine credits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122 First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Although these problems were to a large extent beyond the control
of the Project Unit, the latter's capacity to deal with problems has improved,
and work is now proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements have picked up and
should now go more smoothly. Slight cost overruns will be met by the Govern-
ment. Extension of the Closing Date is likely. We will continue to monitor
the project closely.
Credit No. 311 Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish about
140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan - 1,038 acres) was completed in July
1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings. Encouraged by
this success, the area of the original project was extended by 75,000 feddans
and a second mechanized farming project covering a further 420,000 feddans
was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12, 1972. Implemen-
tation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clearing and area
under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other agencies
involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road construction
and water supplies has greatly improved. Progress on road improvements and
construction of a training centre are still behind schedule. Feasibility
studies for further expansion of mechanized farming have started. Disburse-
ments are picking up and should grow quite rapidly now.
Credit No. 331 Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corporation
in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and maintenance
program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials. Also included
are feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by detailed engineer-
ing of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport in
transport planning and training of DOR staff. The project is progressing
satisfactorily on the whole. ''though the consultants reports were delayed,
they have now been presenLed to the Government and the Association. Imple-
mentation of some of the recommiendations is under way and provided the award
of contracts for equipment and spare parts is not delayed, the project
should be completed on schedule. The Government has selected consultants
for the feasibility studies of about 600 kms of roads. 350 kms of these
roads are likely to form the basis for a second highway project in the future.
Credit No. 447 Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) Project; US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project will help the Industrial Bank of Sudan, which is an
existing development finance company, to function more effectively in financ-
ing industrial development in the private and public sectors in the Sudan.
The Credit became effective on March 15, 1974. The Credit was expected to
meet IBS' requirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through
1975, but business has expanded rapidly and the Association has already
approved sub-projects exceeding US$3.8 million. Negotiations for a second
credit for IBS have recently been substantially completed.
Credit No. 457 Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and provide the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary transport
modes by including components to assist river transport, port development and
civil aviation. The Credit: became effective on July 29, 1974. Contracts for
supply of much of the equipment under the credit have been awarded. We are
concerned at the lack of urgency shown in the effcrts to improve operational
efficiency, the major objective of the project and crucial for the country's
development program in general, and have raised this matter with the Govern-
ment at the highest level. We are also concerned at the possible impact on
the project of the decisiorn to accelerate the dieselization of the locomotive
fleet. Sudan Railways and their consultants are working on the training and
maintenance implications oi this decision.
Credit No. 476 Southern Re- on Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$10.7
Million Credit of June 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farmers,
(ii) expanding extension services (iii) establishing a center for nutrition



ANNEX 2
Page 4
research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production through a
program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also aims at
rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establishing the
nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and technical
assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit in the Ministry
of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included. The project
became effective on September 9, 1974. Some key staff members have been
appointed and work is in hand on recruiting further staff and providing
housing for them.  Seed trials and seed multiplication are under way.   The
associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by Germany, is
under way. A slow start to this project was expected. In view of the
difficulties faced in recruiting and housing staff for the project, it will
be a year or so before all components of the project are fully under way.
Credit No. 547 Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of May 1975;
June 30, 1982
The project will help meet the high priority education needs,
principally in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development
of a new type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Centre, for curriculum
development for schooling in the rural context and will support an education
sector survey. Discussions have been held on the proposed sector survey, and
a mission is in the field to review preparation for implementation of the rest
of the project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
RAtIA) IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:                        Originally US$42 million, now increased to
US$62 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                         Standard IDA Terms
Project Description:           The Project is the development of irrigated
agriculture on an area of about 300,000 feddans
on the east bank of the Rahad River using water
pumped from the Blue Nile. The Project, which
will take about seven years to develop, will
involve construction of all irrigation supply,
distribution and drainage works; installation
of agricultural processing equipment and storage
facilities; and settlement of some 14,000 tenant
families (70,000 people) with all the necessary
infrastructure. The Project is being executed
and operated by MOI and a new semi-autonomous
government agency, the Rahad Corporation, which
will provide agricultural services and advice
to its tenants.
Estimated Cost:                Refer to page 3 of this Annex.
Cost Increase and
Financing Plan:             The project cost without taxes and duties is
estimated to be US$240 million as opposed to
the original estimate of US$96 million.   The
foreign cost is estimated at $160 million as
opposed to $64 million originally. The increase
in the foreign exchange cost will be financed
by the Kuwait Fund ($39 million), the Saudi
Fund for Development ($28 million), Arab Fund
($9 million), and IDA ($20 million). The
Government will meet the increased local cost
of the project, together with custom duties,
import surcharge, development tax and foreign
exchange tax totalling $81 million.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
Actual and
Estimated Disbursements:       1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
------------------ US$ million --------------------
0.4      1.7     11.3       21.7     18.6     8.3
Procurement Arrangements:     Procurement of goods and construction contracts
by international competitive bidding would
amount to about US$111 million (including
US$9 million financed by the Arab Fund); con-
struction by negotiated contracts with Govern-
ment construction corporations would be about
US$24 million and by Government force account
about US$17 million. Kuwait Fund parallel
financing would amount to about $17 million.
USAID is providing US$11 million for equipment
and machinery to be purchased in the U.S.A.
Procurement under local competitive bidding
and miscellaneous procedures would amount to
about $60 million.
Consultants:                  Consultants have been employed to design, prepare
tender documents and supervise construction of
the major irrigation and land levelling works,
main roads and bridges, electrical transmission
system, ginneries and other major buildings,
and to procure equipment and machinery. They
will also review the design of the major canals
to be constructed by the Government, propose any
necessary changes and advise where requested on
any other work. They will also assist the
Project Executive Director to coordinate the
implementation of the Project.
Rate of Return:               The economic rate of return is estimated at
about 16.5% as compared with 13.5% at the
time of presentation of the original project
to the Board.
Appraisal Report:             No. PA-139b dated February 16, 1973.



ANNEx 3
SUDAN                                                Page 3
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
REVISED PROJECT COST ESTIMATE (SUMARY)-
Foreign       Local       Total      Foreign        Local        Total
----- LSd '000          ----------  ------------US$ '000 -----------
Preliminaries                                    -           175         175          -            438           438
Irrigation Works
Supply Canal                              5,877        5,640      11,517       14,693       14,100        28,793
Distribution, Drainage
and .oads                             2,978        4,796       7,774        7,445       11,990        19,435
Materials and Structures                   1,327         145        1,472       3,318          363         3,681.
New Equipment, Vehicles                    5,039         834       5,873       12,598        2,085        14,683
and Spare Parts
Buildings                                      6,026       1,667        7,693      15,065        4,168        19,233
Services and Utilities                         1,836         630        2,466       4,590         1,575        6,165
Transmission Lines (CEWC)                      2,320         779        3,099       5,800         1,948        7,748
Agricultural Equipment, Vehicles
and Spare Parts                           4,714          884       5,598       11,784        2,209        13 993
Processing and Storage                         8,584       1,625       10,209      21,459        4,062        25,521
Project Highway System (ex Light               2,500       1,700       4,200        6,250        4,250        10,500
Railway
Public Health                                  1,574         396        1,970       3,935           990        4,925
Seed Production and Research
Farm Equipment                                85          63          148         213           158          371
Settlement                                     2,047       1,543        3,590       5,117         3,857        8,974
Administration and Overheads                     169       1,270        1,439         423         3,175        3,598
Consultants                                    1,608         480        2,088       4,020         1,200        5,220
Training                                         200         -            200         500           -            500
Feasibility Study - Stage II                     400          50          450       1,000           125        1,125
SUB-TOTAL                47,284      22,677       69,961     118,210        56,693      174,903
Contingencies
Physical 2/                               4 ,796       2,613       7,409       11,990        6,532        18,522
SUB-TOTAL                52,080      25,290       77,370     130,200        63,225      193,425
Price Escalation 2J                       11,880       6,473      18,353       29,700       16,183        45,883
TOTAL WITHOUT TAXES OR DUTIES                 63.960      31,763       95.723     159,900        79,408      239,308
TAXES AND DUTIES                                        32.57                                  81,425
GRAND TOTAL                                        128,293                                320,733
1/ A detailed comparison of appraisal and present cost estimates is given in Annex 6, Table 1.
2/ Details of criteria are given in Annex 6.
April 30, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SUDAN
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture and Irrigation Methods
Long-furrow Irrigation
1.        From the inception (1964) of the feasibility studies for the Project
financed under the Roseires Irrigation Project (Loan 284-SU and Credit 2-SU)
until the present time, it has been recognized by the Government, their
consultants and the financing agencies that the Rahad Irrigation Project
ought to possess a potential for much higher crop production than existing
irrigation projects in the Sudan. This potential depends upon the introduc-
tion of long-furrow irrigation, a system of water management at the field
level likely to be better adapted to the soils and agricultural crops of
the Sudan clay plains than the basin irrigation system used in previous
irrigation schemes. Furthermore, it was recognized that the Rahad Project
might make an important indirect contribution to the further development
of irrigated agriculture in the Sudan if it demonstrated the advantages of
long-furrow irrigation in such a manner as to influence the adoption of the
system in other projects.
2.        The Rahad Project feasibility report (1965) recommended the adop-
tion of long-furrow irrigation. However, at that time no agricultural in-
vestigations of long-furrow irrigation had been made on the soils of the
Sudan clay plains. IDA therefore made it a condition of financing the
Tambul Pilot Farm (financed under the Roseires Irrigation Project) that
this method of irrigation should be investigated there. Work commenced
in 1969.
3.        By the time of the February 1972 appraisal mission's visit to the
farm, much progress had been made with the program of crop trials but the
evidence from crop yields was not yet conclusive to establish the degree of
comparative advantage of long-furrow over the traditional basin irrigation.
The Appraisal Report therefore assumed conservative yield levels based upon
those being obtained elsewhere under basin irrigation; it called for the
project irrigation and drainage systems to be designed in a manner suitable
for eventual conversion to long-furrow irrigation, but it did not include
costs or benefits attributable to the adoption of a long-furrow system on
levelled land.
4.        By the 1972/73 crop harvest, the initial problems of introducing
long-furrow irrigation having been overcome, the Tambul Pilot Farm was
producing considerably higher yields of cotton and groundnuts under long-
furrow irrigation than those obtained under basin irrigation. These high
yields have been maintained consistently at Tambul in the succeeding years.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
They now justify a reassessment of the place of long-furrow irrigation in
the Project.
5.        The following table shows a comparison between the yields of cotton
and groundnuts assuned in the Appraisal Report and those now projected for
the Project on the basis of the introduction of long-furrow irrigation as a
component of the Project. The long-furrow yields have been derived from
yields obtained over the past three years in large-field trials at Tambul,
discounted by 40% to take account of the lower yields expected when crops
are grown on a project-wide scale.
Potential and Anticipated Crop Yields
Seed Cotton                     Groundnuts
Appraisal /1    Long-furrow        Appraisal /1  Long-furrow
------- Kantars/fed -------                  m ton/fed ---
Potential                 9.0              14.0             1.5            2.0
Anticipated
Year 1                    3.5               5.0             0.4            0.6
2                   4.5                6.0             0.5            0.8
3                   5.0                7.0             0.6            1.0
4                   5.5                7.5             0.7            1.1
5                   6.0                8.0             0.8            1.2
6                   6.0                8.0             0.85           1.2
7 and thereafter    6.0                8.0             0.90           1.2
/1   Annex 2, paragraph 38, of the appraisal report (No. PA-1396).
6.        The levels of production shown above for long-furrow cultivation
assume that the irrigation canal system has been laid out in such a manner
as to take optimum advantage of existing land slopes for field irrigation
layouts, that land-levelling has been carried out, that an adequate system
of surface drainage has been installed and that early planting is introduced
for both cotton and groundnuts. The Project already includes provision
for suitable irrigation and drainage layouts; to introduce long-furrow
irrigation would require only the execution of an appropriate land-levelling
program and the allocation of irrigation water by MOI for early planting.
A satisfactory program for the timely supply of this irrigation water has
been agreed by MOI.
7.        The Project consultants have made a preliminary study of land-
levelling requirements and will be undertaking shortly more detailed studies
based on sample areas. The costs of land-levelling included in the revised
cost estimates represent their best present judgement, to which a provision
for additional physical contingency has been added.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Design of the Irrigation Distribution System
8.        An irrigation distribution system for long-furrow irrigation has
to be designed in such a manner as to (a) provide a sufficient head of water
in the field distribution channel for siphons to be operated to deliver water
on to the field; and (b) make opL. mum use of the slope of the land. At the
Tambul Pilot Farm experience has .,hown that field slopes in the range 0.02
to 0.04 percent should be aimed c:.   These requirements are exacting and
there is little margin available for error, particularly where the land is
as flat as it is in parts of the Rahad Project area. The design criteria
for both the irrigation distribution and drainage systems are very different
from those of the basin irrigation systems which have always been used in
the Sudan in the past.  For this reason the Project Description in the Credit
Agreement describes the irrigation distribution and drainage system speci-
fically as having to be constructed in a manner "suitable for eventual
conversion to long-furrow irrigation".
9.        In order to achieve the most economical design taking into consid-
eration the costs of construction of Minor Canals, Abu Ishreens and Abu
Sittas (tertiary and quaternary canals) and of land-levelling, the Govern-
ment agreed at the Kuwait meeting that the designs for the irrigation dis-
tribution system should be reviewed by the consultants.
Irrigation Water Supplies for Earlier Planting
10.       Agricultural research results at the Tambul Pilot Farm indicate
that crop yields even higher than those indicated at paragraph 5 above would
be achieved if even earlier planting were adopted than that assumed in rela-
tion to present yield forecasts. Earlier planting would require the use of
stored water which would be contrary to the present policy of the Ministry of
Irrigation. However, the feasibility study for Stage II development, to be
undertaken by the Project consultants, will include a study of the feasibility
of adopting earlier planting in the Rahad Stage I Project and the Government
has agreed to send the financing agencies an analysis of this feasibility and
to take the views of the agencies into account before taking a decision on the
matter.
Groundnut.Hay and Livestock Development
11.       In the northern Sudan there is a severe shortage of animal feeding
stuffs of good nutritive value in the dry season. Almost the only feeding
stuff available from November to June is sorghum (dura) straw, the feeding
value of which is sufficient only as a maintenance ration.
12.       A well-grown groundnut crop will produce about one ton of ground-
nut hay per feddan as a by-product. The quality of this hay is closely
related to the method by which it is harvested. Mechanical harvesting as
proposed for the Rahad Project is particularly suitable for the production
of hay of good quality because the groundnut tops can be picked up by a
baler before they have dried and the leaves of the plant (containing most



ANNEX 4
Page 4
of the nutrients) have become brittle and fallen off. The methods of hand
harvesting used elsewhere in the Sudan result in the loss of most of the
leaf, consequently the hay has low feeding value and negligible market
value.
13.       At the Tambul Pilot Farm groundnut hay is being baled after the
nuts have been harvested by a combine harvester. It is being sold profitably
to livestock owners, the cost of harvesting by baler being only a small pro-
portion of the sale price of the hay. Recovery of the hay requires only the
provision of balers; sufficient tractors to supply the motive power would
be available at this season without additional investment being necessary.
The cost of the balers (b,Sd. 200,000) needed to harvest the Project's pro-
duction of groundnut hay has been included in the revised cost estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SUDAN
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
1.        A comparative table of the costs of the Project, at the time of
appraisal and at present, is given in Table I of this Annex. The costs are
also summarized in Annex 3, page 3.
Notes on New Cost Estimate
2.        Contracts to a total value -of about US$47 million had been let as
at May 31, 1975. This amount, the only part of the Project cost for which
the cost estimates are confirmed by awarded contracts, represents only a
minor proportion of the total Project costs. Physical contingencies and
price escalation therefore continue to represent a high proportion (37%) of
total Project costs without taxes and duties.
3.        The civil works and buildings estimates are based mainly on a
comparison with unit costs for similar works awarded after international or
local competitive tendering in the Sudan during the past two years. They
are, therefore, more firmly based than was possible at appraisal, at which
time no internationally-bid major contracts for comparable works had been
awarded in the Sudan for a number of years.
4.        The estimates for equipment, vehicles, and materials are based on
actual tenders received or current price quotations for similar items.
5.        In all cases, and especially for the roads estimate, where quan-
tities have been based only on preliminary engineering, additional provi-
sions have been made for physical and price contingencies which we believe
are adequate.
6.        The rate of exchange used in the cost estimates (bSd 1.00 = US$2,500)
is the effective rate, since the official rate (ESd 1.00 - US$2,872) is not
used in the Sudan except for export sales of cotton and gum arabic.
7.        The estimates have been reviewed thoroughly by the Government, its
consultants, IDA and KF in order to reduce costs to a minimum. As a result
of the reviews the original cost estimates for a number of items, including
buildings, ginneries and roads, have been reduced by the elimination or
postponement of expenditure not considered immediately essential to the
attainment of projected benefits.
Reasons for Increase in Project Costs
8.        As mentioned in paragraph 45 of the main report, the reasons for
the increase in Project basic costs (both foreign exchange and local costs),
eliminating the increase due to increased physical contingencies and future
price escalation, have been classified broadly as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
US$ million     %
Improvements in the project                      16.5        12
Price increases since appraisal                   34.0       24
Increase in cost of irrigation works,
building, electrification etc. due to
changes in design ancd quantities, or
under-estimate at appraisal                    43.5        30
Increase in Project base cost estimates     94.0
Increase in contingencies                        49.2        34
Total increase in Project cost                   143.2      100
9.        Including physica:L and price contingencies, the additional cost
of the improvements to the project is estimated to be $23 million.    The foreign
exchange components of the increased costs arising from improvements in the
Project are as follows:
US$'000
Introduction of long-furrow irrigation
Land levelling                      4,000
Training                              500   4,500
Hay balers to harvest groundnut hay               500
Electrification                                1,500
Buildings                                      5,000
Consultants' services                            500
Total                     ]L2,000
Nith physical and price contingencies the total foreign exchange cost of
these improvements is US$17.0 million.
10.      'Changes which have occurred since signature of the Credit in parity
between the US dollar and the currencies of countries expected to be suppliers
of goods and services account for an estimated US$3 million of the increase
in Project costs.
11.       Details of the improvements are as follows:
(a)  Introduction of long-furrow irrigation
As described in Annex 4, the accelerated introduction of
long-furrow irrigation is expected to lead to a significant
increase in yields of cotton and groundnuts. These yield
increases will improve the economic internal rate of return



ANNEX 5
Page 3
of the Project by about 3% to over 16%.   The additional
foreign exchange cost for the introduction of long-furrow
irrigation would be about US$4,500,000 (land levelling
US$4,000,000 and training of Project staff and farmers
US$500,000). The processing of the additional quantities
of cotton and groundnuts would be undertaken without
additional capital cost by extending the processing season.
(b) Harvesting of Groundnut Hay
The cost of balers to recover groundnut hay (see Annex 4)
which would be almost valueless without baling, would be
about US$500,000. This would lead to the recovery of hay
valued at about US$1,160,000 annually.
(c) Electrification
At Project appraisal, the Government?s intention was to locate
Project Headquarters in the northern end of the Project area
and the cost estimate in the appraisal report was prepared by
the Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) for the
electrification system needed for that location. When the
decision was made to proceed with the construction of the
Wad Medani - Gedaref highway passing through the middle of
the Project area, the Government decided, correctly, to
relocate the Project Headquarters to a more central area where
it could be served by the new highway. It also decided to build
up the Headquarters area into an agro-industrial center.
These two changes required a substantial revision of the
electrification program increasing both the length and the
capacity of the transmission lines. The relocation of the
Project Headquarters will improve administrative control of
the Project and reduce travelling for Project staff. It will
also halve the distance from the Headquarters to the Project's
railhead at Hawata. The amount of the foreign exchange cost
increase for electrification attributable to improvement of
the project is about US$1,500,000 equivalent.
(d) Buildings
At Project appraisal the Government intended to adopt for the
housing of Project staff three new types of standard Govern-
ment houses designed to introduce maximum economies of cost
over previously-existing standard types. The new types of
house had been introduced for the first time in the Es Suki
project which was nearing completion at the time of appraisal.
The appraisal cost estimates for Project houses were conse-
quently based on the use of these designs. Within two years
of the completion of construction of the Es Suki scheme it
had become apparent that these designs were not suitable.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The standard of construction had been reduced to a level
which was unable to resist the movement resulting from the
shrinking and swelling of the cracking clays that are
typical of the area, and this led to termite intrusions,
roofs and walls admitting rainwater and unacceptably high
annual maintenance costs. There was inadequate insulation
and ventilation against heat and the houses were too small.
As a result of thtese deficiencies the Es Suki project
management was experiencing difficulty in attracting staff.
In view of this, the Government decided to improve its
housing standards and, since the Rahad Project area is as
remote from existing population centers as Es Suki and, due
to its more intensive agriculture, will require a higher
level of Project management staff, decided to commence the
introduction of iinproved standard houses at Rahad to ensure
that housing inadequacies will not be a deterrent to the
formation of an efficient management cadre there.
The new houses have been designed by the Ministry of
Construction and Public Works with the assistance of the
Sudan Building Research Center.   The designs have been
reviewed by the Project consultants, who have also obtained
advice on foundation problems from the U.K. Building Research
Center. It was originally the Government's intention to
adopt a type of foundation design (reinforced medium-length
bored piles linked with suspended grade beams) which would
entirely eliminate structural maintenance problems but as a
result of further reviews (para 16) it has decided to adopt
a solution combining a lower capital cost with acceptable
annual maintenance costs. The adoption of this design
(unreinforced short-bored piles linked with suspended grade
beams) is expected to result in a reduction of about US$5
million in capital cost for the Project, as compared with
the solution using the more expensive foundation system.
However, the additional foreign exchange cost of the housing
over the appraisal estimate resulting from the adoption of
the improved standards is still about US$5 million.
The new housing designs have now been adopted as the standard
designs for the housing of Government staff in the Sudan,
replacing the Es Suki and former types for all new construc-
tion.
12.       The increase in the base costs for the provision of consultants'
services relevant to the improvements incorporated in the Project relates to:
(a) the extension of the services to be provided by the Project
consultants to include services not provided for at appraisal
(services to the new Project Executive Director for Project
coordination and reporting; to the Ministry of Construction



ANNEX 5
Page 5
and Public Works in connection with the construction of
buildings for Blocks; to the Rahad Corporation for a study
of transportation alternatives leading to the choice of
Project roads instead of a light railway system; and the
widening of the scope of feasibility studies for a Stage II
project to include basin studies for the future development
of both irrigation and hydro-electric generation); and
(b) the employment of a firm of electrical engineering con-
sultants (SGI, Switzerland) to provide services to the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation for Project
electrification.






?I9oo ~  90 00  600   L00 oo39'Tl 900"'1'       oo-o it  0009   0000 00CC  061,0  00                  oo 
U60090  *'91 91  0'Et  0761.  I/o 66                0090C  099   000    010Z  50001  009  i                        0'0o  os 0,9
009 000  0991  9004  000' 0L  0 0V~  00000         0000   000 0i'  0000F - 09000  0000.T--T   0o6 00u?oo-o
"01'o  1W I  00 9_  9609'   009,00  96LSo 90090         00S   0L,0        9  6  00
/01      -    09    09     11                       090     -     -    09    00   00
900  ,     o6~~~~S  I00     0                            -     -
900CZ          9    000-  00off7                      0   '    Y        10    0 
090  -  90  000   .   091               ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- SL  ____________ T
too  -  1  000  00  030                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~os  .                                           9090 51 ~
00  I    30  L0;,  000   Z`,0                  000    0           000  0  091  00                          0000000  pI, /.I ...
zi  8 iI 1-i 9  091  ol  oi   CEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000900
990    09p   LoZ   (9'.  000                       0o                 000  _ C`i.  W91
000  -    -    Oco~ ~~                              ~ ~ 000  -  -i  000  91                                       0w0oh1--d-
990/0   000   CZ    OOZ'  Oil   050                  00-' 0              00    60  0003,j                                   ,p
00   9L   00   tOOD'  00'  09                    00     00    0     CO    00   0
ZW E,  "Z'i  CZ   ot   se~~~~~~~~~~-j   w  -, 8  _OgT'z__ _   CCt  -S   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~z qo   ~~~~z  S61  C00000
000  90  0  000  00  90,               000    00    01    090   00   '00  0 ~~~~~~~ill0000-0 90 ,,             000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-0                                                                          0 0 0 0   0 0 9 0
Z  I[  05t C  oz,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00,0000 0 000001100 0~0
000 00  969 0  010 ,  cOO 00Z  0000  002        0iT'   cOoL  00    0900   ,   i       ~DP         b "--d        P00-9
-  0  0 I  0  00  '0  6  -                -     -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5L  CI-  .-...
009  090  00  000  90  060            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Li 000 00  00  090  09 0                  0ooO
6C  ZI  tc,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  CB  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    bH dl P'll~~~00.000 0000000
90      90    00    O     19    OttS                 CCt    oO    09     001  00   00                                   90090
160  01    99001  00  9'                   N      00 r00       000   BO  '059000-0
ss~~~-i  Da  61,  LOZ'                        0  00o  0     0     00,  0  000  oilO                    00  o,0  opo    90
166  000  00  100  00.  000,~~~~~~6W        00      0 I          00    00  09  000                          00'
000         01    0
0,  60  00  090  09  000              0-                        -        0            00000 ,00000009000.oo!Ooo,ooo,o 0000000000c- Dwi  (P
090C 00 000   09    100   OL' :9                      0'    Oo   00     0060  000,  060010,-0
0090    Tgl   90    9'  07C  'NbT                 1   9   F   9   T      '  09  09tOo0000
00'      ol   9o 0,  L   00     0, 0                        S 0   00    000   000  009              0__.Wes
0009  00,.  000  309~,L   oOt  0000             000'   00L   09C   000,  000  00            0000    0,001OOOOW.OIqoooo
ot I-              -1    IT000000
99  2`90       009   00    030:"0o5o9009
T                           -090T'00                               000   01   00!                   90  07p9,o000   --0o,OO0  000
00'  00    0   ZOo 0  090 - 000"?"               002  0  ~  Q     000   00~  000
-  -  -          101000019 000  0/010000/,  -'-00  ,  000,
-6,     0           ,o    S     o                    000   0     00,   090   00   00                     0000 100000 00001
90  00    0    90   'oO ~~~~L                   097    I     I      0    0   00                             oooo91000  oo
000      000 1   00  00.  0..0.0                             0    0      0   00   0                                0000000000
1 1 00-1  00-  90    00   00?                        01     O    00     90T9'     I                       0000090oO_OooOooo
0110 0------- - 1-90--0   ----10000 -----         --  00------ 000--  00 -00  090- 000-000000000-1000






ANnEFX 41
Table I
Page 1
SUDAN
RAllW IRRIGATION PRWJECr
Revised P-a--e,at Plan
Total sitihosL     Foreigp E-change      Other lanes        .at at
Foreign     Local     T-a.e aod Datios           Too              and lot is -   Ta-s and Uetes
-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -   (I Sd   '0002  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A. JOINT FINANCING (100, Kanit Fond Sandi Food)!-
Ia) tetorntio-a  Cn,ee-ti-e Biddino
Mi   Loran Conateantlon Coot-at
I.  Irrigation Works - pataps. Rahad Barr - ag                        1,902       787         2,689                 279                 901               3,869
2.  B_tldions - 09ad Ce-pa - Otilnes-.n-khps
tabdi,itioc,, etc.                                             3,732      818          4,550                 530                 124,1
3. C borneo                                      7,950     1,3~~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~      ~~93  9.34  1,1107  1,3 79  I.1
4.  ilecrica1 s-bstaci-n and -ranmi-aioa tines iFPWCl                 2,200       749          2,949                330                1,061             4,344
(ii)  Snail Ca...tr-tos Cootrats
I.  Wae,ne      2 at Port Sodas)                                        131       56            187                  20                  644 
2   D. ltncriea-o haildiogo                                              35       35             70                   5                   17                9.?
3. S-eic-    and ailito-      tstpp,irrigation and
drainage     inera  roads and keidge                           1,123      412           1,535                 140                545               2.2-
(li")  S,teel Cntract toe tnicsest. Vehicles and Materials
I  qnp,nent -ato    cnto    eqaipset _ RahaBrag                       398       31            339                  47                 149                914
Watrcnrl .    c.qsip-net - distibution no  drainge syates        377        75            452                  57                 183                4'
H.I_opta  n  cin_ic eqaipseec                                    114        91            205                  17                  55                272
bond prod-ation nod -oa-ah fars eq.ipseet                         85       63            148                   12                 41                 211
r    onnn    icato  s  ra,s yph.on                         2/        553       161            714                  84                 2691,6
Vehl.Iicles "and eqoiypsett-IrrIgatIon and Rhttd Corportion            901       179          1,1 00                130                 4277171
-Pbhlic knolth                             160       32             9224                                   124                242
Irrigation bydraIi. lcteoon.. (diatribation 4 drainage)
-ed i-rgatinnree-itlngsnhdieisiacs. sections and
coPi.nc    coloy tenses                                          950       70          1,020                 147                 461                424il
na ilony heidgo                                                   S7         6            63                   9                   2                  o
Ch-ntoala toe pahbli health                                      513        11            524                  77                 248                049
(i)Con-tnaeni- for (i), (ii) and (till akev                             8,224     7,219         10.741               1,226               2,927             14,596
Oak-Total                     29,335     2,188        36,523               4,283               10,069             50,425
(6)  Nenetilaed Contractst nick G-n7anot Cnepa-ton
1. Sapply cana   s__t_ana
He ia Panphos- and Disder Syphos )PCOIW)                       2,950     2,550         5,500                  398               1,285              2.192
7.  Ro.ildinac for Blaks  PCB)                                        1,459      477           1,936                204                 558                  9
3. Cost isge-i-                                                       I1 2347    978          7~ 275                181                 565              2.921
Sab-Tnta1                      St53 I&3                                                         Z)(
In Farce Anconot
1.  Oak-station  and           Insoiso  inen lee lana  oc--...--
C_op HtQs                                                        120        30            150                  17                  58               2125
2.  Ser_lt_ and otilitie-elctteldintribotion (PREWC),
villa geactor nopilna IFB)                                 992       332          1,329                 149                 4A2) 6
3. Land-tenot.'ling                                                   1855      1,145         3,008                  171                555               i,22h
4.  C-ntiges-it-                                                      1,351      81t          2,166                  145                541              2,872~
Oab-Total.17                             23-18         6,645                 502                1,636             8.783
(dl Mliscetlaneous
B. Coesotants-
Projet cos    rsa1,340                                                     390          1,730                 201                 -                1,931
Electrtil-tto-nes-   BeatsL )POWC)                               165        71            236                  24                 -                  24
Feasikility Scady                                                400        50           450                  60                  -510
2. Tranig200,                                                                     -              200                 30                   4                 234
3. C-stingennion                                                       939       2 28         1,167                 041                   2              1_310
S.b-T.t.t                      3IWC       2-39          3,783                456                 -                  ,4
Totat                         42,342    1420          5,16,024                                 14j,119            6,25
B. PARAI,IEI  pINANCING
Ve hccl- and Eqnip-et -                                             130        252          1,582                 199                 811              2.592
Q              I_ig.t,..le1igat Inn
AgIcoltoro                                                   3,1154      611          3,765                 472               1,12
2.  Cootingenetot  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                   473          2,1613                33                  983
2.  1 ga ~~~~i               S.ba-Total                     i,624     1,336          7,960               1,002               2,915             11,077
it) dAb,, Fond
1.FrJent bigh.ay sYston375
Canateectio, is-I. engineerin.   naintena...oq.ipstat          2,508     1,700          4,208                 325                 832,1 2
2.  _atingencien                                                       ,o       .t8           218                    9                   3                .2
luk-Totat                      3,600     2,788          6,388                 571               1,274              8,233
tSAI   Eapet       eksy,vice.dcttaea427                                             721          5,018                 645               1,a42              7,505
2.  C1nlat                                                               03        19           1L22                 15                                   -137
Sak- T.tat                     4 400       740          5.140                 660                 84762
Total1462                                4,864         19,48                2,233               4,031             27.752
C, GOVERBNMENT (Forc  Antoant, L_1n Conpetitio  Bidding and Min-ltaoonss)                      17
I.  1rlsneis-                                                                     15175                             -                                       175
2.  Bailnp bridgetonstration (Sadan Beitnap)-                               106            106                          -                             106
3. Sapply coast noav    1on .eoing honk                                 660     2,60           20098                                    3213,9
4, Dintnikation and d-aisage nyton                                    2, 978    4,796          7.774                 432               1,397              9,613
5,  C.natrantion eqaiptst (Irrigation)                                  388        39            427                 158                  58                543
6.  Bsildie~gs Ioe -adviinsadpasknaeoa               (irrigation)       831       372          1,20718301,5
7,bnorthotes (2 aPHashata                                          131        17            189                                      63                22
8. Wettlnont-    bakcernt n2aan             atni                        142      385             527                  26                                   618
9,St      -        andh ovre    ds                                      168 P,270t             1,439                  25                  82              1,146
Adtstnittratioe                                   B~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~,671  3,289  4,96  2611                               403
to.  C-otisgan-ios-
Total                          6,9T      2,471,2                            1,032               1,3.13t2,
omaot  TOTiI.  62.960  Iin2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2.LaA ~~~~23,28I                              128.293
t/ this tabln In ea  entiretY c0sistoat wick tke tabte in paeogap    46 of the tet kenessn  can cant taklo ahon  the f-ri2~,t col.ng   l-nt nofietocto -hprca-d
p-pstlo ond-r the boadlog a"et Floaneing - niactt,t,.ph~
2/ taJnit,asts-tn-d Ist     tar lIlA/l  Joist finantcng ap to April 30, t975.
la~y 2, 19T7h



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Page 2
SUDAN
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
REVISED COST ESTIMATES (March 1975)
CRITERIA FOR CCNTINGENCIES AND TAXES AND DUTIES
A.   Criteria for Contingencies
(1) Physical: ranging between 5% and 15%, depending upon the
stage of design and procurement of the items.
(a) Civil works and construction contracts:
(1) where designs and tender documents have been
prepared                                            7-1/2%
(ii) where outline designs have been prepared
sufficient for a Bill of Quantities for
tendering purposes                                 10%
(iii)  where detailed engineering and outline
designs have not been prepared in suffi-
cient detail for a Bill of Quantities              15%
(b) Supply contracts
(i) Water Control Equipment
Contract R2/1 - now awarded                         5%
(ii) where procurement items have been listed
and identified in detail                            7-1/2%
(iii) whlere procurement items have not been
listed and identified in detail                    15%
(2)  Price Escalation
Price Escalation assumed
uniform over foreign and local cost                          12% per annum
Escalation applied at the midpoint of each year's
estimated total disbursement.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Page 3
B.   Criteria for Taxes and Duties
(1) Foreign Exchange Tax of 15% has been applied to the total
foreign currency component under each head.
(2) Quay Duty
Quay Duty (about 1.5%) has been applied to all foreign
currency components which represent c.i.f. costs of
imports.
(3) Import Duty
An Import Duty of 40% has been applied to all foreign
currency components which represent c.i.f. costs of
imports, except:
(a) Ginning Complex - which as an industry is not liable
to pay on most of the imports except possibly
steel for the structures and vehicles. An average
of 10% has been assumed on the total foreign component.
(b) Agricultural Plant - which mostly is liable for a duty
of 20%, except vehicles. Duty for vehicles varies
according to use; an average of 70% has been taken.
(c) No import duties have been applied to foreign
components in respect of Consultants' fees and
similar costs.
(4) Import Surcharge and Development Tax
In addition to the import duty, a 5% import surcharge and a
2% development tax have been applied to c.i.f. value of
all imports.
(5) Summary
F.E. Tax                15% on Foreign Cost
Duties                  8.5% + Import Duty on c.i.f. cost
C. Annex 6, Table 2
This table shows the way in which disbursements will be made
by the joint-financing partners, and indicates the approximate contri-
bution to be made by each agency to the major items to be procured.



Annex 6
Table 2
4.                                                                                                                     4,
4*4                                                                                                                   44
0<4,                                              0,4,
4,0,                                              444.
444,                                              ox                                                                  0,44
44o                                               4,40<
0                                                                                                                    4,4,
4,                                              4,4,                                                                  44
<.0.4,                                               4<
o                                                 4444,.                                                              4424,.
4,                                             04,                                                                  444,
B                                                        .04,                                                                0<0,
0      a     I
4,
440,4,               o      a   o    o        00                    0           a    a               a      a    a               a    a    a   a           a        a
040<4               0      g    0   0         0   0   0             a           a   a                a      a    n               a    a   a    a           a
0-.         4,0            4,04                 0          00                    0      00                   00CC                      <4CC
0      0<   0   0            .    4,           0<          04   0         ,      0<    <44  C                -   0     '4  a
0<4.4                                44          -   4,       0,  0<                 0          0    4,               4,    0<   0<               0   <4,  <4  -
4.              44                   0<     .0  .4, 4,4,  .4,  0<  0<  0<  0<                   00<                   4-4        0<              0<        0<0<
4,                                                                                          4,4,                    4,4,
4-.                                                                                                                 4.4.                    4.4,
44                     4,                                                                                          4,4,                     4,4,
4,. 4.                                                                                        4.44                    04.
<8!                     <8!
4,08                    0<                                                                                           4,                      4.
4,                                                                                         04,                     <--4.
8                    44444
8
4,4,                 <       4       0         0 a                           a 0           0       0      0 C                  0 0 a a                                   -
4.               8      8 8      8        oc       a                        a    a        a      a      a    a                a a      o   a           -             aalacl:
0,4              0      0    0   0        00       0                        0    0        C       0<     0   a                a   4,   C   0<           -.                          4
      .04-              .4,0<0<                            04           0      0      OC
4,              0      0<  -    0<       0<0<     0,
0<     0<  0<   4,                0<                       0<   4,       0<      0          0<               -e       0<  -4           *       .0
<82                                       0<
<8
4,                                                    0
0      0    8   0        00       0             0          0    0         8     8      8    C>               0   0   C    0<          a         a   a   ca        a
0                        00                                Co                        08                    8<8 a 8                             g gg            <8
0<                   4,     o   a    0        00       0             0<         0    0        0      0      a    4.4             0    44  0    0           a         <88<8<8<8
4.81                                                                          0<  0                0<         0<               0   .0  0<   0<          0<        4'  0<  0<4,      0<
->
4,   0<                  0,   0<                 4,       0,         4,.                                                       4,  '4.
44   4.                       .4            4,   44,      04       ..04,.                 4,                               4,  4,   4.
                        2    4,           0<   4,       4,        4,4                    4,4,                            4,  0<   44
4.   0,            4.  .44       4.       4,4,            0<     4.4,                            0    4,.  4,
44<8.4.       0<         4.4,               4,4.         .44,.     4.              4,     4,4,                             4,4.4.
4.,    0<.    4,             44                 0<          0,     4.4,            0<     444                             4.   0,   4,     0<0<0
4,  0<0       040<       4,                  0<           4,4,                     4      444,                                     4.      44,
4.0<        4,  4,              4,0<        4440                     4.      20<   4,
4.4,       4.4.4                4,4,        4.44                     44     4,     0,0<      0,  4.0<0<      44  0<  0<      00,0<
<8                                 4,          4,4,                     4.     0, 4,4.o04,44          4,4,      n   4,              '4
0,       0<                       4,      444,  0<   44  44    4,4,4,    '4,   0,4.4.0<4.
0<4,       0                    4,0,       4.4,                               4.   4.  <4   4,              4440            0-4,
0<<8        5                   4.0,        4,4,0                    4,     4,4.   0<   4,  4.   4.4,4,          4,            0,0,
        <8         440<        0,                        0,    4.4,        <4  44    4,044,     .0  4,   40     444,4,
0,4, 4, 4,4,. 4, 4.0, '4. 4, 0,4..4 0, 4, '4 4,0<4.
00<        0,                    0,4.   4,  4,4,                     .4      44.   4,   .4  4,    44,4.     44   4,. 4<      4,
4,       4.           0       4.    0    4,4,                      0<     *o     4,  .4   0    4,.444    4.   4.   4,     4,4,0<
4.4,       44                   4,4.   44   444.                     .00<    4.4.  -    .4       .04,0<      0,.  4   4,.    4,04,
4,0,                                                                 4.0<   0<4.  4.   0<   0<   0,4,4.     4,   4,.0.0.04,
4      0,  0,   0<0<   0<4,4  4,  4,.  -    4,4.444,   0<       4,     4,44,   4.
A                                                     40<4,40,44,0<4.4.4,4,                                  4,0<0,4,
4.0< 4.       4,4404.4.4.4.0,                               0.0.04,4.
<80<4,   0<4,        4,                         4,   4,0<0<                   4,      a 4.  4,   4,  0<    4,.0<0,   4,  4,
-             4,0<4,0<                               a    0,040    4,4,   4.   0,  <0,   4,0..  044       4,   4.4,  4,.0t4,t               no               0<
4,4,   4,0,   4,   4        4,4,4,     4.  0,     0,     .00<    0    4,         4.     0,
0,4,4.440,4.         4,4   4,   4,00.044.0.0                0<   4,4,4.4,   4,  4,    4,0,   4,444,        4.  .0    0<      4.
4.    .4,4.4.4.4.4,444.44.4,                          4,  4,4,4,   4,0<   4,  <8    4,4,   4,4,   4,  4    4,  44   4.0,       .0   4,0    4,4,4.   .    4,.  -      4      4,
O    444,4,                   4.4.44.44.0            4,     '4<0,4,       4,4.4.4.4.0<         0,       0<     00<4'
.0   0<0<   0<  0<       .g                    t.0O                    4.4,4.0<4.4.                4.4.0,4,   .               4,4,     44  0<   .0        4,
0<0<    <8    <8 A                      0,4,       0<4.0,0<                 4,0.44,4,         <8440<0.4.4.4                0<4.04.0<0<4,44.                   44
2    4,   4,4,  4.   4,           44      0,4.       0,40<    0<0    2    4,        4.0<   4.                                        0<4.4,    4   0<  4,    0   4,
440000                       oao-.-v                00<0<00<20<88<8<8 In 5<88<808<88<8<8Z 888
4,                                                                                             4             4,   4,
4,                                                                                             4,            4.   4,
4.  <4<                       4,4   40<    4-4,  00  0,  4'4         0<0<0<0<4,0<                           4,   0,
50<                               4,0,4,            4,0<                      00<        0<
4,   4,    0<      4,  4        0,         0<   4,  0<                    4,  0<   4.   4,
<80<4 4.
0<                                                   4,                                        0<            0<   0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SUDAN
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits and Costs
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project was calculated
in the appraisal report at 13.6% based on a project economic life of 50
years. The Project benefits "would be realized by changing unproductive
near-arid lands into irrigated farmland and improve the productivity,
income and general living conditions of 16,000 households in the area
and provide seasonal employment for 90,000 laborers". It was stated that
the Project would have a favorable impact on the national economy, espe-
cially the foreign exchange earnings which were estimated to increase by
US$42 million gross annually (US$27 million net). In addition, indirect
benefits could include increasing the level of agricultural technology in
the Sudan and training Sudanese staff, who could at a later stage employ
the improved methods in future development schemes.
2.        For our present analysis (see Table 1 of this Annex), the ERR was
calculated using the price forecasts of the Bank's Commodities and Export
Projections Division dated November 6, 1974, using 1980 prices in constant
terms. These prices were reduced to the net export value by deducting shipping
costs and port handling charges. Export duties were not deducted since these
are a part of the value to the national economy. It is expected that all of
the production would be exported except for vegetables and groundnut hay.
Project costs are net of import duties and also exclude price contingency.
Production costs for export commodities include transport to Port Sudan.
3.        It was assumed for the analysis that production would be based on
the cultivation of 116,000 feddans in 1977/78, an additional 100,000 feddans
in 1978/79 and the remaining 84,000 feddans in 1979/80. Long-furrow irriga-
tion would be introduced gradually, in step with the completion of levelling.
It was assumed that the techniques of long-furrow irrigation would not be
applied fully throughout the project area until 1983/84 and that in any one
year any land available for cultivation on which long-furrow irrigation was
not practised would be utilized under basin irrigation.
4.        The Project's economic internal rate of return under these assump-
tions would be 16.4%.
5.        Following the assumptions used in the appraisal report in order to
maintain a common basis for comparison between the two analyses, the following
specific assumptions were made:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(a) economic costs excluded cost of transmission lines,
public health services and feasibility studies for
future projects;
(b)  for long-furrow irrigation an additional 6Sd 2.55 million,
plus physical continge;;cy was included for land levelling
and LSd 0.2 million inoluded to cover the cost of training;
(c) production and management costs were based on the
appraisal report and increased by 40% to allow for the
increase in costs to the present time. For long-furrow
irrigation, costs of processing and transporting the
increased output were proportionately increased;
(d) all taxes, surcharges and import duties are internal
financial transfers and therefore do not represent true
economic costs;
(e) Neither wage labour nor foreign exchange was shadow priced.
6.        The main risks for the Project would be delayed execution and a
reduction in the market price of cotton and groundnuts.     As shown in para 7
below, the rate of return is relatively insensitive to them.
Sensitivity
7.         The following gives a comparison of the economic rates of return
under different assumptions:
Basic assumptions                            16.4
Costs increased 10%,
benefits constant                          14.4
Costs increased 20%,
benefits constant                          12.6
Benefits reduced 20%,
costs constant                             11.8
Benefits delayed two
years, costs constant                      11.8
Benefits delayed one year
and costs increased 10%                    12.1



SUDAN
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Pw     Under Long-Furrow Irrigation
Co----------------------------COSt I      --------Be ----------------------------------------------Benefits----------------------------------
Pump 4/
Year   Investment 2/    Production 3/    management 4/   Replacement  Baling 5/   Total      Cotton Lint 6/   Cottonseed 6/   Groundnuts 6/     Hay 7/    Vegetables 8/     Total     Net
1      6,013                                                                     6,013                                                                                             (6.013)
2     15,018                                                                    15,018                                                                                             (15.018)
3     22,116                                                                    22,116                                                                                            (22,116)
4      16,284                                                                   16,284                                                                                             (16,284)
5      8,228            5,431                698            129        20       14,506        4,721             929             845            67          256           6,818     (7.688)
6      2,761           10,067                864            129        44       13,865        9,988           1,966           1,844           145           512         14.455         590
7       -              14,068              1.098            129        75       15,370       16,214           3,192           3,165           250          640          23,461      8.091
8        -             14,068              1,098            129         94      15,389       19,316           3,803            3,973          313           640         28,045      12,656
9        -             14,068              1,098            129       114       15,409       22,007           4,333           4,803           379           640         32.162      16,753
10       -              14.068              1,098            129        128      15,423       24,037           4,732           5,421           427           640         35,257      19,834
11       -              14,068              1,098            129       135       15,430       24,995           4,921           5,727           452           640         36,735     21,305
12        -             14,068              1,098            129        139      15,434       25,542           5,028            5,986          465           640         37,571      22,13)
13       -              14,068              1,098            129        139      15,434       25,542           5,Oi8            5,896          465           640         37,571      22,13)
14       -              14,068              1,098            129        139      15,434       25,542           5,028            5,896          465           640         37,571      22,137
15       _              14,068              1,098            129        139      15,434       25,542           5,028            5,896          465           640         37,571      22,137
Total 70,420
1/  Econcti: costs e7cluding price escalation, import duties dnd surcharges.
2/ Excluding costs of electrification, public health aervices and feasibility studies
for future projects.
3/ Production and management costs were takcn as at appraisal and escalated at 407..
Production costs include transport to Port Sudan.
4/  Assuming a 10 year life for the pumps.
5/ Operating cost of balers for groundnut hay.
6/  Export commodities vere priced at the c.i.f. Liverpool price in accordance with the
latest forecast of-the Conmodities Division dated 11/6/74: US$0.52 lb for cotton.
US$193.0 metric toti for cottonseed and US$267.0 metric ton for groundnuts. These
prices were reduced by shipping costs and port handling charges.
7/  Priced at LSd 0.10-per bale on the field.
i/ Net income from vegetablea at LSd 32.0 per feddan as given in appraisal report.
April 23, 1975
hmI(
mix






J. DAh ',Uv'  2\t IA
__11f An,C-
2/t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i w' z po9                     KASSALA                            KHH EL
tDAM  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ig A
pt          @  t    \@\,\1,/,(~~~ Tumbul Pilot Form 
)                                                BuTANA   AREAt
IANEI       (0             '    V.'A\ 'Ii ZAm U P R  O V I N C EA
rlxlir\\    Pilot  FarmIACfI  -.U >t   mv                         fsT       s
2.Ha, tn-' 1.                                                                       , 
" -o'   - - ~RAHA                                                 Port Sudan
A A  ciL  :CIitAEa ,5  ) %  \ i   1c  t2,
C_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
K.~~~~~~~~~~~~A
BL U E N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I LzzE        B    A SU  v, ln*w
14                   1                       nIo
HADDADfz
|~~~           KEAN ;,*'SREAitn  rigto  cee xesos                   NAl LPR
SUDAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EHNZD
RAHAD IRRIGATION PROJECT  N I L E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IROEC II ECN
=  Project areaEitm               2  VTrnmsin 
~ Exi~~Kstigirgtio  schemess1                                                  MCHNIE
Existng irigaion achem  extensinsGTIORLJPAR
Fuuture canals           Lines             \    5   r        \    Rt     .i
-Existing canal  >0Q L  . Existing 110kV Transmission  Lnes e
Existing highways xsigSbthn  . R'
Proposed  project road a  E     Substations
uOther proposed highway    Project I lOhV Transmission Lies
,Rallwoyx  )r 
xridges,extstig ig o   Bridges, project \,E
=Rivers                                           )\                    /    
------ Provincial boundaries   e s                                     TIONAL P.RK
- - International boundary                    Dmzn  RSIE   A                                  n+ 
o   20   40  60   80   100                             ROSEIRES 01                               /
KILOMETERS        Th,hooodooe 0too  on ts nopdoonol is
- Future3canals  Litmiur>"sendillat,es            38  j                    36   JANUARY 1975






M-wt>X 2c8 GENERAL LAYOUT
*oo 1'0A '                                                                                                                                                         1
-13'30'                                                                                                                                                              13'30y
CXISTING UAIN HIGHWAY
- - - PROJECT ROADS SENDRY                                                 e/                                      i
,   ,,    U VIRAILWAYS E
-STAGE I MAIN CANAL           )<v 
*SrAGE  10 MAIN CANAL I I I  AN
--  AJOR CANAL                                                <q1                                w
j ----- ~~~~MAJOR DRAIN ) 
, C=tz== ~~~~~RIVERS/, 7-
G      EXISTING SUBSTATION                        /    O                                                                !
EXISTING TRANSMIISSION LINES
_      B RIDGEXISTING 1-SU
STAGE I ROSEIRES/RAHAD SLIPPLY CANAL
a        to       20       30        40                                                 0
KILOMETERS
33 30-                                         39 00-                                      34 30-



