CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 364 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rahad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 30, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 364 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rahad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 30, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1973, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS, (A) The Borrower has requested the Association, the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) and
the United States Agency for International Development (hereinafter called USAID)
to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   The Kuwait Fund has agreed for the purpose to make available to
the Borrower for the same Project a loan in the principal amount of three million
three hundred thousand Kuwait dinar (KD3,300,000) equivalent at present parity
rate as near as possible to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000);
(C)   USAID has agreed to participate in the financing of Parts D and E
of the Project by making available a loan in the principal amount of eleven million
dollars ($11,000,000);
WHEREAS the Associat'In has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development crc.it to the Borrower upon terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "the Corporation" means the Rahad Corporation duly established
under the Rahad Corporation Act 1972 (Act No. 35-1972) as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(b)   "the Act" means the Rahad Corporation Act 1972 providing for the
establishment of the Corporation.
(c)   "The Kuwait Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be dated
between the Kuwait Fund and the Borrower for the
Project.
(d)   "The USAID Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
February 26, 1973 between USAID and the Borrower for the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Assoiation shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank


﻿5
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1983, and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kligdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to b. carried out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural,
engineering, economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the implementation of works
described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended
by Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall
employ, or cause to be employed, engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or
cause to be employed, contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; provided however, that the Borrower
may carry out Parts A(ii), A(iv), H and I of the Project by force account.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate.
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, the insurance of
machinery and equipment, required in the carrying out of the Project against such
risks an(d1 in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all necessary action to
(i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and send to the Association
for its comments not later than December 31, 1973 or such other date as the
Association may determine a program for the construction of schools in the
settlement area referred to in Part H of the Project, and (ii) promptly after receipt


﻿7
of the Association's comments take such measures as may be necessary for the
implementation of said program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and send to the Association
for its comments not later than December 31, 1975 or such other date as the
Association may determine, a program for the control and treatment of bilharzia
and malaria in the area of the Project, and (ii) promptly after the receipt of the
Association's comments take such measures as may be necessary for the
implementation of the program.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part A(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that (a) the optimum type and size of pumps are selected by consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 to this Agreement and (b) the design of the pump
station is mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure that the list of equipment to be
purchased under Parts D and E of the Project shall be as se forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Associatior., the Borrower and the Corporation.
Section 3.12. In carrying out the force account work under the Project,
the Borrower (i) shall not expand the Ministry of Irrigation's permanent labor force,
other than professional and technical staff; and (ii) shall acquire and maintain an
adequate supply of spare parts for all equipment to be used for the purpose.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the date
of this Agreement or such other date as the Association may allow, send to the
Association for its approval the terms of reference of the feasibility study referred
to as Part K of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall on-lend
part of the proceeds of the credit not exceeding $1,500,000 to its Central Electricity
and Water Corporation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿8
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair all facilities, plant equipment and machinery under the Project, or cause
the Corporation to do the same and to carry out all other activities and operations
specified under the Act in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, under the supervision of competent and
experienced management; and
(b)   provide promptly as needed all funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for these purposes.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the appointments of the
Managing Director of the Corporation as well as Managers for Agriculture and
Administration, one of whom shall be the Deputy Managing Director, shall be made
after consultation with the Association;
(b)   the appointments of essential personnel of the Corporation, namely
three group inspectors, a senior agricultural engineer and the chief processing
engineer, together with supporting staff are completed by December 31, 1973;
(c)   the Corporation shall, arrange for (i) at least nine block inspectors
to be trained during a full crop cyrcl in the Sudan Gezira Board or in other irrigation
schemes before they are assigned responsibility for particular blocks included in
the Project, (ii) in-service training including field trips to Gezira and other suitable
schemes to be given to junior and field insepctors who will assist in carrying out
the Project, and (iii) all fieldmen (samads) to be employed on the Project to attend
courses of instruction lasting not less than two weeks, and courses to be arranged
by the Corporation; and
(d)   the said block inspectors would be appointed at least 15 months before
settlement of the particular blocks to which they would be assigned, and said junior
and field inspectors would be appointed no later than October of each year.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to conduct a study
on the location of ginneries in relation to electrical supplies, roads and railways
and the development of the area served by the Project and its potential extensions
including recommendations on the optimurv siting and sufficiency of the storage
facilities included in the Project, and transmit the results of said study to the
Association for its approval not later than six months from the date of this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to:


﻿9
(a)   use a form   of tenancy agreement satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   ensure that the tenants are settled in villages sited to the extent
practicable not more than 5 Km from their holdings.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree the Borrower
shall cause the Corporation to grant leases for an area of not less than six contiguous
plots totaling twenty-four feddans to tcnants growing rotation crops, and for an
area of not less than five feddans to tenants growing vegetables and fruits.
Section 4.07. Beginning with the fcurth crop year after settlement of each
block of the area served by the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to collect an annual land and water charge from the tenants within the said block
of initially at least Sudanese pounds 4 00 per feddan, rising to at least Sudanese
pounds 7.00 per feddan by the seventh crop year after settlement, provided that
the said charges shall be reviewed by the Borrower, the Corporation and the
Association at least once every five years to ensure that they are adequate to provide
not less than a 3% rate of return on the Borrower's total investment in the Project
(other than for Parts C and K) after meeting all annual expenses.
:'ection 4.08. The Borrower shall causC the Corporation to maintain records
adequa    to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practice, its operations and financial condition. To that end the Borrower shall
ensure that the Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association: (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such det-1 as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(C) such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Corporation and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to publish its annual
report complete with all relevant statistical data not later than six months after
each financial year.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practice.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of paymnts,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower shall have failed to carry out any obligation under the
USAID Loan Agreement or the Kuwait Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Rahad Corporation Act 1972, Act No. 35-1972 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the Corporation to fulfill its functions.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿12
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the Kuwait Loan Agreement has, or will concurrently with this
Agreement, become fully effective;
(b)   the USAID   Loan Agreement has, or will concurrently with this
agreement, become fully effective;
(c)   a Managing Director and the two Managers of the Corporation referred
to in Section 4.03(b), of this Agreement shall have been appointed.
Section 8.02. The date July 2, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04(c), 4.02,
4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08 and 4.09 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Planning
The Democratic Republic of
the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ K. A. Dawood
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President, Eastern Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
I.   Large Civil Works
Construction
Contracts
(a)  Pumps, pumphouse,              7,360,000    )
Rahad barrage and                           )
supply canal struc-                         )
tures                                       )
(b)   Building (Head-               6,600,000    )
quarters and                                )
groups), water                              )
supply, spur road                           )    56% of total
and bridge, elec-                           )    expenditures
tric distribution                           )
lines, hospitals                            )
and clinics                                 )
(c)   Ginneries                     2,920,000    )
(d)  Sub-stations and               1,320,000    )
transmission lines                          )
II.  Small Civil Works
Construction
Contracts
(a)   Building for blocks           1,360,.      )
and pumphouse colony                        )
(b)   Light railway                   500,000    )
)    40% of total
(c)   Settlement water                140,000    )     expenditures
supplies                                    )
(d)  Warehouses in                     80,000    )
Project Area and                            )
Port Sudan                                  )


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
III. Materials Contracts
(a)   Materials for irri-             360,000           80% of foreign
gation distribution                               expenditures for
system                                            direct imports or
56% of total
expenditures for
locally manufactu-
red materials
(b)   Chemicals for public           1,880,000         80% of foreign
health and materials                              expenditures
for warehouses and
village water supply,
including motors and
pumps
IV. Equipment and Vehicle
Contracts
(a)   Equipment and                  2,900,000    )
materials for light                         )
railway                                     )
(b)   Construction Equip-             220,000     )
ment and vehicles                           )
for Ministry of                             )
Irrigation                                  )
)     80% of foreign
(c)   Equipment and vehicles         3,440,000    )    expenditures
for Corporation and                         )
public health                               )
(d)   Communications equip-           460,000     )
ment and siphons                            )
V.   Consultants' Services
(a)   Rahad Project                  2,000,000    )
)     80% of foreign
(b)   Feasibility study               540,000     )    expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                         9,920,000
TOTAL              42,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower.
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category V on account of expenditures
incurred after March 15, 1972.
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures tinder any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above            *
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿17
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of irrigated agriculture on a net area of about
300,000 feddans on the east bank of the Rahad river using water pumped from
the Blue Nile. The Project would include construction of all irrigation supply,
distribution and drainage works; installation of agricultural processing equipment
and storage facilities; and settlement of some 13,700 tenant families with all the
necessary infrastructure and supporting services. The Project would consist of the
following major parts:
A.    Construction of irrigation and drainage works comprising:
(i)         a 105 m3/sec electrically powered pumping station at Meina on
the Blue Nile about 200 km downstream from Roseires dam;
(ii)        a supply canal about 84 km long, carrying water from Meina
to an out-fall on the Rahad river;
(iii)       structures along the supply canal and a barrage and head
regulator on the Rahad, about 6 km downstream of the supply
canal outfall; and
(iv)        an irrigation distribution and drainage system supplying, about
300,000 feddans, suitable for eventual conversion to long-furrow
irrigation.
B.    Construction of headquarters, offices and staff houses with the necessary
utilities, and roads:
C.    Construction of transmission lines by the Central Electricity and Water
Corporation:
(i)         across the Blue Nile to the pumping station at Meina supplied
by a sub-station at Singla;
(ii)        from a sub-station south of Wad Medani to project headquarters
and the ginneries;
D.    Procurement of construction equipment and vehicles for the Ministry of
Irrigation:


﻿19
E.    Procurement of agricultural equipment and vehicles for the Corporation:
F.    Construction of transportation, storage and processing facilities for the
Corporation including ginneries, decorticators, warehouses in the Project Area
and at Port Sudan, and a light railway:
G.    Provision  of public health    facilities and vehicles for settlers' villages
comprising village water supplies, a central hospital, three health centers, three
public health offices, fifteen dispensaries and an initial supply of chemicals
and equipment for bilharzia and malaria control:
H.    Agricultural development and settlement of the area over three years
including bush clearance and land levelling:
1.    Development of seed production and research farms:
J.    Provision of consultant services for the irrigation system and associated works;
and
K.    Preparation of a feasibility study by consultants for a second phase, including
studies of the optimum use of the remaining Roseires Reservoir storage
waters.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further            -
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association


﻿21
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
4.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Borrower's country if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Borrower's country of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid
price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Borrower's country.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
5.    For goods included in Category 111(a) of the table set out in paragraph I
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by the
Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding


﻿22
to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic
Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the
smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii)
15%  of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
6.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                Preference
I.               All Preferred Domestic Bids and             None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,         Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with             Preference
all Foreign Bids;                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid unde- Stage I,         None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid,
with all Foreign Bids.
III.             If lowest evaluated bid under Stage         None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage I, all Foreign Bids.
7.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
8.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement the
Borrower may use its usual procurement procedures for purchase of sluice gates
and hydraulic control equipment for the main canal and distribution system.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Equipment and Vehicles
A.   Construction Equipment and Vehicles
Type of Vehicle                                          No. of Units
*    4-wd Station wagon                                              6
4-wd Pick-up                                                   40
5-ton Truck                                                    50
3-ton Truck                                                    15
7-ton Tipper                                                   10
1,000-gal. Tanker                                              25
50-60 Truck                                                     5
*    65-75 hp Tractors                                               6
Doomers                                                         5
7-ton crane                                                     2
Type of Equipment                                        No. of Units
380-hp Tractor w/blades, rippers                               10
(power control unit)
200-hp Tractor w/blades (power control unit)                   20
Concrete mixer                                                 30
Vibrator                                                       30
Steel bending machine                                           4
Steel cutting saw                                               4
Backhoe                                                         4
Front end loader                                                3
Mobile workshop                                                 3
Drawing office and survey equipment
*    Carry all Scrapers                                              5
*    Generating Sets                                                 4
B.   Agricultural Equipment and Vehicles
I.   Agricultural Equipment
Farm Equipment                                           No. of Units
*    65-75 hp tractors                                             345
*    Four row planters                                             350
*    Five bottom ridgers                                           280
*    Disc plows                                                     65
*    Disc Harrows                                                   58
*    Ditchers                                                       16
Groundnut combines                                            156
Groundnut digger-shakers                                      156
*    Cotton stalk cutters                                          234
*    Land planes                                                    24
*    Border Disc Plows                                              18


﻿24
Transport of Material                                        No. of Units
Tipping trailers                                                 13
Trailers                                                         10
1500-gallon fuel tankers                                         10
1500-gallon water tankers                                        10
Blading and Deep Ploughing                                  No. of Units
250-hp crawler tractors                                           5
Heavy plows                                                       5
Nutgrass blades                                                   5
Maintenance Equipment                                        No. of Units
250-hp crawler tractors                                           4
Ditchers                                                          4
Motor graders                                                     9
Scraper blades                                                   24
Mobile workshops                                                  8
Land Levelling                                               No. of Units
Motor graders                                                     3
Offset disc harrows                                              20
Land planes                                                      28
Mobile workshop                                                   3
1500-gallon water tanker                                          3
1500-gallon fuel tankers                                          3
5-ton trailers                                                    3
*    Cross ridgers                                                     30
*    65-75 hp tractors                                                 54
Crop Protection                                              No. of Units
*    Sprayer attachments                                               15
*    Hand sprayers                                                  1,000
II.  Agricultural Vehicles
Project Headquarters                                         No. of Units
*    4-wd station wagons                                                6
5-wd pickups                                                      3
5-ton lorries                                                     3
Group and Block Headquarters                                No. of Units
*    4-wd station wagons                                                3
4-wd pickups                                                     57
5-ton lorries                                                    15


﻿25
Levelling and Land Smoothing                               No. of Units
* 4-wd station wagons 1
4-wd pickups                                                    7
5-ton lorries                                                   2
Ginneries and Decorticators                               No. of Units
*    4-wd station wagons                                             I
4-wd pickups                                                    7
5-ton lorries                                                   3
Research Station and Seed Propagation                       No. of Units
*    4-wd station wagons                                             2
4-wd pickups                                                    6
5-ton lorries                                                  2)
Main Workshop                                              No. of Units
*    4-wd station wagons
4-wd pickups                                                    2
5-ton lorries                                                   3
TOTALS
*    4-wd station wagons                                            14
4-wd pickups                                                   82
5-ton lorries                                                  28
*    Motor Cycles                                                   62
124
* To be jointly financed by the Association and the Kuwait Fund.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 5
Consultants' Services
Scope of the Work
1.   The work of the consultants would have three levels of responsibility
depending on the class of work. Category "A" level would mean full responsibility
for design, contract documents and construction supervision. Category "B" level
would mean reviewing and proposing any necessary changes in designs and
documents prepared by the Borrower and recommending changes if necessary, as
well as assisting in construction supervision. Category "C" level would mean giving
advice as requested on any part of the project. All categories would include checking
and certifying monthly contract payments.
2.   The following works would be in Category "A":
The pumping station complete with pumps and electric power supply
with the expectation of transmission lines and sub-stations to be
constructed by CEWC.
-    The supply canal structures, including Dinder siphon and outfall into  -
the Rahad.
-    The Rahad barrage and head regulator.
-     Light Railway.
-    The ginneries (a turn key contract).
-     Spur road and bridge over Rahad.
-    Bridges over Dinder and Rahad in south of project.
-    Buildings, at Project and Group Headquarters, complete with water
supply and electric power.
-     Equipment - communications, siphons, decorticators.
-    Material contracts for irrigation distribution, warehouses, village water
supplies and molluscicide chemicals.


﻿27
- Equipment and vehicles for construction and agriculture.
The following works would be in Category "B":
The supply canal earthworks.
- The main canal earthworks.
The following works would be in Category "C":
Irrigation distribution and drainage systems.
Buildings other than those in Category "A".
Internal roads and bridges.
- Local construction contracts.
Land settlement.
Responsibilities of the Cowsultant
3.    For works in Category "A" the consultant would:
(a)   Make a study of the most economic efficient size and number of units
for the pumping station.
(b)   Undertake a review of existing site surveys and request any additional
work necessary.
(c)   Undertake site investigations and arrange bore holes as required for
proper foundation design.
(d)   Analyze all existing hydrological data and request more, if necessary,
so as to properly design the hydraulic structures.
(e)   Prepare  to   the  extent   necessary  detailed  designs, drawings,
specifications and contract documents suitable for ICB, including bills
of quantities and estimates.
(f)   Evaluate bids and recommend awards of contract.


﻿28
(g)   Arrange the site testing of contractors' materials and classification of
suitable aggregates.
(h)   Check lines and levels of the works.
(i)   Provide site supervision of the construction to ensure the timely
completion of the works to the quality required in the contract
documents.
(j)   Measure the progress of the works on a monthly basis and certify
contractors' payments, including final payments and completion
certificates.
(k)   Prepare manuals for operation and maintenance of the major structures
and provide the client with ten copies of each.
(1)   Approve any temporary works prepared by the contractors.
(m)   Prepare as built drawings on completion of the works.
4.    For works in Category "B" the consultant would:
(a)   Review all site surveys, investigations and boring logs and request more
if necessary.
(b)   Review and propose any necessary changes to the hydraulic calculations
for the supply canal and the main canal. In addition, carry out a
computer check on the optimum location of the supply canal.
(c)   Review construction schedules and advice on work methods.
(d)   Certify  the monthly   progress of the work, check and      certify
measurements on contract work.
5.    For work in Category "C" the consultant would:
(a)   Advise when requested on design of structures, canals and drainage
works. Particular attention should be paid to making sufficient
allowance for the drainage of a future Stage 2.
(b)   Check   and  certify  progress of works and     check  and  certify
measurements on any contract works.


