CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 364-2 SU
(Supplemental)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rahad Irrigation Project)
DATED MARCH 30, 1973
BETWEEN
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 11, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 364-2 SU
(Supplemental)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rahad Irrigation Project)
DATED MARCH 30, 1973
BETWEEN
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 11, 1975


﻿AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 11, 1975, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and the Association have executed and
delivered a development credit agreement (Rahad Irrigation Project) dated
March 30, 1973 (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), the
Borrower and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called
the Kuwait Fund) have executed and delivered a loan agreement dated April 17,
1973, (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Agreement), and the Borrower and the
United States Agency for International Development (hereinafter called USAID)
have executed and delivered a loan agreement dated February 26, 1973, all for
the purpose of assisting in financing the project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to extend the Association's
financial assistance under the Development Credit Agreement to finance part of
the increased costs expected to be incurred in carrying out the Project and, for
that purpose, to amend the Development Credit Agreement;
(C)  The Borrower has requested the Kuwait Fund to make available an
additional loan under an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Amending
Agreement) in an amount of Kuwaiti dinar equivalent to thirty-nine million dollars
($39,000,000) to finance part of the increased costs expected to be incurred in
carrying out the Project;
(D)  The Borrower has requested the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund) to make available a loan under
an agreement (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Agreement) in an amount of
Kuwaiti dinar equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) to finance part of
the costs expected to be incurred in carrying out Part F of the Project;
(E)   The Borrower has requested the Saudi Fund for Development
(hereinafter called the Saudi Fund) to make available a loan under an agreement
(hereinafter called the Saudi Fund Agreement) in an amount of Saudi riyals
equivalent to twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000) to finance part of the
increased costs expected to be incurred in carrying out the Project; and


﻿4
(F)  The Association has agreed to such request Upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.0 1. Wherever used in this Amending Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969,
or in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Executive Director" means the office of the project executive
director established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 136 of 1975; and
(b)   "Rahad Project Coordination and Follow-up Committee" means the
committee established by Presidential Decree No. 136 of 1975 for the purpose
of coordinating the plans and programs to be executed by the Borrower's Ministries
and Public Corporations involved in the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE II
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 2.01. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million dollars
($62,000,000)."
Section 2.02. Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980, or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date."


﻿5
Section 2.03. Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and send to the Association for its
comments by December 31, 1975, or such other date as the Association
may determine, a program for the construction of schools in the settlement
area referred to in Part H of the Project, and (ii) promptly after receipt
of the Association's comments, take such measures as may be necessary for
the implementation of said program."
Section 2.04. Section 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement is deleted
in its entirety.
Section 2.05. Sections 3.12 and 3.13 of the Development Credit Agreement
are hereby renumbered as Sections 3.11 and 3.12, respectively.
Section 2.06. Section 3.12 of the Development Credit Agreement, as
renumbered, is amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement, or such other date as the Association may determine, send to
the Association for its approval the terms of reference of the feasibility study
referred to in Part L of the Project."
Section 2.07. Section 3.13 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 3.13. The Borrower shall furnish the Association, by
December 31, 1975, or such other date as the Association may determine.
with a draft program for the overseas training of the technical and managerial
staff of the Project, and shall carry out such program as approved by the
Association."
Section 2.08. Section 3.14 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the position of
Project Executive Director is at all times filled by a qualified and experienced
person. Before any appointment is made to said position, the Borrower shall
inform the Association of the name, qualifications and experience of the
person being considered for appointment to such position and afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on the qualifications and experience of such person.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Executive Director
is assisted by an adequate number of qualified and experienced persons."
Section 2.09. Section 3.15 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 3.15. The Borrower shall furnish the Association, upon receipt
of the results of the consultants' study of cropping patterns and water
requirements included in Part L of the Project, with an analysis of the
feasibility of adopting earlier planting in the Project and shall consult with
the Association before taking a decision on this matter."
Section 2.10. Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall on-lend
part of the proceeds of the credit not exceeding the equivalent of six million
two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($6,250,000) to its Public Electricity
and Water Corporation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association."
Section 2.11. Section 4.07 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"Section 4.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, beginning with the fourth crop year after settlement of each
Block of the area served by the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Corporation to collect an annual land and water charge from the tenants
within the said Block of initially at least Sudanese pounds 4.00 per feddan,
rising to at least Sudanese pounds 7.00 per feddan by the seventh crop year
after settlement, provided that the said charges shall be reviewed by the
Borrower, the Corporation and the Association at least once every five years
to ensure that they are adequate to provide not less than a 3% rate of return
on the Borrower's total investment in the Project (other than for Parts C
and L) after meeting all annual expenses."
Section 2.12. Section 4.11 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 4.11. (a) The Borrower shall make water available for
irrigation purposes on the Project Area in such amounts and at such times
as shall be required for the efficient implementation of the Project.


﻿7
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall not be under the obligation to use water stored behind
the Roseires Dam for this purpose during the month of April in each year."
Section 2.13. Section 4.12 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 4.12. The Borrower shall ensure that pre-watering for cotton
and groundnuts shall begin not later than three weeks before the scheduled
starting date for planting in each year, and that post-watering for groundnuts
shall be completed not later than December 31 in each year."
Section 2.14. Section 4.13 is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"Section 4.13. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1975: (i) carry out
on a sample basis such survey and design work as may be necessary for
the introduction of long-furrow irrigation in the Project Area and (ii) as
a result thereof, submit for the approval of the Association the proposed
design, standard of land levelling and the means of implementation for the
introduction of long-furrow irrigation in the Project Area.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all necessary action
to accelerate the introduction of long-furrow irrigation in the Project Area
pursuant to a phasing program to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, which phasing program shall be based upon the design, standard
of land levelling and means of implementation for the introduction of
long-furrow irrigation in the Project Area approved by the Association
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)   In the event that the survey and design work referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section indicates that substantial works shall be required,
the Borrower shall appoint consultants for the design and supervision of the
execution of such works according to terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association."
Section 2.15. Section 7.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall have failed to carry out any obligation under
the USAID Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Fund


﻿8
Amending Agreement, the Arab Fund Agreement or the Saudi FLuInd
Agreement."
Section 2.16. Section 7.02(c) is added to the Development Credit Agreement
and reads as follows:
"(c) Presidential Decree No. 136 of 1975 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the Project Executive Director or the Rahad
Project Coordination and Follow-up Committee to fulfill their respective
functions with regard to the carrying out of the Project."
Section 2.17. Section 7.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
"(b) The events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur."
Section 2.18. Section 9.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 9.01
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Commissioner General
for Planning
National Planning Commission
The Democratic Republic
of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR.
Khartoui
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C."
Section 2.19. Paragraph 1 of Schedule I to the Development Credit
Agreement is replaced by Schedule I to this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.20. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is replaced
by Schedule 2 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.2 1. Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted
in its entirety.
Section 2.22. Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is replaced
by Schedule 3 to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association
showing:
(a)  that the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)   that the Kuwait Fund Amending Agreement has, or will concurrently
with this Amending Agreement, become fully effective;
(c)   that the Arab Fund Agreement has, or will concurrently with this
Amending Agreement, become fully effective; and
(d)   that the Saudi Fund Agreement has, or will concurrently with this
Amending Agreement, become fully effective.
Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel
acceptable to the Association showing:


﻿10
(a)   that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and that the
Development Credit Agreement as amended by this Amending Agreement
constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Kuwait Fund Amending Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and that
the Kuwait Fund Agreement as amended by Kuwait Fund Amending Agreement
constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(c)   that the Arab Fund Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and that the Arab
Fund Agreement constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower in
accordance with its terms; and
(d)   that the Saudi Fund Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and that the Saudi
Fund Agreement constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, this Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Association dispatchs to the Borrower notice of its acccptance of the
evidence required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by October 10, 1975, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Association, after consideration
of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as if this
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Amending Agreement


﻿11
to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first written above.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Dr. Francis Mading Deng
Authorized Representatire
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
0
0


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Large Civil Works
Construction
Contracts
(a)   Pumps, Meina              8,200,000    )
Pumphouse, Ra-                         )
had Barrage,                           )
Dinder Siphon                          )
and related                            )
supply canal                           )
structures                             )
)     40% of total
(b)   Buildings                4,260,000     )     expenditures
(Project Head-                         )
quarters, Group                         )
and Block Head-                        )
quarters)                              )
(c)   Ginneries                 9,350,000    )
(d)   Sub-stations              3,000,000    )
and trans-                             )
mission lines                          )
(2) Small Civil Works
Construction
Con tracts
(a)   Warehouses at              180,000           40% of total
Port Sudan                                   expenditures


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(b)   Decorticator                    70,000     )
buildings                                  )
(c)   Services and                 1,500,000     )     40% of total
utilities for                              )     expenditures
HQ areas (water                            )
supply, irriga-                            )
tion and drain-                            )
age, internal                              )
roads and brid-                            )
ges)                                       )
(3)   Force Account
Construction
(a)   Sub-stations                  150,000      )
and transmis-                              )
sion lines (or                             )
local genera-                              )
tion) for Group                            )
Headquarters                               )
(b)   Services and                 1,350,000     )     40% of total
utilities                                  )     expenditures
(electrical                                )
distribution                               )
and village                                )
water supplies)                            )
(c)   Land levelling              3,000,000      )
(4)   Materials Contracts
(a)   Materials for               2,190,000            80% of foreign
Buildings in-                                    expenditures
cluded in Cate-
gory 1(b)


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(b)   Materials for               1,200,000     )
hydraulic                                 )
structures and                            )
houses of the                             )
Borrower's Min-                           )     50% of foreign
istry of Irri-                            )     expenditures
gation                                    )
(c)   Materials for                  70,000     )
railway bridge                            )
(d)   Chemicals for                630,000      )
public health                             )
(5)   Equipment and
Vehicles Con-
tracts
(a)   Water control                850,000      )
equipment for                             )
supply canal                              )
structures and                            )
irrigation dis-                           )
tribution and                             )
drainage system                           )
(b)   Equipment for                 150,000     )
hospital and                              )
clinics                                   )
(c)   Communications               700,000      )
equipment and                             )     50% of foreign
siphons                                   )     expenditures
(d)   Vehicles and                 750,000      )
equipment for                             )
the Borrower's                            )
Ministry of                               )
Irrigation                                )


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(e)   Vehicles and               700,000    )
equipment for                          )
Rahad Corpora-                         )
tion, public                           )
health and seed                        )
production and                         )
research farm                          )
(6)  Consultants' Services
(a)   For Parts A              1,900,000    )     50% of foreign
through K of                           )    expenditures
the Project                            )
(b)   Feasibility                500,000    )
study under                            )
Part L of the                          )
Project                                )
(7)  Training                         250,000          50% of foreign
expenditures
(8)   Unallocated                  21,050,000
TOTAL        62,000,000


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of irrigated agriculture on a net area of about
300,000 feddans on the east bank of the Rahad River using water pumped from
the Blue Nile. The Project would include construction of all irrigation supply,
distribution and drainage works; installation of agricultural processing equipment
and storage facilities; and settlement of some 13,700 tenant families with all the
necessary infrastructure and supporting services, The Project would consist of the
following major parts:
A.    Construction of irrigation and drainage works comprising:
()         a 105 m3/sec electrically powered pumping station at Meina on
the Blue Nile about 200 km downstream from Roseires Dam;
(ii)        a supply canal about 84 km long, carrying water from Meina
to an out-fall on the Rahad River,
(iii)       structures along the supply canal and a barrage and head
regulator on the Rahad, about 6 km downstream of the supply
canal outfall; and
(iv)        an irrigation distribution and drainage system supplying about
300,000 feddans and suitable for introduction of long-furrow
irrigation pursuant to a program to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
B.    Construction of headquarters, offices and staff houses with the necessary
utilities, and roads.
C.    Construction or extension of the sub-stations at Sennar and Meringan and
construction of transmission lines by the Public Electricity and Water Corporation:
(i)         across the Blue Nile to the pumping station at Meina supplied
by a sub-station at Sennar; and
(ii)       from a sub-station at Meringan to project headquarters and the
ginneries.
D.    Procurement of construction equipment and vehicles for the Ministry of
Irrigation.
0


﻿17
E.    Procurement of agricultural equipment and vehicles for the Corporation.
F.    Construction of transportation, storage and processing facilities for the
Corporation including ginneries, decorticators, warehouses in the Project Area, and
at Hawata and Port Sudan, and a two lane road between the Project Headquarters
at Jebel Fau and Hawata (approximately 100 kilometers) and about 60 kilometers
of access roads and related structures.
G.    Provision of public health facilities for settlers' villages comprising village
water supplies, a central hospital, three health centers, three public health offices,
fifteen dispensaries, vehicles and an initial supply of chemicals and equipment for
bilharzia and malaria control.
H.    Bush clearance, agricultural development and settlement of the area over three
years.
1.    Land levelling for the introduction of long-furrow irrigation in the Project
Area.
J.    Development of seed production and research farms.
K.    Provision of consultant services for the irrigation system and associated works,
ginneries, buildings, sub-stations and transmission lines and for the procurement
of materials, equipment and vehicles.
L.    Preparation of a feasibility study by consultants to determine priorities for
future irrigation and hydroelectric power development and to identify and prepare
for a second phase project, including studies of the optimum use of the remaining
Roseires Reservoir storage waters.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Scope of the Work
1.   The work of the consultants would have three levels of responsibility
depending on the class of work. Category "A" level would mean full responsibility
for design, contract documents and construction supervision. Category "B" level
would mean reviewing and proposing any necessary changes in designs and
documents prepared by the Borrower and recommending changes, if necessary, as
well as assisting in construction supervision. Category "C" level would mean giving
advice as requested on any part of the Project. All categories would include checking
and certifying monthly contract payments.
2.    The following works would be in Category "A":
-     The supply canal structures including:
(i)        The pumping station complete with pumps and electric
power supply;
(ii)       The Dinder Siphon; and
(iii)      The Rahad Barrage and head regulator.
-     The transmission lines and sub-stations for power supply to the
pumping station and Project Headquarters.
-     The project roads system.
-     The ginneries (a turn-key contract).
-     The land levelling for long-furrow irrigation (in the event that survey
and design work indicates that substantial works will be required).
-     Buildings, at Project and Group Headquarters, complete with water
supply, electric power and drainage in township areas.
-     Equipment - communications and siphons.


﻿19
-     Materials supply contracts for irrigation distribution, warehouses,
village water supplies and chemicals for public health purposes.
-     Equipment and vehicles for construction and agriculture.
The following works would be in Category "B":
-     The supply canal earthworks.
-     Review of the cropping patterns and irrigation water requirements for
modified cropping and earlier planting dates for the Project pursuant
to the conclusions of the study referred to in Part L of the Project.
-     The main canal earthworks.
-     Design of minor canals and drainage system.
The following works would be in Category "C":
-     Buildings other than those in Category "A".
-     Internal roads and bridges in Project, Group and Block Headquarters
areas.
-     Local construction contracts other than those in Categories "A" and
"B".
-     Land settlement.
R esponsibilities of the Consultant
3.    For works in Category "A" the consultant shall:
(a)   Make a study of the most economic efficient size and number of units
for the pumping station.
(b)   Undertake a review of existing site surveys and request any additional
work necessary.
(c)   Undertake site investigations and arrange bore holes as required for
proper foundation design.


﻿200
(d)   Analyze all existing hydrological data and request more, if necessary,
so as to properly design the hydraulic structures.
(e)   Prepare  to   the  extent  necessary   detailed  designs, drawings,
specifications and contract documents suitable for international competitive
bidding, including bills of quantities and estimates.
(f)   Evaluate bids and recommend awards of contract.
(g)   Arrange the site testing of contractors' materials and classification of
suitable aggregates.
(h)   Check lines and levels of the works.
(i)   Provide site supervision of the construction to ensure the timely
completion of the works to the quality required in the contract documents.
(j)   Measure the progress of the works on a monthly basis and certify
contractors' payments, including final payments and completion certificates.
(k)   Prepare manuals for operation and maintenance of the major structures
and provide the client with ten copies of each.
(1)   Approve any temporary works prepared by the contractors.
(m)   Prepare as built drawings on completion of the works.
4.    For works in Category "B" the consultant shall:
(a)   Review all site surveys, investigations and boring logs and request more,
if necessary.
(b)   Review and propose any necessary changes to the hydraulic calculations
for the supply canal and the main canal. In addition, they shall carry out a computer
check on the optimum    location of the supply canal.
(c)   Review the design of minor canals and drainage system. Particular
attention should be paid to ensuring that the design of the irrigation distribution
and drainage system permits optimum utilization of' long-furrow irrigation and that
sufficient allowance is made for the drainage of a second phase project.
(d)   Review construction schedules and advise on work methods.


﻿21
(e)   Certify the monthly progress of the work, check and certify
measurements on contract work.
(f)   Study the cropping patterns and water requirements for modified
cropping and earlier planting dates for the project, in the light of the findings
of the study included in Part L of the Project.
5.    For work in Category "C" the consultant would check and certify progress
of works, check and certify measurements on any contract works and provide such
information and services as may be required by the Project Executive Director
for the effective coordination of the Project.


