Report No. 1494 TO                                                             FILE  CaPY
Appraisal of a Rural Development Projeçt in
Cotton Areas Togo
August 26, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise he disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 245
CFAF 100 = us$ o.4o8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 millimeter (mm)  =  0.0394 inches
1 meter       (m)   =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer  (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 hectare    (ha)  =  2.47 acres
1 square
kilometer  (km2) =  0.386 sq. miles
1 kilogram   (kg)  =  2.205 pounds
1 ton        (t)   =  2,205 pounds
1 liter      (1)   =  0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA    =   Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole
CFDT    =   Compagnie Française des Fibres Textiles (France)
FAC     =   Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (France)
FED     =   Fonds Européen de Développement
IBRD    =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IITA    =   International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (Nigeria)
IRAT    =   Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
Cultures Vivrières (France)
IRCT    =   Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et Textiles (France)
IRHO    =   Institut de Recherches sur les Huiles et Oléagineux (France)
MAR         Ministère de l'Aménagement Rural (Ministry of Rural Improvement)
MDR     =   Ministère du Développement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
OPAT    =   Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
SONAPH  =   Société Nationale du Palmier à Huile
SORAD       Société Régionale d'Aménagement et de Développement
SOTOCO  =   Société Togolaise du Coton
SRCC    =   Société pour la Rénovation du Café et du Cacao au Togo
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS             ............................         i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ...................................................              1
Il.    BACKGROUND .........................................                          1
A.    General ....... e.................. ..........................         1
B.    Regional Characteristies  ...............         .......              2
C.    The Institutional Framework ...................                        3
D.    Sectoral Objectives and Strategies ...........                         5
E.    Input Pricing Policy .....            .................... .           5
III.    THE PROJECT * ........................................                        6
A.    The Project Area ......        ................                        6
B.    Project Description ........ . . .          ............. .            7
C.    Detailed Features .............................                        8
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............. s...........                      12
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ..........                        17
A.   Cost Estimates ......................... .......                       17
B.    Proposed Financing ..............*....   .                            18
C.   Procurement ....... .............            ...............           19
D.   Disbursements .................................                        19
E.    Accounts and Audits ..............         .. ............            20
VI.  FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND OUTLOOK ...                                            21
A.    Government Cash Flow ......o...................                       21
B.  Farmers Benefits ..................                                     21
VII.    YIELDS AND OUTPUTS, MARKETS AND PRICES .............                         22
A.    Yields and Outputs .           .................... ....  Ob*         22
B.   Markets and Prices ...............           ,...........              23
VIII.      ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ..................         ...... ......            24
IX.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............                         25
This staff report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. R. Simsolo and O. Honisch (IDA), and T. Vollrath (Consultant), which
visited Togo in October 1976.
This document hs a rtrictd distribution sad may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be dischaed without Worid Bank àuthorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by IDA
2.   SOTOCO
Chart - Project Organization
Table 1 - Balance Sheet and Operating Account
Table 2 - Lama Kara Gin - Operational Account
Table 3 - Marketing Price-Structure
3.   Project Area
Table 1 - Main Physical Data and Crops of Project Area
Chart 16759 - Rainfall Figures for Plateau Region
Chart 16760 - Rainfall Figures for Central, Kara and
Savanna Regions
4.   Farm and Crop Development
Table  1 - Data on Project Farm Models
Chart 16761 - Available and Required Labor on Farm Mlodels in PY 5
Table  2  - Crop Labor Requirements
Table  3a - Crop Production Characteristics - Plateau Region
Table  3b - Farm Budget - Plateau Region
Table  4a - Crop Production Characteristics - Central Region
Table  4b - Farm Budget - Central Region
Table  5a - Crop Production Characteristics - Kara Region
Table 5b - Farin Budget - Kara Region
Table  6a - Crop Production Characteristics - Savanna Region
Table  6b - Farm Budget - Savanna Region
Table  6c - Incremental Returns of Ox-drawn Cultivation -
Savanna Region
Table  7  - Summary of Net Farm Returns
Table  8  - Projections of Farmers, Crop Areas and Production -
Plateau Region
Table  9  - Projections of Farmers, Crop Areas and Production -
Central Region
Table 10 - Projections of Farmers, Crop Areas and Production -
Kara Region
Table 11 - Projections of Farmers, Crop Areas and Production -
Savanna Region
Table 12 - Projections of Farmers, Crop Areas and Production -
All Regions
5.   Ox-drawn Cultivation
6.   Seed Multiplication and Research
Table 1 - Phasing of Seed Production Stages and Seed Requiremen,ts
Table 2 - Seed Utilization in PY 1-10
7.   Seed Cotton Ginning, Transport, Marketing



- 3-
8.   Feeder Roads Program
Table  1 - Equipment List
Table  2 - Calculation of Road Improvement Costs
Table  3 - List of Plateau Region Roads
Table  4 - List of Central Region Roads
Table  5 - List of Kara Region Roads
Table  6 - List of Savanna Region Roads
Table  7 - Road Maintenance
Table  8 - Yearly Building Program and Costs
Table  9 - Summary of Costs
9.   Project Costs
Table  1 - Summary of Project Costs
Table  2 - Investments - Buildings
Table  3 - Investments - Vehicles and Trucks
Table  4 - Investments - Others
Table  5 - Existing Staff and Project Requirements
Table  6 - Project Staff Costs
Table  7 - Operating Expenditure
Table  8 - Vehicle Operating Expenditure
Table  9 - Ox-drawn Cultivation
Table 10 - Field Trials and Seed Multiplication
Table 11 - Training, Monitoring, and Evaluation
Table 12 - Agricultural Input Requirements
Table 13 - Costs of On-Farm Inputs
Table 14 - Operation of Special Account for Procurement of Inputs
Table 15 - SOTOCO Financing Plan
Table 16 - Project Financing Plan
10.   Project Cash Flow
Table 1 - Government Cash Flow
Table 2 - Financial Results of Cotton Marketing
Table 3 - Post-Project Costs
Table 4 - Project Foreign Exchange Income
11.   Markets and Prices
Table 1 - Cotton: Growth Rates of Production
Table 2 - Cotton: Summary of Production and Consumption
Table 3 - Detailed Price Calculation for Cotton - 1977
Table 4 - Price Structure for Cotton
Table 5 - Reference Prices for Food Crops
Table 6 - Price Structure for Maize
Table 7 - Price Structure for Sorghum
Table 8 - Price Structure for Groundnuts



-4-
12.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Benefits and Costs
Table 2 - Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
13.   Schedule of Credit Disbursemnents
14.   Audit Terms of Reference
15.   Draft Terms of Reference for the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit
16.   Reporting Requirements
MAFS
12608 - Administrative Districts with Population Density
12609 - SOTOCO Institutional Infrastructure, Primary Road Network
12610 - Main Soil Groups
12611 - Main Crops and Climatic Zones



TOGO
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Togo has asked for IDA's assistance in financing
the development of agriculture in cotton growing areas. The prime objective
would be to improve and extend production of cotton and food crops. Agricul-
ture has high priority for investment because it employs about 75% of the
active population and accounts for about 30% of both GDP and export earnings.
ii.       The project area would include most of the Savanna, Kara, Central,
and Plateau regions. This area is well suited for cotton and food crop pro-
duction.
iii.      The proposed project, carried out over five years (including the
FAC-financed start-up period), would endeavor to improve living conditions in
the area on a broad scale. Basic infrastructure would be improved by building
new roads, improving and maintaining existing ones, and the drilling of wells
for the supply of drinking water would be ensured. Traditional farming would
be improved by introducing better cultivation methods, including use of oxen,
and promoting higher yields through the use of inputs and improved seeds and
the integration of food crops with cotton into a simple, well-balanced rota-
tion. Some 53,000 farm families -- over 400,000 people -- would be reached
representing about 36% of the expected rural population in the project area in
PY5.
iv.       The project would be executed by a Government agency, SOTOCO.  The
main project features would be:
(a)  strengthening SOTOCO, by providing:  (i) buildings and
equipment for SOTOCO headquarters and field offices,
storage facilities, housing, vehicles and equipment;
and (ii) additional management and field staff, training
and operating expenses;
(b)  establishing a seed-multiplication system including
equipment and vehicles and carrying-out adaptive field
trials;
(c)  providing ox-cultivation training including demonstration
equipment and credit to farmers for acquisition of ox-drawn
equipment;
(d)  supporting project monitoring and evaluation;
(e)  building and improving about 700 km of feeder roads and
providing for their maintenance; and



(f)  providing incremental on-farm inputs to expand improved
cotton planting by 20,000 ha; improved maize by 13,700 ha;
improved sorghum by 7,500 ha; and improved groundnuts by
2,700 ha.
The wells required in the project area would be drilled as priority works
under the ongoing FED Village Wells Project.
Prolect Execution
v.        SOTOCO, the national cotton development agency, has two main fields
of activity: extension work and the primary marketing of cotton. Marketing
activities are paid by OPAT under the price structure (bareme) for which
cotton is bought from SOTOCO. Extension work, including the supply of on-
farm inputs, would be expanded under the project; in PY5 there would be one
extension agent for 75 farmers.  SOTOCO's statutes would be amended to extend
its responsibilties to food-crop cultivation in cotton areas.
vi.       SOTOCO's administrative headquarters are in Atakpame, the capital
of the Plateau region. Under the project organization, there would be four
departments: (a) Technical: responsible for training, production, planning,
extension work, and all field operations; (b) Commercial: responsible for
purchases of seed cotton, transport, and deliveries to the gins; (c) Finan-
cial: responsible for accounting and procurement (including inputs); and,
(d) Civil Engineering: responsible for supervision of feeder roads con-
struction and maintenance. An experienced Togolese has been appointed to
the post of General Manager; the Technical Manager, seconded by CFDT, has
been assigned for three project years. Positions remaining to be filled
comprise the Commercial Manager and Deputy General Manager posts, to be
filled by national recruitment, and the Financial Manager, Civil Engineer,
Chief Mechanic, Head of the Feeder Road Unit, Senior Training Officer (and
his Deputy) posts, to be filled through international recruitment, whenever
necessary in view of the shortage of these skills in Togo.
vii.      To improve SOTOCO's financial status, Government agreed to make
available funds to cover SOTOCO's expenses for HQ staff, extension work,
field trials, seed multiplication, and training operations during 1977.
These payments would amount to CFAF 275 million (US$1.1 million) to SOTOCO:
CFAF 110 million (US$450,000) from OPAT, and CFAF 165 million (US$670,000)
from the Government budget. Moreover, Government would adjust its claim
to CFAF 250 million (US$1 million) shown on SOTOCO's Balance Sheet of
September 30, 1976, as due to Government for inputs supplied in previous
years. Against this amount, only CFAF 50 million (US$0.2 million) remained
to be collected from farmers and can be reimbursed to Government.  The bal-
ance of CFAF 200 million (US$800,000) which was used to finance previous
years' operations would be consolidated into SOTOCO's capital, increasing
it to CFAF 400 million (US$6.1 million). Starting with the 1977/78 campaign,
Government agreed to include in the bareme an additional amount for SOTOCO
to cover its total expenditures, including incremental project costs both
for marketing and extension activities. This arrangement has been devised



- iii -
to ensure SOTOCO a regular income based on cotton production.  It would induce
better management practices, with expenditures being related to income. Gov-
ernment also agreed to make available to SOTOCO, through this procedure or
by direct payments, all funds necessary to SOTOCO during project implementa-
tion.
Project Costs and Financing, Procurement and Disbursement
viii.     Project costs are estimated at US$26 million equivalent (including
US$2.4 million of taxes). The foreign exchange component would be US$15.7
million, or 60% of total costs. Cost estimates are based on mid-1977 prices.
Contingencies amount to 19% of the total project costs.
ix.       An IDA Credit of US$14 million, as proposed, would cover 90% of the
foreign exchange costs (US$15.7 million) or a total of 59% of project costs
net of taxes and duties. The IDA Credit and an FAC grant of US$5.1 million
equivalent, together with Government's contribution of the remaining costs,
would be deployed as follows: (a) CFAF 4,684 million (US$19.2 million) would
be given to SOTOCO as a grant to finance project buildings, vehicles, equip-
ment for field trials, seed multiplication, ox-drawn cultivation, seeds and
sprayers, and to cover the incremental costs of personnel and other operat-
ing expenses; (b) CFAF 771 million (US$3.1 million) would be disbursed into
a special SOTOCO account at CNCA, and used as a revolving fund for the pro-
curement of on-farm inputs; and (c) Government would use CFAF 34 million
(US$0.1 million) to create and operate a Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit. The remaining CFAF 891 million (US$3.6 million) would be unallocated.
The special account (item (b) above) would be financed from: (a) Government,
IDA, and FAC disbursements for incremental inputs; (b) repayments from farm-
ers; and, (c) Government reimbursements to SOTOCO for fertilizer and pesticide
subsidies.
x.        Contracts of US$50,000 or more for the procurement of vehicles
and equipment, including road building machinery (which total about US$5.7
million), and fertilizers and insecticides (about US$12.7 million, of which
incremental cost of US$3.7 million would be financed under the project),
would be made through international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent would be
awarded according to local procedures acceptable to IDA (these are esti-
mated to amount to US$0.3 million). It is estimated that about US$18.0
million would be financed under ICB, including US$9.0 million recurrent
costs of inputs. Contracts with a total value of US$3.1 million, for build-
ings scattered over an area too large to attract international competition,
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Con-
struction and maintenance of feeder roads (about US$3.5 million), for which
no appropriate domestic contractors exist, would be carried out under force
account by SOTOCO, which is being equipped for this purpose. The remaining
costs, for expatriate staff, local personnel, and other operating costs.
would amount to US$9.7 million.



- iv -
xi.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit are expected to be disbursed against
costs incurred over a four-and-a-half-year period. The FAC grant would cover
five years, and would include start-up coats, primarily for salaries of key
personnel and operating expenditure beginning in January 1977 involving dis-
bursements estimated at CFAF 100 million (US$0.4 million). The IDA Credit
and FAC grant would cover 73% of total project costs (IDA 54%, FAC 19%)
and Government would finance the remaining 27%. The IDA Credit, applied
to costs incurred after Credit signature, would be disbursed to cover 56%
of the expenditure for; (a) buildings, furniture, vehicles and equipment for
road building, ox-drawn demonstration equipment, field trials, research and
training (US$4.2 million); (b) incremental staff salaries and operating costs
including costs of the feeder roads unit (US$5.5 million); (c) the project
monitoring and evaluation unit (US$0.1 million); and (d) incremental on-farm
inputs (US$2.3 million). US$1.9 million would be unallocated. Disbursements
against items (a) and (d) would be fully dccumented. Disbursements against
item (b) and (c) would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
certified by SOTOCO and MDR, with the supporting documentation retained by the
executing agency and made available for inspection during the course of
project supervision missions.
Financial and Economic Benefits and Justification
xii.      The Government cash flow for the project shows a positive balance
as early as PY2. All project costs are expected to be recovered by PY4,
with a surplus of CFAF 548 million (US$2.2 million). For the following six
years, revenues to Government from project incremental production would be
expected to steadily increase, from CFAF 711 million (US$2.9 million) in PY5
to CFAF 2,387 million (US$9.7 million) in PYIO, including surpluses accruing
to OPAT, on the basis of the present farmgate price of CFAF 50/kg for seed
cotton.
xiii.     At full production (after 5 years), the project's incremental cot-
ton production would result in yearly foreign exchange earnings amounting
to US$17.9 million, and increase up to US$31.5 million equivalent after
10 years.
xiv.      Present farm incomes are generally low with about 75% of project
participants having per capita incomes less than 1/3 of the national average.
For many families, project participation would be a significant step forward
from an essentially noncash economy to a cash economy, and also would provide
increased food production to augment basic nutrient intakes which are pre-
sently barely adequate in the Kara and Savanna regions. Participating farm
families would increase their incomes progressively over the project period.
At full development the net value of crop production per farm would be in-
creased by 50% from an average of about CFAF 76,000 (US$310) per annum to
CFAF 113,000 (US$460) per annum. Average net cash income would double to
CFAF 64,000 (US$260).  Total per capita incomes (including livestock and
non-farm activities) would increase from an average of about CFAF 20,000
to CFAF 25,000 (US$80 to US$100).



-v-
xv.       Increases in output would be reached by higher yields, achieved
through labor intensive techniques using seasonal inputs in a crop rotation;
and by inducing additional farmers to grow cotton. Yield and crop areas of
mainly four crops -- cotton, maize, groundnuts, and sorghum -- would be
influenced by the project. Fertilizers and insecticides are heavily sub-
sidized by Government to encourage their use; phasing-out of these subsi-
dies should be considered when their use has resulted in better yields and
higher income to the farmers. Moreover, an increase in the producer price
of cotton is necessary to improve the returns per hectare of cotton, thus
to provide adequate incentives to producers; the level of subsidies and the
farmgate price would be reviewed annually with the Association.
xvi.      No difficulties are anticipated in marketing project production.
For cotton and groundnuts, an established export market exists and world
price prospects appear good. Commercialized cereal output would help sub-
stitute for imports, which presently amount to about 20,000 tons per annum.
The economic value of project production has been calculated using reference
prices from the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division. Cotton
and groundnuts are assumed exported, maize and sorghum are assumed to sub-
stitute for imports.
xvii.     The project would have a significant impact upon the welfare of
a large proportion of Togo's generally less developed rural sector. It
would represent a major step towards modern crop husbandry practices and
towards production additional to subsistence requirements. The project's
economic rate of return is estimated at 32% over the 10 year project life.
The rate of return falls to 14% or 17% for a 20% fall in benefits or a 20%
rise in costs respectively. If the rate of farmer acceptance of project
techniques reaches only 70% of the base estimate, the rate of return would
fall to 20%.
xviii.    Risks.  The project would be subject to a variety of risks.  These
include uncertainties regarding yield responses, quality of management and
extension staff, logistic problems involved in transporting inputs and output
and most critical -- the willingness of farmers to adopt project practices.
However, such risks have been reduced by reinforcing SOTOCO's management
and extension services, and training field staff, and would be further re-
duced by a yearly review of the farmgate price of cotton to ensure an ade-
quate return to the grower.
Recommendation
xix.      With the major assurances and conditions outlined in Chapter IX,
the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million.






TOGO
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
I. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Togo has asked for IDA's assistance in financing
the development of agriculture in cotton growing areas. The prime objective
would be to improve and extend production of cotton and food crops. The
proposed project was identified by an RMWA mission in October 1975. The
feasibility study was carried out in November-December 1975 by the French
CFDT with participation of and financing by FAC. An appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. R. Simsolo and 0. Honisch (IDA), and T. Vollrath (Consultant),
visited Togo from October 11 to November 5, 1976; the mission was supported
by Messrs. Tessier-Viennois and O'Sullivan of RMWA. This report is based on
the mission findings.
1.02      The Bank Group has made two credits to Togo for agricultural devel-
opment: Credit 503-TO (US$6.0 million) in 1974 for the improvement of small-
holder cocoa and coffee production; and Credit 638-TO (US$9.5 million) in
1976 for a Rural Development Project in the Maritime Region. Both projects
are progressing satisfactorily.
II. Background
A. General
2.01      Togo is located on the Gulf of uuinea and bounded by Ghana, Benin
and Upper Volta; it covers some 56,000 km . Population is about 2.1 million
and growing at about 2.7% per year. Over 1960-73, Togo experienced one of
the highest growth rates in per capita income in Africa, averaging more
than 4% per year. The sustained growth in Togo's economy through 1970 was
largely due to a vigorous expansion of external commerce spurred by favorable
market conditions for two of the country's principal exports, cocoa and cof-
fee, and by continued development of Togo's position as an important regional
commercial entrepot. In the early 1970's, economic growth slowed down.
Adverse weather conditions, particularly in the period 1971-73, affected
agricultural production; a sizeable reduction in border trade coupled with
a reversal of market conditions for Togo's main exports led to a deteriora-
tion of the balance of payments. From 1971 to 1975, however, the country's
economic development was sustained primarily by the expansion of the indus-
trial and mining sector (and to a lesser extent the service sector) with
the phosphate boom in 1974 triggering a resurgence in economic growth. It
is estimated that per capita income reached US$290 in 1975, although rural
incomes average less than 1/3 of that amount. Togo's longer-term outlook
is favorable with prospects for GDP growth during the next decade of about
6% per year, based on further diversification of the economy and exploitation
of natural resources, and for further improvement in income distribution and
regional development.



-2-
2.02      Agriculture remains the most important sector of the Togolese eco-
nomy, employing about 75% of the active population. It accounts for about
30% of both GDP and export earnings. During the first plan (1966-70) agri-
cultural production in real terms increased by an estimated 3-4% per year.
Over the second plan period (1971-75), the growth rate dropped to less than
1% per year. Growth in the earlier period was triggered primarily by export
crops, and it was the decline in production of these crops that was respon-
sible for the subsequent slowdown. Marketed production of cocoa decreased
by about a third during the period, coffee and palm kernels were down by
about 50% and groundnuts by over 90%. Estimates of food crop production,
which accounts for about 75% of total agricultural production, are partic-
ularly weak. Changes in the data base and the effect of the drought in
the early seventies make comparisons with earlier periods difficult, but it
appears that total food production has not increased substantially since the
mid-1960's. During periods of drought in the early 1970's, increases in food
imports were necessary to remedy shortfalls in domestic production.
2.03      Cotton production ran somewhat counter to the general trend for
export crops. Total production averaged between 9,000-10,000 tons per year
between 1959 and 1967, virtually all of which was an unimproved, low-yielding
Gossypium barbadense.  Then, in 1967, a major campaign was mounted to shift
production to high-yielding Gossypium hirsutum. The campaign was very suc-
cessful in discouraging G. barbadense cultivation, and its production dropped
to about 3,900 tons in the following year. However, the supporting services
were not sufficient to ensure replacement of all the lost production of the
lower yielding type with G. hirsutum, and total production for 1968 fell to
about 5,300 tons. Declines in barbadense production exceeded increases in G.
hirsutum again in 1969 as total production fell further to about 5,000 tons.
Thereafter, G. hirsutum production continued to increase (with G. barbadense
production gradually stabilizing at about 1,000 tons per year), and total
production reached a peak of some 10,800 tons in 1974. Due to the indirect
effects of the late first season rains (which reduced first season food crop
production, thus requiring some replacement of cotton by food crops in the
second season) and delays in the reception and distribution of inputs, 1975
production fell slightly to about 9,800 tons.
B. Regional Characteristics
2.04      The northernxmost Savanna region is characterized by an irregular and
short-duration rain;all pattern (1,100 mm/year). The overall population den-
sity is about 30/km , but while the Oti Valley is virtually empty becaus9 of
onchocerciasis, other parts of the region are overpopulated (up to 90/km ).
Principal crops are millet/sorghum, groundnuts, and recently, rice; the area
has moderate prospects for livestock development.
2.05      The Kara region, a mountainous region, has adequate rainfall
(1,400 mm/year) but low agricultural potential due to overpopulation and ihe
resultant depletion of soZl fertility. Population density averages 53/km
but reaches almost 300/km in some areas, while about one fourth of the
region is unpopulated due to onchocerciasis. Migration to the south, both



-3-
seasonal (about 20% of the adult male population) and permanent, is already
significant and will have to continue if the problems of overpopulation in
the region are to be solved.
2.06 2    The Central region is the least populated region with only about
19/km . Precipitation, which averages about 1,300 mm in a single season, and
generally adequate soils can support crops such as cotton, groundnuts, yams,
maize, and pulses. However, the absence of an easily accessible aquifer to
supply drinking water is a major constraint to settlement and agricultural
development.
2.07      The Plateau region, with average rainfall of 1,200-1,600 mm/ ear
(bi-modal), generally good soils and population density of about 30 km ,
has the best agricultural potential. Cocoa and coffee dominate the wetter,
mountainous area to the west, while the eastern part of the region is suited
for integrated cotton/food crop development and intensive maize cultivation.
2.08      The Maritime Region shares some of the characteristics of each of
the other regions. Rainfall, spread over two seasons, ranges from about 700-
900 mm/year near the coast to 1,000-1,200 mm/year in the north. Development
of the northern third of the region is hindered by the scarcity of drinking
water and the presence of onchocerciasis, while the southeast suffers from  2
depleted soil fertility due to overpopulation with densities reqching 200/km
bringing the regional average rural population density to 90/km , the highest
in the country. Principal crops are maize, cassava, pulses, and groundnuts,
with cotton in the north.
C. The Institutional Framework
2.09      Responsibility for the Agricultural Sector is shared by two min-
istries which replaced the Ministry of Rural Economy in early 1975. The
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) was to be essentially concerned with
policy formulation and program coordination of production activities, and
includes directorates for agricultural research; for agricultural develop-
ment, cooperatives and credit; for livestock; and for training. The Ministry
of Rural Improvement (MAR) was to be concerned primarily with infrastructure
development and support services and includes directorates for rural engi-
neering, pedology, plant protection, veterinary services, police of forestry
and fisheries, and produce inspection. The rural planning unit, which was
created within the Ministry of Rural Economy in 1973 to improve capability
for project preparation, has been transferred to the Ministry of Planning,
leaving no organized structure within the operating ministries to review the
projects and programs proposed by the various agencies for which they are
responsible.  As a first step toward filling this gap, a monitoring and
evaluation unit has been created in MDR under the Maritime Region Project
(Credit 638-TO), and will be expanded under the proposed project (para
4.08).



- 4 -
2.10      The execution of development projects in the sector is generally
entrusted to autonomous public corporations which are either regional or
produet oriented. The five SORADs (Societes Regionales d'Amenagement et de
Developpement) were established in 1966-67 with responsibility for all devel-
opment activities within their region, including extension services, rural
engineering, input supplies, credit distribution, and marketing. However,
they suffered from a lack of clearly defined projects and programs and from
government's requirement that they attempt to be self-financing primarily
through commercial activities - even though their main activities (extension
and training) are of a type that are normally financed from Government bud-
gets. In order to foeus more on production activities, several corporations
were established to deal with the problems of specific export crops, such as
SONAPH for oil palm, SRCC for cocoa and coffee, TOGOFRUIT for fruits and
SOTOCO for cotton (para 4.01). Their responsibilities range from the supply
of inputs and planting materials and the provision of extension services to
primary marketing and processing. I]n many instances, duplication of extension
efforts has resulted from the activities of the specialized agencies and the
SORADS. Government is now considering the regrouping of all extension activ-
ities under a unified service, organized along regional lines, attached to
the MDR. Technical support, training, marketing and processing for specific
crops would still be supplied by the specialized agencies (already reporting
to MDR). The recent recommendation to formalize the SORADs' responsibility
for food crops and to transfer these agencies from MAR to MDR would seem to
be positive steps in this direction. The MAR is expected to concentrate on
rural engineering and infrastructure activities.
2.11      Agricultural credit is thes responsibility of the National Bank for
Agricultural Credit, CNCA, which has channelled most of its credits to far-
mers through the specialized corporations or the SORADs. CNCA has begun to
implement organizational and administrative reforms prepared under IDA Credit
503-TO, which improved operations considerably, and stopped non-agricultural
lending. Direct arrangements with farmer groups, being successfully tested
under the cocoa-coffee project (Credit 503-TO) and encouraged under the Mari-
time Region Project (Credit 638-TO), are expected to improve loan recovery.
2.12      The Ministry of Trade supervises the two marketing bodies:  OPAT,
responsible for coffee, cocoa, cotton, and palm kernels; and TOGOGRAIN, for
food crops. OPAT's producer price stabilization program for export crops
allowed sizeable profit margins (Annex 11, Table 3) which have been used
to finance general development, but only some 6% has been reinvested in
agriculture. TOGOGRAIN intends to play a stabilizing role for food crops
by timely interventions in the market; it has built six silos with a total
capacity of 7,000 tons but, due to poor crops during 1975 and 1976, its
purchases have been limited and it has not yet had much impact on the market.
2.13      Agricultural research is carried out by French commodity-oriented
institutes such as IRAT for food crops, IRCT for fiber crops, IFCC for cocoa
and coffee and IRHO for oil crops. Soil studies, classification, mapping
and analytical work are done by ORSTOM. Government recently created a mul-
tidisciplinary research institute, Institut Polyvalent de Recherches (IPR),
which should eventually become responsible for overall research coordination,
basic research, and laboratory services.



D. Sectoral Objectives and Strategies
2.14       The third development plan (1976-80) has several major objectives.
For industrial crops, Government wishes to revitalize traditional export
crops, and to diversify into new products.   A major program for coffee and
cocoa, which account for about 90% of agricultural exports, was initiated
in 1974 with IDA assistance (Credit 503-TO) and should begin yielding results
by the end of the decade.  A five-year program for increased cotton and food-
crop production is the subject of this report. Other possibilities, includ-
ing oil palm, sugar cane, tobacco and cashew nuts, are being studied by Gov-
ernment. For food supply in general, Government plans to reduce imports and
reach self-sufficiency. This objective however could only be obtained with an
effective marketing system and an adequate extension effort. The following
shifts in production are expected: increases of traditional food grains,
such as maize, millet and sorghum; decreases of yams and cassava (because
of changes in urban demand patterns); increases of pulses and groundnuts;
and a doubling of rice production. Expansion of cropped areas is expected to
come primarily through double-cropping, intercropping, or decreasing fallow.
In addition, substantial efforts will have to be made to bring new land into
production. Some of this land will be found in onchocerciasis-freed areas;
preparation of projects for these areas is supported under the ongoing IDA-
financed Maritime Region project. As a means of expanding the total culti-
vated area, Government has also embarked on a mechanization program with the
purchase of agricultural tractors and implements (400 units). However, given
Togo's current stage of agricultural development and average farm size, such
a program should be tested against alternative methods of selective mechaniza-
tion, such as the use of power tillers under the Maritime Region Rural Devel-
opment Project, and animal traction as proposed in this report.
E. Input Pricing Policy
2.15       An important element of Government's strategy for improving agri-
cultural production is the encouragement of the use of modern inputs, on
both food and cash crops, by means of subsidies. Farmers are currently
charged only about 50% of the value of insecticides and pay only CFAF 15
(US$0.06) per kilogram of fertilizer, or about 25% of total cost. This policy
is based on the assumption that, because of the Togolese farmers' current
perception of risk, low prices are required to induce farmers to adopt these
modern inputs which are necessary for the improvement of yields and land use.
The use of modern inputs is currently concentrated on cash crops, with for
instance less than 10% of the cultivated areas being fertilized. Out of
6,450 tons of fertilizer imported in 1976, some 2,200 tons were for cotton
and another 1,700 tons for perennial crops (coffee and cocoa), while vir-
tually all insecticides were used on either cotton or cocoa. This concen-
tration is likely to increase as input requirements for cotton alone would
more than triple in the next five years under the proposed project. The costs
of input subsidies for these crops are more than compensated by the high tax-
ation implicit in the setting of producer prices well below world market
prices. For example, the actual farmgate price for cotton in 1976/77 was
CFAF 50/Kg. Government revenues, in the form of export taxes and OPAT surplus,



-6-
were expected to total CFAF 95/kg (Annex 2, Table 3), implying a tax of 66%
on seed cotton at the farmgate. Taking into consideration the cost of sub-
sidies borne by Government, this surplus is reduced to CFAF 80/kg, or a 55%
taxation.  As one of the main reasons the farmgate price has been kept at
such a level, Government has cited its wish that cash crops not become overly
competitive with food crops, of which the country is deficient. Moreover,
Government is bearing the full cost olf extension services.
2.16      Togo's policy is based on an "infant industry" argument for promot-
ing modern agriculture through subsidization of inputs. This argument has
been frequently adopted in West Africa, and since it has more often than not
attained its objectives, there is some justification to retain it in this
case. Potential long-run problems include: (a) possible over-utilization
of the subsidized inputs; (b) logistic and financial burden as the volumes
increase; and (c) because of the difficulty of administering separate pricing
policies, the cross-subsidization of inputs for food crops (from which the
Government derives no revenue) by cash crops, although this effect could
possibly be justified on income distribution grounds. However, in view of
the current level of utilization, these problems must be considered minor,
and Government agrees with IDA that these subsidies should be removed at an
appropriate time, when farmers reach an advanced stage of using modern cul-
tural methods and yields increase sufficiently to cover the increased costs
of inputs. An assurance was obtained that the dialogue between IDA and the
Government on the matter of subsidies, which began during the preparation of
the Maritime Region Rural Development Project, would be continued on an annual
basis. In order to establish the basis for the yearly consultation on both
producer and on-farm input prices, the Government and the Association have
agreed on the need for a study of the pricing policy. An agriculture sector
mission is scheduled for the spring of 1978.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
3.01      The project would be carried out in the areas with cotton-growing
potential in the Savanna, Kara, Central and Plateau regions (paras 2.04 to
2.07 and Map No. 12608). These areas, at an altitude of 200-500 m, are
ecologically well suited for cotton and food crop production. In the Mari-
time Region, the relatively small area with cotton potential is being cov-
ered by the Rural Development Project financed under Credit 638-TO.
3.02      There are some 140,000 farm families in the project area, cultiva-
ting about 278,000 ha with an average farm size of close to 2 ha. The average
farm family has about eight people, 45% of whom are active. Cultivation is
done mainly by hand; less than 1,500 farms use oxen, and tractor cultivation
is negligible. Cotton is currently grown by over 30,000 farmers, but probably
10,000 or more still plant the low-yielding type Gossypium barbadense, mostly
intercropped with tubers. The high-yielding Gossypium hirsutum, planted in
pure stands, has been successfully introduced in rotation with food crops.
The average cotton area per farm is 0.7 ha in the Plateau region, 0.6 ha in
the Central, 0.3 ha in the Kara, and 0.5 ha in the Savanna. As for cattle,



- 7 -
there are an estimated 200,000 head in the project area, about 80% owned by
settled farmers, the remainder by Peuhls who are traditional herders. The
principal breed is the trypano-tolerant Borgou, which in the north is cross-
bred with the Zebu. The animals are relatively small but can be used for
traction.
3.03      Land in the Plateau and Central regions is owned by the local com-
munity, with individual farmers receiving usufruct rights from village chiefs.
In the Kara and Savanna regions, the tenure system is based on extended family
ownership and inheritance within the family. Leasing of land to migrant farm-
ers is possible in all areas. Generally land tenure is not a problem.
B. Project Description
3.04      The proposed project would be carried out over five years (including
the FAC-financed start-up period) and would endeavor to improve living con-
ditions in the area on a broad scale. Basic infrastructure would be improved,
both for transport and the supply of drinking water, the latter under a
FED-financed project. Traditional farming would be improved by introducing
better cultivation methods, including use of oxen, and promoting higher yields
through the integration of food crops with cotton into a simple, well-balanced
rotation.
3.05      The project would be executed by a Government agency, SOTOCO
(Societe Togolaise du Coton), and would reach some 53,000 farm families --
over 400,000 people -- representing about 36% of the rural population in
the project area in PY 5. The main project features would be:
(a) strengthening SOTOCO, by providing: (i) buildings and
equipment for SOTOCO headquarters and field offices,
storage facilities, housing, vehicles, and equipment;
and (ii) additional management and field staff,
training and operating expenses;
(b) providing ox-cultivation training including demonstration
equipment and credit to farmers for acquisition of ox-
drawn equipment;
(c) establishing a seed-multiplication system including equip-
ment and vehicles and carrying-out adaptive field trials;
(d) supporting project monitoring and evaluation;
(e) building and improving about 700 km of feeder roads and
providing for their maintenance; and
(f)  providing incremental on-farm inputs on seasonal credit
to expand improved cotton planting by 20,000 ha; improved
maize by 13,700 ha; improved sorghum by 7,500 ha; and
improved groundnuts by 2,700 ha.



- 8 -
The wells required in the project area would be drilled as priority works
under an ongoing FED Village Wells Project.
C. Detailed Features
Cotton and Food Crop Development
3.06      The project would provide for the adoption of improved cotton grow-
ing techniques which have proved effective under an earlier SOTOCO program.
These techniques include proper soil preparation, timely planting of improved
seed, fertilization, pest and weed control and, selectively, ox-drawn cultiva-
tion. In 1975, over 18,000 ha were planted to the improved G. hirsutum, but
about 7,000 ha of these were not treated with fertilizer and pesticides be-
cause of late planting and late arrival of inputs. For purposes of project
analysis, the improved cotton area is taken as the mean over 1974-76 --
12,000 ha. In addition, about 13,000 ha were planted to the low-producing
G. barbadense (mostly intercropped, traditional farming with yields below 100
kg seed cotton per ha), offering a good potential for gradual replacement with
G. hirsutum. Improved cotton planting would be expected to increase from
12,000 ha to 32,000 ha, with production from improved plantings to increase
from 7,500 to 28,900 t.
3.07      The recommended variety, Bou (L 299-10), has a yield potential
of over 2,000 kg/ha of seed cotton, a ginning outturn of over 40%, and very
satisfactory fibre characteristics. Breeder and foundation seed would be
supplied by IRCT (para 2.13) with seed for general release multiplied by
selected growers in the Savanna region under SOTOCO's supervision.  A well-
tested fertilizer compound, NPKSB, would be applied at the rate of 150 kg/ha
in the Plateau region and 200 kg/ha elsewhere. In addition, urea (50 kg/ha)
would be applied to improve crop nutrition in the most advanced development
stage. Pest control would be improved over the first two years of the pro-
ject, through provision of battery-operated ULV sprayers. Suitable insec-
ticides would be provided (15-20 1/ha, in six-eight treatments).
3.08      The project would provide technical assistance and inputs to help
farmers raise the productivity of important food crops - maize, sorghum,
groundnuts. Technical assistance would aim at persuading farmers to adopt a
farm system in which food crops, by following cotton in rotation, would
benefit from the residual effect of fertilizers applied to cotton. Extension
efforts would aim at proper soil preparation, optimal timing and method of
planting, correct spacing and plant population, weed control, harvesting and
storage. Selected and tested varieties of improved food crop seeds would be
produced in seed multiplication centers. The maize variety initially would be
the hybrid NH 1, developed in Benin, which has a yield potential of up to 3.5
t/ha, and has been readily accepted by the Togolese population. With a
growing period of 110 days, this variety is well suited to precede cotton in
the bimodal rainfall areas. Breeder's seed would be produced by IRAT (para
2.13) multiplied at SOTOCO seed centers, and the first generation (FA) supplied
to advanced growers starting with PY 3. Intensive maize variety screening is
going on at all IRAT stations in maize areas, and several varieties are
showing good prospects (Annex 4).



- 9 -
3.09      Through testing at IRAT field stations over the past years, several
varieties of sorghum have been identified that are suitable for the project
area, with yield potential of around 3-4 t/ha. Breeder's seed would again be
produced at IRAT stations and multiplied and distributed by SOTOCO. Variety
screening continues.
3.10      Following good progress in groundnut research in recent years, at
least one high-yielding variety is immediately available (RMP 12), a long
season variety yielding over 2.5 t/ha. Trials with shorter season varieties
are going on and in 1979-80 a greater selection should be available. Ground-
nut seed from IRAT stations would be reproduced by the SOTOCO multiplication
center in the Savanna region. First seed for general release would be re-
quired in PY 3. Groundnuts in the advanced development stage would be
fertilized with additional phosphorus.
3.11      Ox-cultivation, currently used only in the northernmost Savanna
region, would be further encouraged under the project through operation of
23 SOTOCO ox demonstration teams in key areas of all regions, coupled with
training on farmers' fields. The objective would be to promote a more rapid
introduction of oxen. In the Savanna region, where farmers can select oxen
from their own herds, medium-term credit for the purchase of ox-drawn equip-
ment would be made available starting with PY 3; it is anticipated that by
PY5 some 350 ox teams would be cultivating about 2,000 ha of land.
Seed Multiplication and Field Trials
3.12      Breeder and foundation seed would be produced by IRCT and IRAT
on their fieLd stations. For this purpose, a contract agreement would be
signed by the two institutes and SOTOCO. The multiplication of registered
and certified seed would be the responsibility of SOTOCO. For this purpose
Government agreed to make available, by September 30, 1977, three "Centres
Polyvalents" to SOTOCO with land, buildings, and stores in suitable locations
which would be managed by SOTOCO and supplied with necessary machinery and
equipment by the project. In these centres seed would be graded, treated,
bagged and labelled, and then released to farmers. The project would finance
seven IRAT and seven IRCT field stations that would essentially do regional
variety screening, basic crop nutrition, plant population, spacing and crop
protection trials. Assurances have been obtained that annual work programs
would be submitted to IDA for review. These field stations would act on one
hand as points of release for demonstration items to be disseminated by SOTOCO
and on the other hand as points of reception for research problems fed back
from rural areas through SOTOCO extension agents. Under SOTOCO's administra-
tion, field trials would be carried out on farmers' fields, with the dual
purpose of verifying IRCT and IRAT research results and serving as demonstra-
tions.  All project financed and supported field trial activities would be
carried out in close consultation with IITA - Ibadan. Arrangements have been
concluded for IITA personnel to visit the project twice a year to give support
to the trials program.
Project Phasing
3.13      Farmers would move through three development stages.  Upon entering
the project, farmers would progress into Stage I, which would consist of use



- 10 -
of improved cotton seeds, good management of cotton, including proper pest
control, but no improvement for food crops. Stage II would include in addi-
tion to measures taken at Stage I appropriate fertilizer applications to
cotton, with traditional food crops planted at recommended spacing following
cotton, thus receiving residual benefits from cotton fertilization. To give
farmers enough time to master the labor-consuming combination of fertilizer
application and pest control and to safeguard against possible delays in
adoption rates of new techniques, most farmers would be expected to remain in
Stage II for two years; and only small yield increases would be anticipated
during this period. In Stage III, application of nitrogen fertilizer and
improved food crop varieties would be introduced. An average farmer would
reach Stage III in cotton after four years and full application of recommended
food crop techniques after five years of project participation. The number of
farmers in improved cotton production stages is expected to be as follows:
No. of farmers
Stage I          II           III        Total        Incremental
PY 0               18,800           500           -         19,300           -
PY 1                9,100        13,600            400      23,100          3,800
PY 2                6,400        22,000          1,100      29,500         10,200
PY 3                6,300        15,400         14,000      35,700         16,400
PY 4                8,700        12,600         23,100      44,400         25,100
PY 5                8,900        14,900         29,500      53,300         34,000
Infrastructure
3.14      Roads.  The general lack of feeder roads and the poor maintenance of
existing ones in the project area hinder crop marketing, input delivery, and
the development of less populated areas. A feeder road program prepared by
SOTOCO (which would be essential for the project), covering both equipment and
work, for improvement of about 700 km and the maintenance of these and other
roads during the project period (Annex 8) is included in the project. In view
of the absence of suitable domestic contractors, feeder road construction
would be carried out by force account, as is generally the case in Togo.
Assurances have been obtained that SOTOCO would submit to the Association for
review, the annual work program by the Association and that the roads improved
under this agreement would be adequately maintained after investment by
Government.
3.15      The fact that SOTOCO, an agricultural development agency, would have
to construct the required feeder roads points to the absence of a Governmental
agency with overall responsibility for feeder road construction and mainte-
nance. The result is a proliferation of various feeder road programs carried
out by different bodies. The Association has recently appraised a separate
feeder roads project focussing mostly on organization and maintenance with
the final goal of establishing a centralized efficient agency in this sector.
When this is achieved, SOTOCO's feeder roads department, with its equipment



- il -
and staff, would be transferred to it, with the provision that feeder roads
in the project area would be built within the agency's overall program.
3.16      Wells.  In the project area, water is usually available to vil-
lages during the wet season (March - October), from shallow traditional
wells and povided water, and of an unhealthy quality. During the dry season,
as wells and ponds dry out, considerable hardship is endured by the rural
population. Concurrent with the proposed IDA project, FED intends to fi-
nance a program of village well construction which will cover the priority
needs of the project area. Improvement of village water supplies is not,
therefore, included in the present project. Assurances were obtained from
Government that about 64 wells needed for the project area will be built as a
first priority under the FED-financed Village Wells Program.
3.17      Stora2e.  To ensure safe storage and efficient distribution of
farm inputl, the project would finance the construction of 680 storage sheds
(each 20 m   in main viilages, complemented by 14 stores at the sector level
(each 200 m , with 40 m  office space).  In addition 2there would be four
regi9nal stores and office complexes measuring 400 m each (of which
80 m offices). All these facilities would be owned and operated by SOTOCO.
3.18      Ginning.  The present ginning capacity of three small gins in the
Plateau region in the south of the project area is in the order of 11,000 t
seed cotton per season. Studies have been completed for the extension of one
of these ginneries (Notse) from 3,000 t to 12,000 t, planned for 1979, and for
an additional gin with the capacity of 12,000 t per season in the north (Lama
Kara), which should be completed in 1978. By PY 5, total capacity should attain
32,000 t as compared to the expected production of 30,000 t and assurances have
been obtained that this expansion program would be carried out by Government.
The gins at Lama Kara and Notse would be designed for the installation of an
additional ginning capacity of 7,000 t seed cotton each per season, should
this be required. The extension of ginning capacity would be financed by the
Government, with some outside financing by FAC, mainly for studies and tech-
nical assistance, and would be satisfactory for project purposes (Annex 7).
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      SOTOCO, the national cotton development agency, has been in opera-
tion since March 1974 and has two main fields of activity; extension work
including technical support and the primary marketing of cotton. Extension
work covers cotton cultivation and the growing of food crops associated with
cotton, and includes the preparation and multiplication of improved seeds and
propagation of modern cultural techniques. SOTOCO also procures fertilizers
and pesticides and distributes them to farmers on seasonal credit. The
statutes of SOTOCO restrict its extension work activities to cotton only,
although Government has de facto authorized it to extend such activities to
food-crops cultivated in rotation with cotton. Assurances were obtained



- 12 -
during negotiations that the original SOTOCO statutes would be amended
to have its responsibilities extended t:o foodcrop cultivation in cotton areas.
Primary marketing of cotton is carried out either directly or through existing
cooperatives, and includes buying at village and market level, transport,
handling, and delivery to the gins; SOTOCO is not however at present involved
in ginning but it would be the operator of the new Lama Kara gin (para 4.15).
4.02      Organization.  Under the project, there would be four departments:
(a) Technical, responsible for training, production planning, extension work,
and all field operations; (b) Commercial, responsible for purchasing seed
cotton, transport, and deliveries to the ginneries; (c) Financial, responsible
for accounting and procurement (including inputs), financial analyses, and
communications with banks and OPAT; and, (d) Civil Engineering, responsible
for supervising feeder road construction and maintenance, including prepara-
tion of technical specifications. It would also supervise the Mechanical
Workshop. Senior management would consist of the General Manager, his deputy
(who would be mainly responsible for administration), Technical, Commercial,
and Financial Managers.
4.03      Staffing.  An experienced Togolese has been appointed to the post
of General Manager; the Technical Manager, supplied by CFDT and acceptable
to IDA, has been assigned for three years. An expatriate Financial Manager
and a Togolese Commercial Manager and Deputy General Manager are yet to be
recruited. Other positions to be filled are those of Civil Engineer, Chief
Mechanic, Head of the Feeder Roads Unit and Senior Training Officer and his
Deputy, all of whom would be internationally recruited in view of the present
shortage of these technical skills in Togo. All these senior positions would
be filled by December 31, 1977 by candidates acceptable to IDA; moreover, all
new recruitment for these positions would be among candidates acceptable to
the Association. Assurances to that effect have been obtained during nego-
tiations.
4.04      Field Services.  The project area would be divided into four regions
corresponding to the administrative division of the country. Each region
would have a Regional Manager, residing in the regional capital. The Plateau
region would also have a subregion, headed by an Assistant Regional Manager
at Notse. For the first three years of the project, two Regional Managers
would be seconded from CFDT. They are already in their posts and acceptable
to IDA. The two other posts are filled by competent Togolese; the head of
the Notse subregion is still to be recruited. The regions would continue to
be divided into a total of 14 sectors. Subsectors and extension zones would
increase during project implementation, from 60 to 65 and 465 to 725 respec-
tively. Additional Extension Agents would be recruited from school leavers
in the rural areas and trained by SOTOCO, and candidates for Subsector Chiefs
would be selected among the best Extension Agents. In PY 5, there would be
on average one Extension Agent (EA) for 75 farmers. These farmers would be
expected to grow 45 ha of cotton and a corresponding area of food crops in
rotation with cotton.
4.05      There would be an informal organization of farmers into groups.  The
initial purpose would be planting in blocks to facilitate field operations



- 13 -
such as crop protection and ox-drawn cultivation. Later, these groups would
be expected to progress into grower associations, which would carry collec-
tive responsibility for ordering inputs and repayment of credit and which
would own and operate equipment, such as maize shellers, that would be too
expensive to be purchased by individuals. The project would provide training
to association leaders and reinforce the staff of several cooperatives already
existing near Notse in the Plateau Region.
4.06      Training of extension staff would be essential to achieve project
objectives. The SOTOCO training section, already reasonably well established,
would be further reinforced by manpower and equipment. The section would be
headed by a senior training officer (STO), and a deputy who would be mainly
responsible for training cooperative staff in Notse. In addition, there would
be four regional training officers. Training would be basically divided into:
(a) special training sessions; and (b) continuous on-the-job training of EAs
in the field. The STO would establish close contacts with IRCT, IRAT, and
IITA-Ibadan.
4.07      A mechanical workshop would be set up in Atakpame to maintain and
repair SOTOCO's vehicles. It would also carry out maintenance and small-
repair jobs for the road-building equipment procured for the Feeder Road
Program. This unit would be headed by a Civil Engineer and staffed by
local mechanics under the supervision of an internationally recruited Chief
Mechanic.
4.08      The project would be monitored and evaluated by the Projects Moni-
toring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU), of the MRD which already has monitoring
responsibilities for the IDA-financed Maritime Region Rural Development
Project. It would be headed by a senior officer of this ministry and its
duties expanded by September 30, 1977, to cover this project. An assurance
to that effect has been obtained. The PMEU would operate in close contact
with Project Management and would be mainly responsible for identifying prob-
lems of project implementation and carrying out field surveys and data col-
lection. It would also: (a) review quarterly and annual progress reports
prepared by the project management; and (b) assist in completing project
reporting forms. To aid project monitoring and evaluation, IITA-Ibadan,
through its Farming Systems Program, would have a consultancy role encom-
passing advice on organization, the establishment of objectives, field work
design, and data processing. Draft terms of reference for the PMEU are at
Annex 15.
4.09      Inputs.  SOTOCO supplies farmers with fertilizers and insecticides
at the subsidized price decreed by Government. The cost of these supplies
is collected during cotton marketing, at the end of the season. Under the
project, these inputs would be bought yearly, under ICB procedures. Since
inputs for PY 1 are already in stock, the cost of incremental PY 2 require-
ments, at the import price, would be financed under the project, as would
the additional quantities required for each succeeding year (Table 13,
Annex 9). Procurement of fertilizers and insecticides would be financed
via a special account opened in SOTOCO's name at the CNCA for this purpose.
Government would make a first deposit of CFAF 300 million (US$1.2 million)



- 14 -
to provide operating capital for this special account, and would immediately
reimburse to the account the subsidies on inputs sold to farmers in PY 1.
These payments would enable SOTOCO to immediately order PY 2 inputs. After
distribution of these inputs to farmers, Government would reimburse into
this special account, by September 30 of each year, the value of the sub-
sidy on inputs distributed by SOTOCO between February and May of that year.
Assurances have been obtained from Government to that effect. SOTOCO would
collect the balance from farmers at market time and deposit it to the same
account. This special account would therefore be provided with adequate
funds to enable SOTOCO to place its orders for inputs each year in advance.
Table 14 of Annex 9 shows the operation of this special account during the
project's life. When Government decides to reduce its subsidies, the related
payments to that account would be reduced and the amounts collected from farm-
ers would increase accordingly.
4.10      Marketing credit is arranged by Government through an account of
CNCA.  At the beginning of the marketing season, SOTOCO is allowed to draw
from this account to pay for seed cotton bought. When the product is deliv-
ered to the ginneries, SOTOCO presents an invoice to OPAT, which pays it
into the CNCA account. CNCA charges SOTOCO with interest during this period.
Thirty days is the average delay between SOTOCO drawing funds and OPAT repay-
ing those funds into the account, and the OPAT bareme includes reimbursement
to SOTOCO for financial charges calculated on those 30 days. However, during
the 1975/76 season, OPAT repayments were late, and SOTOCO had to pay financial
charges over and above the total amount reimbursed under the bareme.
4.11      Credit for acquiring equipment for ox-drawn cultivation would be
granted as from PY 3 to those farmers owning oxen and that have been trained
by the demonstration teams of SOTOCO's extension services. The total cost
of the demonstration activities would be financed under the project. In
view of the limited amounts of credits expected to be granted each year
(from CFAF 5 million, US$20,000, increasing to CFAF 19 million, US$77,000,
in PY 5), these would be provided by SOTOCO from its operating funds. Such
credit would be at 10% interest and a seven-year repayment period. If ox-
drawn cultivation develops beyond what is expected under the project, CNCA
would make available such credit to farmers under SOTOCO's control, under the
same terms.
4.12      Finances.  SOTOCO's original equity of CFAF 200 million (US$0.8
million) was invested in fixed assets and operational stocks. Operational
expenditures have averaged CFAF 140 million (US$570,000) a year and have
been partly financed by FAC (to cover expatriate salaries, research, and
a fraction of the extension staff) and by Government. This left an opera-
tional deficit of about CFAF 130 million (US$530,000) as of September 30,
1976. Table 1 of Annex II shows SOTOCO's latest balance sheet and opera-
tional accounts. SOTOCO is paid for its marketing operations under a price
structure (bareme) which includes the farmgate price plus marketing and
transport costs (Annex 2, Table 3). In 1976, SOTOCO's marketing operations,
which would be fully covered by the bareme, showed a shortfall of CFAF 18
million (US$73,000), mainly due to: (a) increases in transport costs; and



- 15 -
(b) OPAT's late repayments, due SOTOCO for cotton collected from the farm-
ers, which have caused SOTOCO to incur financial charges over and above
those included in the bareme (para 4.10).
4.13      Starting with the 1977/78 campaign, Governiment would include
in the bareme an additional amount for SOTOCO to cover its total expenditures,
including incremental project costs, both for marketing and extension activi-
ties. This arrangement has been devised to ensure SOTOCO a regular income
based on cotton production; it would induce efficient and responsible manage-
ment practices, with expenditures being related to income. Government would
also make available to SOTOCO, through this procedure or by direct payments,
all funds necessary to SOTOCO during project implementation. Table 15 of
Annex 9 shows the estimated flow of funds required for each project year.
4.14      To improve SOTOCO's financial status, Government would make available
funds to cover SOTOCO's expenses for HQ staff, extension work, field trials,
seed multiplication, and training operations during 1977. These payments
would amount to CFAF 275 million (US$1.1 million) to SOTOCO: CFAF 110 million
(US$450,000) from OPAT, and CFAF 165 million (US$670,000) from the Government
budget. Moreover, Government would adjust its claim to CFAF 250 million (US$1
million) shown on SOTOCO's Balance Sheet of September 30, 1976, as due Govern-
ment for inputs supplied in previous years. Against this amount, only CFAP 50
million (US$0.2 million) remained to be collected from farmers and can be
reimbursed to Government. The balance of CFAF 200 million (US$800,000) would
be consolidated into SOTOCO's capital, increasing it to CFAF 400 million
(US$6.1 million). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
financial arrangements would be implemented by Government; the payment of
CFAF 275 million (US$1.1 million) to SOTOCO would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.15      At present, OPAT pays the two privately owned gins CFAF 8,500
(US$35) per ton of seed cotton ginned. Such payments would be sufficient to
cover the total operational expenditures of the new Lama Kara ginnery that
is to be operated in 1978 (PY 2) by SOTOCO. The break-even point would be
around 9,000 tons of seed cotton and would be expected to be supplied to the
gin by PY 4 from three regions, Central, Kara, and Savanna, in the immediate
neighborhood. For the first two years of operation, when quantities ginned
would be below 9,000 tons, income would be sufficient to cover cash expendi-
tures, but depreciation provisions would have to be deficit-financed. By
PY 5, the quantity would reach 12,000 tons, or the total capacity of the
gin. Assurances were obtained that SOTOCO would keep separate accounts of
its ginning operations and that the level of payments from OPAT for ginning
cost would be the same as those paid to other gins, presently CFAP 8,500/ton
(US$35). Annex 2, Table 2, shows the expected operational cost of the Lama-
Kara gin, its expected income from ginning operations, and its amortization
account.



- 16 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
5.01      Total project costs are detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below:
Fore.ign
CFAF million             US$ million       ExchanRe
Local Foreign Total      Local Foreign Total       _
I. HQ and Field Services
Buildings                 267    320   587         1.1    1.3      2.4       54
Vehicles and Equipment   238    665   903          1.0    2.7      3.7       73
Salaries                  527    327   854         2.2    1.3      3.5       37
Other Operating
Costs 1/                214    210   424         0.9    0.8      1.7       47
1,246  1,522 2.768        5.2    6.1    11.3        54
II. Ox-drawn Cultivation           35       2    37       0.1      _       0.1       -
III.Field Trials, Seed
Multiplication and Training
Buildings                       7      5    12         -       -       -         -
Equipment                      23     34    57        0.1    0.2      0.3       66
Operating Costs               204    138   342        0.8    0.6      1.4       43
234    177   411        0.9    0.8      1.7       47
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation    16        16    32       0.1    0.1       0.2      50
V.  Feeder Roads Program
Buildings                       9      4    13        0.1             0.1      100
Workshops Equipment             4      8    12         -       -       -
Road Building Equipment        54    153   207        0.2    0.6      0.8       75
Road Construction             214    479   693        0.8    2.0      2.8       71
Salaries                       21     28    49        0.1    0.1      0.2       50
302    672   974        1.2    2.7      3.9       69
VI. Incremental On-Farm Inputs
Seeds and Sprayers            148     70   218        0.6    0.3      0.9       33
Fertilizers and
Insecticides                  72    654   726        0.3    2.7      3.0       90
220    724   944        0.9    3.0      3.9      ,77
TOTAL BASE COSTS           2,053  3,113 5,166         8.4   12.7    21.1        60
Physical Contingencies        121    202   323        0.5    0.8      1.3       62
Price Contingencies          357    534   891         1.4    2.2      3.6      651
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        2,531  3849 6_,380        10.2   15.7    26.0       '50
1/   Marketing expenditure not included.



- 17 -
5.02      Imported vehicles and equipment would be exempted from customs
duties and have been excluded from project costs which total CFAF 6,380 mil-
lion (US$26.0 million) of which CFAF 3,849 million (US$15.7 million), or 60%,
is the estimated foreign cost component. Cost estimates are based on mid-1977
prices, including all identifiable direct taxes amounting to CFAF 583 million
(US$2.4 million), or 9% of total costs, and contain the following contingen-
cies: (a) physical contingencies of 15% on road construction, 10% on build-
ings and road building machinery, and 5% on all other costs, except salaries;
and (b) price contingencies compounded as follows: construction costs, 9%
each in PY 2 and PY 3, and 8% in PY 4 and PY 5; vehicles and equipment 7-1/2Z
each in PY 2 and PY 3, and 7% in PY 4 and PY 5; all remaining costs, 7% for
each year. Total contingencies amount to 19% of the total project costs or
23% of base line cost estimates.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      IDA and the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation (FAC) would,
together with Government, jointly finance the project. FAC has, in the
past, helped Government to finance SOTOCO's ongoing operation, by granting
funds amounting to CFAF 95 million (US$0.4 million) in 1975 and CFAF 175
million (US$0.7 million) in 1976. In addition, FAC has agreed to grant
another CFAF 1,250 million (US$5.1 million) to finance the project proper.
A condition of IDA credit effectiveness would be the effectiveness of the
grant agreement between FAC and Government for CFAF 1,250 million (US$5.1
million).
5.04      The following table summarizes the proposed financing plan (physi-
cal contingencies have been added to base costs):
(US$ million)
IDA      FAC       GOVT      TOTAL
I.   HQ and Field Services                  6.4      2.3        3.2        11.9
II.   Ox-drawn Cultivation
III.   Field Trails, Seed Multipli-  )        1.0      0.4        0.5         1.9
cation and Training           )
IV.   Evaluation and Monitoring              0.1       -         0.1         0.2
V.   Feeder Road Program                    2.4      0.9        1.0         4.3
VI.   On-farm Inputs                         2.2      0.8        1.1         4.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                   12.1       4.4       5.9        22.4
VII.   Unallocated                            1.9      0.7        1.0         3.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                14.0       5.1       6.9        26.0
Percentage                         (54)      (20)      (26)       (100)
Percentage net
of taxes                          (59)      (22)      (19)       (100)



- 18 -
5.05      An IDA Credit of US$14 million, as proposed, would cover 90% of the
foreign exchange costs (US$15.7 million) or a total of 59% of project costs
net of taxes and duties. The IDA Credit and FAC grant, together with Govern-
ment's contribution, would be deployed as follows: (a) CFAF 4,684 million
(US$19.2 million) would be given to SOTOCO as a grant to finance project
buildings, vehicles, equipment for field trials, seed multiplication, ox-
drawn cultivation, seeds and sprayers, and to cover the incremental costs of
personnel and other operating expenses; (b) CFAF 771 million (US$3.1 million)
would be disbursed into a special SOTOCO account at CNCA, and used as a re-
volving fund for the procurement of on-farm inputs; and (c) Government would
use CFAF 34 million (US$0.1 million) to strengthen and expand the Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit presently operating within MDR. The remaining
CFAF 891 million (US$3.6 million) would be unallocated.
5.06      The special account (item (b) above) would be financed from:  (a)
Government, IDA, and FAC disbursements for incremental inputs; (b) repayments
from farmers; and, (c) Government reimbursements to SOTOCO for fertilizer and
pesticide subsidies (para 4.09). Establishment of the revolving fund with an
initial deposit by Government of CFAF 300 million (US$1.2 million) would be a
condition of effectiveness (Table 14 of Annex 9 shows the operation of this
special account).
C. Procurement
5.07      Contracts of US$50,000 or more for the procurement of vehicles and
equipment, including road building machinery (totalling about US$5.7 million),
and fertilizers and insecticides (about US$12.7 million, of which incremen-
tal cost of US$3.7 million would be financed under the project), would be
made through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded accord-
ing to local procedures acceptable to IDA (these are estimated to amount to
US$0.3 million). It is estimated that about US$18.0 million would be financed
under ICB. Contracts with a total value of US$3.1 million, for buildings
scattered over an area too large to attract international competition, would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Construc-
tion and maintenance of feeder roads (about US$3.5 million), for which no
appropriate domestic contractors exist, would be carried out under force
account by SOTOCO, which is being equipped for this purpose. The remaining
costs, for expatriate staff, local personnel, and other operating costs, would
amount to US$9.7 million.
D. Disbursements
5.08      The proceeds of the IDA Credit are expected to be disbursed against
costs incurred over a four-and-a-half-year period. The FAC grant would cover
five years, and would include start-up costs, primarily for salaries of key



- 19 -
personnel and operating expenditure beginning in January 1977 involving dis-
bursements estimated at CFAF 100 million (US$0.4 million). The IDA Credit
and FAC grant would cover 73% of total project costs (IDA 54%, FAC 19%) and
Government would finance the remaining 27%. The IDA Credit, applied to
costs incurred after Credit signature, would be disbursed to cover 56% of
expenditure for:
(a) buildings, furniture, vehicles and equipment for road
building, ox-drawn demonstration equipment, field trials,
research and training (US$4.2 million);
(b) incremental staff salaries and operating costs including
costs of the feeder roads unit (US$5.5 million);
(c) the project monitoring and evaluation unit (US$0.1 million);
and
(d)  incremental on-farm inputs (US$2.3 million).
US$1.9 million would be unallocated. Disbursements against items (a) and (d)
would be fully documented. Disbursements against item (b) and (c) would be
made on the basis of statements certified by SOTOCO and MDR, with the support-
ing documentation retained by the executing agency and made available for
inspection during the course of project supervision missions. A schedule of
estimated disbursements is at Annex 13.
E. Accounts and Audits
5.09      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SOTOCO would
keep separate accounts for the project, in accordance with consistently
maintained and sound accounting practices. These accounts would also show
separately (a) the results of SOTOCO's marketing operations (para 4.10); (b)
of the ginning operation at the Lama Kara ginnery (para 4.15); (c) Govern-
ment's account in SOTOCO's books with regard to its contribution to cover the
shortage between (i) SOTOCO's expenditures for its ongoing operation and ex-
penditure under the project and (ii) the revenues generated from the payment
of a fixed fee on each ton of seed cotton marketed by SOTOCO (para 4.15); and
(d) the operation of the special account for input procurement (para 4.09).
Assurances were obtained that Government would: (a) cause SOTOCO to appoint
independent, qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) submit audited accounts
and the auditors' reports thereon to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year; and, (c) ensure that the reports of the auditors would be of
such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request. Draft terms of
reference on audit requirements are at Annex 14.



- 20 -
VI.  FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND OUTLOOK
A. Government Cash Flow
6.01      The Government cash flow for the project (Annex 10, Table 1) shows
a positive balance as early as PY 2. All project costs are expected to be
recovered by PY 4, with a surplus of CFAF 548 million (US$2.2 million). For
the following six years, revenues to government from project operations would
be expected to steadily increase, from CFAF 711 million (US$2.9 million) in PY
5 to CFAF 2,398 million (US$9.7 million) in PY 10. All these revenues are
calculated on the incremental project production of cotton, and include the
surplus accruing to OPAT on cotton marketing. The Cash Flow, over a period of
10 years net of inputs of outside financing, shows a financial rate of return
of 13% in constant terms.
6.02      The project's incremental cotton production would bring in yearly
foreign exchange earnings amounting to US$17.9 million in current terms by PY
6 (for PY 5 production), and increase up to US$31.5 million in equivalent cur-
rent terms by Year 11 after deduction of project costs in foreign exchange.
Net foreign exchange income would total about US$176 million equivalent for
the 10 year period (Table 4, Annex 10).
B. Farmers Benefits
6.03      Participating farm families would increase their incomes progres-
sively over a 5 year development period. At full farm development the net
value of crop farm production would have increased by 50% from an average of
about CFAF 76,000 (US$310) to CFAF 113,000 (US$460) per annum. Average net
cash income would double from CFAF 32,000 (US$130) to CFAF 64,000 (US$260). 1/
Present farm incomes are generally very low and for many families project
participation would induce a significant step forwards from an essentially
non-cash economy to a cash economy. Increased food crop production in the
Savanna and Kara regions would also provide for an augmentation of basic
nutrient intakes which are presently barely adequate (Annex 4, Tables 5
and 6).
6.04      Average net returns from cotton would increase from about CFAF
12,000 (US$50) to CFAF 39,000 (US$160) per ha. Intercrop comparisons are
potentially misleading in a rotation system where, for instance, residual
effects of fertilizers placed on cotton benefit the following food crops.
lIowever, at the present producer price for cotton of CFAF 48/kg, the returns
are lower than those for cereals for all regions at all stages on a per man
day basis and for all but a few cases in the Plateau and Savanna Region on
a per hectare basis. An increase in the producer price is necessary to ensure
1/   Weighted averages.  Differences by region are considerable - Annex 4,
Table 7.



- 21 -
comparable returns per hectare for cotton in all regions. At the point of
equilibrium on a per hectare basis, the returns per man day would still be
higher for cereals in three of the four regions, due primarily to the higher
cereal prices there. These higher prices reflect the relative shortages of
food in these regions, and can be expected to decline as food production
increases (which is expected as a result of this project), bringing the
returns per man day closer together. During negotiations Government agreed
to review yearly, in consultation with IDA, the farmgate price for seed
cotton with the purpose of maintaining adequate producer incentives.
VII. YIELDS AND OUTPUTS, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Output
7.01     Increases in output would be achieved by increases in yields through
labor intensive techniques using seasonal inputs in a crop rotation, and by
inducing additional farmers to grow cotton. In the main, yields and areas
devoted to four crops would be influenced by the project: cotton, maize,
groundnuts and sorghum. Participating farmers would be expected to improve
their cropping system progressively taking, on the average, about five years
to reach full farm development.  Further details are contained in Annex
4, Tables 3 to 7.  Average yields from traditional practices and at full
development are summarized below:
Average Yield (kg/ha)
Traditional         Full Development         %
Crop Husbandry         Crop Husbandry       Increase
Cotton                          570                   1060               86
Maize                           700                   1800              157
Sorghum                         500                   1300              160
Groundnuts                      400                   1000              150
7.02      It is considered that, with present crop husbandry practices, farm
output in the areas covered by the project has reached a ceiling. Production
from these areas appears to have remained stagnant for a number of years and
without the provision of project extension, credit and input distribution ser-
vices, no increases in production can be expected. In calculating incremental
output it has therefore been assumed that, without the project, production
would remain at present levels. However, farmers starting to grow cotton
for the first time are expected to reduce their cereal and groundnut areas
slightly and this has been taken into account in the projections of crop
area and production levels (Annex 4, Tables 8 to 12). Summary details are
provided below;



- 22 -
Incremental
Production (Tons )
Without Prolect       With Prolect       With ProJect
(All Years)        PY 5    PY 10    PY 5         PY 10
Areas (Ha)
Cotton                          11,700          31,700   31,700       -          -
Maize                           27,900          23,400   23,400       -          -
Sorghum                         38,000          36,000   36,000       -          -
Groundnuts                       4,600           4,200    4,200       -          -
Productions (Tons)
Cotton                           6,700          29,200   33,600      22,500    26,900
Maize                           19,500          25,500   32,800       6,000    13,300
Sorghum                         19,000          21,400   24,500       2,400      5,500
Groundnuts                       1,800           3,300    4,200       1,500      2,400
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      No difficulties are anticipated in marketing project production.
For cotton and groundnuts, an established export market exists and world
price prospects appear good. Commercialized cereal output would help sub-
stitute for imports which presently amount to about 20,000 tons per annum -
wheat, rice and maize - and can be expected to increase without the project.
The economic values of project production have been calculated using refer-
ence prices from the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division.
Cotton and groundnuts are assumed exported, maize and sorghum are assumed
to substitute for imports (Annex 11).
7.04      Producer prices in the farm budgets are based on OPAT official
prices for cotton 1/ and groundnuts and on average rural market prices for
cereals and other food crops. Minor OPAT surpluses would be made on ground-
nuts averaging about CFAF 7,000 (US$28) per ton between PY 1 and 5 and rising
to over CFAF 20,000 (US$80) per ton by PY 10 allowing flexibility for some
upward adjustment of producer groundnut prices. With cotton, the estimated
OPAT surplus in 1977 is CFAF 87,900 (US$359) per ton as compared to the pro-
ducer price of CFAF 50,000 (US$204) per ton (Annex 11, Table 3).
1/   Cotton farmgate price in farm-models is CFAF 48/kg; this has been
increased to CFAF 50/kg after appraisal.



- 23 -
Calculated in 1977 constant terms, the OPAT surplus would decrease to about
CFAF 75,000 (US$300) per ton in the 1980's if the present producer price were
retained, and would yield a total OPAT surplus from project produced cotton
of about CFAF 2.4 billion (US$10.0 million) in PY 5. This is over five times
as large as the total cost of subsidizing all project seasonal inputs in PY 5
and evidently provides Government with no financial constraints against rais-
ing producer prices (para 6.04).
VIII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased output of cot-
ton, maize, sorghum and groundnuts (para 7.02) providing foreign exchange
earnings from exports of cotton and groundnuts and for reduced imports of
foodcrops. At full development the project would be assisting over 50,000
farm families representing about 400,000 persons or nearly 20% of Togo's
population. Rural per capita incomes (including livestock, fisheries, and
non-agricultural income) in the project area average about CFAF 20,000
(US$80). It is estimated that at least 75% of project participants have
incomes at a level of less than one third of the national per capita income
average, thus falling in the target income group. Under the project, the
average per capita incomes of participating families would increase by 25%,
to CFAF 25,000 (US$100) in 1977 terms, at full development, while the value
of crop production would increase by 50% and cash income from crops would
double (para 6.03). The project would therefore have a significant impact
upon the welfare of a large proportion of Togo's generally less developed
rural sector. For participating farmers it would represent a major step
towards modern crop husbandry practices and production additional to sub-
sistence requirements. The project would also strengthen SOTOCO's manage-
ment, provide training for over 700 field extension workers, and provide
some 700 km of improved rural roads.
8.02      The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 32% over
the 10 year project life. (Details of assumptions and calculations and the
results of sensitivity tests are shown in Annex 12). This relatively high
rate of return is typical of projects which aim at introducing high produc-
tivity techniques on annual crops grown with traditional low-yield methods.
The rate of return drops to 14% or 17%, for a 20% fall in benefits or a 20%
rise in costs respectively. If farmers' participation amounts to only 70%
of the report estimate, the rate of return falls to 20%. The project could
absorb rather severe setbacks and still remain attractive.
Risks
8.03      The project would be subject to a variety of risks of the types
to be expected in any large-scale rural development project. Among these
can be included yield responses, quality of management and extension staff,
logistic transport problems involved in transporting inputs and outputs and
most critical -- the willingness of farmers to adopt project practices.



- 24 -
However, such risks have been minimized by reinforcing SOTOCO's management
and extension network, with an average of 75 farmers per extension agent;
input distribution and cotton transport would be handled by SOTOCO's own
management and transport fleet. Nevertheless, an increase in the price of
cotton would provide an additional stimulus to farmers. In view of the
significance of cotton in the project, both with respect to its share of
incremental project benefits and its role as the lead crop in the technology
adoption process, inadequate producer incentives for cotton production are
therefore seen as the most important potential cause for failure to achieve
project targets. As stated in para 6.04, the producer price of cotton was
discussed during negotiations and an assurance was obtained that Government
would review yearly the producer prices with a view to ensuring that these
are set at a level to provide adequate incentives to cotton growers, and
therefore, minimize such a risk.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a) Government would review annually with IDA its policy
regarding the subsidies granted on fertilizers and
insecticides (para 2.16);
(b)  SOTOCO's statutes would be amended to extend its extension
activities to foodcrops in cotton areas (para 4.01);
(c) Government would make available to SOTOCO, through the
bareme procedure or by direct payments, all funds neces-
sary to SOTOCO during project implementation (para 4.13);
(d) Government would review yearly the farmgate price for seed
cotton, in consultation with IDA, with the purpose of main-
taining adequate producer incentives (para 6.04).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the payment by Government to SOTOCO, in an amount of
CFAF 275 million (US$1.1 million equivalent) (para 4.14);
(b) the effectiveness of the FAC Grant Agreement providing FAC's
co-financing of this project (para 5.03); and
(c) the deposit by Government in SOTOCO's special input procurement
account at CNCA of the amount of CFAF 300 million (US$1.2 mil-
lion equivalent (para 5.06).
9.03      Subject to the above major assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million.



Annex 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Progress of Agricultural Projects
Financed by IDA
A.        Credit No. 503-TO    Cocoa/Coffee Development Project: US$6 million
Credit of August 6, 1974
Effectiveness Date: March 12, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project's executing agency SRCC and the Project Credit Unit have
completed their staffing and infrastructure satisfactorily and operations have
been proceeding well. The planting program, by 1976, was ahead of appraisal
estimates. This lead will be less in 1977 for cocoa because an unusual drought
has limited seed production - but physical target, as appraised, will be met.
Project costs are under control in spite of price increases and the present
state of currency fluctuations. Action has been initiated towards the prepa-
ration of a follow-up project.
B.        Credit No. 638-TO    Maritime Region Development Project: US$9.5 million
Credit of June 16, 1976
Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The credit became effective on October 26, 1976. Because of FAC
financing, the project had already started on schedule and field trials are
underway. Key management positions have been filled and the 1977 agricultural
program has been prepared. Construction of project buildings has started and
procurement bids for road building equipment have been advertised.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
]        ~~~Ministry of     
Rural Development 
SOTOCO F am
General Aa nager                                                         Evauat i
Technicall hlanager 0
| Administration    land Mrketin                                    Training Divîsion                  Regionai Offices                       and
Administration                         Marke _in                                                                                        Mechanical Unit
Plateaux                 Centrale                  Kara                   Savanna
Region                   Region                  Region                   Region
| Secturs               Sectors                 Sectors                  Sectors                      Feeder Roads
Unit
Sub-                     Sub-                   Sub-                     Sub-
Sectors                 Sectors                 Sectors                  Sectors
Extension                Extension               Extension                Extension
Agents                   Agents                  Agents                   Agents



ANNEX 2
Table 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SOTOCO - Financial Accounts
(as at September 30, 1976)
in CFAF '000
I. Balance Sheet
Liabilities                                    Assets
Equity                       200,000             Fixed Assets           234,129
Investment Grants            182,714             Operational Assets:
Sub-total                 382,714                Fertilizers          32,589
Less:  Accumulated Deficit   130 245                Insecticides        129,297
252,469               Other                18,852
Creditors                                        Receivables:
State                        243,931                Farmers              52,868
Suppliers                     60o280                FAC                  27,000
State               24,253
Other               30,052
Cash at hand            7,640
Total          556,680                            Total  556,680
II. Operational Accounts
A. Marketing
Expenditure                                    Income
(through the OPAT barême)
Handling and                              Handling and
general expenses              17,518      general expenses               20,538
Transport                                 Transport                      31,156
SOTOCO:  maintenance                      Bags                            1,954
and operating expenses                    Financial charges               3,429
on trucks                       9,187                                    57,077
Transport by sub-                         Operational loss               18,181
contractors                    33,358
Bags and other expenses         4,904
Financial charges             10,291
Total           75,258                            Total   75,258
B. Extension Services
Salaries                     106,234      Operational subsidy            24,432
Admin. Expenses                13,170     Income from transport           1,402
Vehicles and Equipment                    Sales of seeds                  1,182
(op. maintenance and                      Other                           6,676
repairs)                       38,737                                    33,692
Operational deficit           124,449
Total         158,141                             Total  158,141
Total operational deficit for the year                   142,630



ANNEX 2
Table 2
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Operation of the Lama-Kara Gin
A. Investment
Estimated total cost
including building, access
roads and machinery                        CFAF 330 million (us$ 1.35 million)
B. Yearly Operating Costs (in '000 CFAF)
1.   Personnel: Technical Assistance  / 14i,000
Togolese personnel       10,000              24,000
2.   Maintenance and insurance                                  5,000
3.   Spare parts and other expenditure                         7,500
4.   Temporary labor                                           5,000
5.   Baling material                                           8,200
6.   Energy                                                    9,500
59,200
7.   Contingencies (20%)                                      11,800
Total operating costs:         71,000 -/
8.   Depreciation  (20 years)                                 16,500
Total Costs                    87,500
1/  Technical Assistance needed for the first three years can be
considered as an investment cost, thus reducing the operating
costs by CFAF 14 million, and increasing depreciation by
CFAF 0.7 million. The total yearly outlay would then be about
CFAF 74 million and the break-even point would be reached by
processing about 9,000 tons of seed cotton (at CFAF 8,500 per
ton).
2/ Based on processing of 9,000 tons of seedcotton. When 12,000
tons would be processed (in PY 5) costs would increase by 10%.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Marketing Price-structure
for seedcotton (1976-1977)
CFAF/ton
Producers price                                    50,000
Handling and storage                                1,700
Transport to gin                                    2,000
Unloading and warehouse expenses                    1,46o
General expenses of authorized buyer                1,300
55,460
CNCA financial charges
(8% over 2 months)                                    855
Commission to authorized buyer                      1,200
Bags                                                  200
Total                     58,785
Economic value                                    145,394 1/
Government surplus                                 95,394
Less:  Estimated cost of subsidies
on farm inputs 2/                           14,722
Net Government Income                              80,672
Surplus as percentage of economic value            65.6%
After deduction of input subsidies                 55.4%
1/ See Annex il, Table 3
2/ 150 kg fertilizers at CFAF 45/kg, 20 litres insecticides at CFAF 325/litre
(yield 900 kg)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
The Project Area
1.        Location.  The project would be located in areas with cotton grow-
ing potential in the Plateau, Centrai, Kara and Savanna regions. Broadly,
the geographical delimitation is between 6  50' - 11  of northern latitudy and
0  - 10 40' of eastern longitude, wit:h a total surface of about 50,000 km .
The area is bordered by the Maritime region in the South, Ghana in the West,
Benin in the East, and Upper Volta in the North.
2.        Administration.  The Plateau, Central and Kara regions are divided
into four, the Savanna region into two districts. Each district is headed
by an administrator (chef de circonscription), who is assisted by a district
council made up of village and "canton" chiefs. The district administrators
are responsible to the central government; there is no administrative struc-
ture at the regional level.
3.        Population of the project area is about 1.3 million (1973), about
15% are urban dwellers, and increases at a yearly rate of about 2.7%. Accord-
ing to surveys carried out in 1973, the rural population is distributed over
some 140,000 farms, with each farm family having an average of 7.5 members of
which slightly less than half are economically active. Main data on admini-
stration and population are shown on Map No. 12608.
4.        Climate.  The project area can be broadly divided into three climatic
zones (Map No. 12611). In the South (Plateau region), the climate is transi-
tional subequatorial with a bimodal rainfall pattern; while in the Center and
North, there is a tropical climate with a monomodal rainy season which is long
in the Central region and short in the Kara and Savanna regions. The precipi-
tation pattern in the Plateau region allows two crops to be grown successi-
vely during one season while in the central and northern parts of the country
only one crop per season is possible. Total rainfall and number of rainy
days (rd) increases from the southern part of the Plateau region (Notse: 1,167
mm, 84 rd) to the Center (Atakpame: 1,451 mm, 97 rd; Sokode: 1,413 mm, 108 rd)
and decreases again to the North (Lama Kara: 1,307 mm, 93 rd; Dapaon: 1,033
mm, 76 rd). (For details see Charts No. 16759 and 16760). Although informa-
tion to provide probability analysis of rainfall is lacking, opinions obtained
during appraisal indicate that a drought might occur every seven years that
could reduce yields by about 50%. This possible reduction has been taken into
consideration in yield assumptions.
Temperature varies little from South to North, with maxima and minima
differing only about 3 - 60 C. Variations between day and night are more signi-
ficant, reaching up to 15 - 200 C, particularly during the harmattan (dry wind)
season. The rain-carrying wind, monsoon, coming from the Southeast, sweeps



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the entire country from May-June onwards; in November, the monsoon is replaced
by the dry, dusty harmattan, blowing from the Northeast, which covers mainly
the northern and central parts of the country. Sunshine and evaporation
increase and relative humidity decreases from South to North, as illustrated
in the table below:
Station              Evaporation           Sunshine          Relative Humidity (%)
(mm)                (hours)        8:00 h      12:00 h      18:00 h
Lome                    1,095               2,382           87           70           84
Atakpame                1,295               2,282           89           61           70
Sokode                  1,326               2,417           81           57           67
Mango                   2,314               2,967           72           51           51
5.        Hydrology.  There are two major water streams in the project area.
The Oti river cuts across the entire Savanna region from Northwest to Southeast
and, with its tributaries, dominates an extended valley in which large areas
are subject to annual inundation. At the psint of entry into Togo, the mean
flow of the Oti his been calculated at 82 m /sec with large annual variations
from 0.6 to 411 m /sec. The second major river, the Mono, proceeds to the
South through the eastern part of Central and Plateau regions and forms the
border between TSgo and Benin in the Marit me region. Annual flow variations
rangs from 1.4 m /sec in February to 319 m /sec in September with a mean of
86 m /sec. While large areas of fertile valley soils are suitable for
irrigated agriculture, there are constraints to their development - lack of
roads, lack of water in the dry period, lack of water regulation in the wet
period, and occurrence of riverblindness in some areas. The groundwater
supply in the project area is spotty and generally insufficient for human
and animal needs.  In particular, the Central region suffers from the lack
of a suitable aquifer. FED is expected to finance a water supply project
that should commence in the second half of 1977, covering construction of
over 200 wells in the project area; therefore, this proposed project does
not include a separate well component.
6.        Pedology.  Several geologic formations traverse the country in bands
from Northeast to Southwest.  Largest is the granitic-gneissic basement com-
plex of the Precambrian which covers about three quarters of Togo's territory.
Various subdivisions of the Precambrian and the schist and sandstone series
of the Voltaien formation in the North of the country had greatest impact on
the pedogenesis. The two most important soil groups that developed are the
ferruginous tropical soils covering well over half of the project area and
the ferralitic soils occurring in the western part of the Plateau region
and in smaller pockets in the eastern part of the Kara region. Hydromorphic
ferruginous soils, predominant in the southern part of the project area, are
normally poor in organic matter, have a mediocre structure, and suffer often



ANNEX 3
Page 3
from drainage problems. If these soils are drained and fertilized they can
successfully support most of the annual crops. Ferruginous leached soils,
occurring in the northern part of the project area, are mostly sandy with low
clay and organic matter contents. With organic and mineral fertilization
added, these soils can produce high yields of annual crops. Finally, there
are sizeable pockets of highly fertile vertisols, West and North of Atakpame.
in the Plateau and southern part of the Central region; small pockets of
fertile eutrophic (rich in nutrients) brown soils north of Lama Kara; an
extended area of low fertility lithosols on both sides of the Atakora mountain
chain stretching through the Center of Kara and Central and West of Plateau
regions; and the lithosol band passing from east to west, south of Dapaon in
the Savanna region. The main soil groups are illustrated in Map 12610.
7.        Vegetation.  The predominant type of vegetation in the southern
part of the project area is the Guinean wooded savanna with Terminalia,
Butyrospernum and Andropogon as main species. The area is interspersed with
islands of dense wooded savanna represented with Anogeissus, Isoberlinia and
Afzelia; and the Center is marked by degraded zones of intensive cultivation.
The North is qualified as Sudano-guinean wooded savanna characterized by
Aristida, Eragrostis, and Parkia. Extensive pockets of degraded zones of
intensive cultivation are found around and north of Lama Kara and around
-Dapaon.
Regional Characteristics
8.        The northernmost Savanna region is characterized by an irregular
and short-duration rainfall pattern (1,100 mm). The topal population was
262,000 in 1973, with an overall density of about 30/km; but while the Oti
Valley is virtually empty because of onchocerciasis, other parts of the
region have much higher concentration (up to 90/km ). Principal crops
are millet/sorghum, groundnuts, and recently, rice and cotton; the area
has moderate prospects for livestock development and ox-cultivation. Sur-
veys indicate that 93,000 ha of land are cultivated by some 23,900 farms
(shoukhalas) with an average farm size of 3.9 ha. The practice of multiple
intercropping is common. The length of the fallow period varies according to
zones and demographic pressure; it is estimated that, on average, the time of
fallowing is equally as long as the time of cropping, which bring the area
under fallow to some 90,000 ha. Less fallowing is practised in the higher
populated Dapaon area than in the lower populated Mango area. Main physical
data for the project area, main food crops grown and areas cultivated are
given in Table 1. The Savanna region has had traditionally the highest
proportion of domestic animals of the whole country. The cattle population
is estimated in the region of 75,000 head, or about 40% of Togo's total.
The main breed is the trypaho-tolerant Borgou which in the North is interbred
with the Zebu. A small herd of N'Damas, imported in 1968 from Mali, amounted
to about 250 head in 1975. The Savanna is also the only region where the
introduction of ox-cultivation has had some success; it is reported that,
in 1975, more than 1,300 farmers used ox teams. The major part of herds
are guarded by Peuhl herders; the rest is supervised by farmer-owners.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        The Kara region, a mountainous region, has adequate rainfall
(1,400 mm) but low agricultural potential due to overpopulation and the  2
resultant depletion of soil fertility. Population density averages 53/km
but reaches almost 300/km in some areas; while about one fourth of the
region is unpopulated due to onchocerciasis. Migration to the south, both
seasonal (about 20% of the male population) and permanent, is already signi-
ficant and will have to continue if the problems of overpopulation in the
region are to be solved. A FED-financed project, started in 1974, aims
at easing the population pressure in the area of the Kabiye massive and
to resettle some 200 families into the Kara valley; the project is making
good progress. According to recent surveys (1973), some 26,200 ha are
cropped in the Kara region by 32,300 farmers. The average farm size is about
0.8 ha; farms are smaller in the mountainous areas and close to urban centers
and larger in the rest of the region. In areas with highest population
densities (the Cabrais and Piemonts areas), fallowing has been greatly
reduced or even eliminated, whereas in less populated areas fallowing is
similar to the practices in the Savanna region. Main crops of the area are
sorghum, yam, groundnuts; recent introductions are rice and cotton. A con-
siderable production of millet, cowpeas and groundnuts comes from various
methods of intercropping.
10.  2    The Central region is the least populated region with only about
19/km . Precipitation, which averages about 1,300 mm per annum in a single
season, and generally adequate soils can support most of the annual
food and industrial crops. However, the absence of an easily accessible
aquifer to supply drinking water is a major constraint to settlement and
agricultural development. About 65,000 ha are cultivated by some 29,200
farmers. The average farm size is 2.2 ha; farms are smaller in the South
and larger in the North of the region. Main crops cultivated are sorghum,
followed in area and importance by yam and cassava. About one third of these
crops are grown in pure culture. A sizeable production of maize, cowpeas and
groundnuts is coming from intercropped areas. The cattle population in 1971
was estimated at 52,000 head, about one third of Togo's total. Almost two
thirds of it was concentrated in the northern district of Bassar. The herds
are almost exclusively guarded by Peuhl herders.
11.       The Plateau region, with average annual rainfall of 1,200-1,690 mm
(bimodal), generally good soils and a population density of about 30/km ,
has the best agricultural potential. Cocoa and coffee dominate the wetter,
mountainous area to the west, while the central and eastern part of the
region is suited for integrated cotton/food crop development and intensive
maize cultivation. Other crops of considerable importance are yam and
cassava. About half of the total area (Table 1) of both crops is grown
in pure culture. Sorghum, rice, cowpeas and groundnuts are of lesser impor-
tance; they are cultivated either in pure stands or in various combinations
of intercropping. The total farming area is around 70,000 ha; but on part



ANNEX 3
Page 5
of that area, the bimodal rainfall pattern allows two crops to be grown per
year and the total cultivated area was estimated at 93,400 ha in 1973. There
are some 55,000 farms. The average farm size is about 1.4 ha; farms are
smaller in the South and West and larger in the North. The region is self-
sufficient and exports crops such as maize, yam, cassava, cowpeas, rice
and fruits. Although the Plateau region has permanent rivers, sufficient
grazing land and annual crop residues, the cattle population is only about
31,000 head. The herds are considered partly as capital investment and
social security which the owners are reluctant to dispose of. As in the
other areas, herds are supervised by Peuhls.
12.       Land Tenure.  In the southern and central part of the country,
land is owned by the local community and individual farmers receive usufruct
rights from village chiefs. In the northern parts, the tenure system is
based on extended family ownership and principles of inheritance within
the family. Leasing of land to migrant farmers is possible in all areas.
The systems of land tenure are satisfactory and it is not expected that
they will pose any constraints to project implementation.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
MIAIN PHYSICAL DATA AND CROPS OF PROJECT AREA
REGION
DATA                   PLATEAU       CENTRAL        KARA        SAVANNA       TOTAL
2
Total area (km )        16,930        20,000        4,490         8,470       49,890
Cultivated area (ha)   93,400         64,600       26,200        93,000      277,200
Population 1/ ('000)       520           300          251           262         1,333
Farms (No.)             54,700        29,200       32,300        23,900      140,100
Crops (ha) 2/
Maize                 27,700           600          200           200       28,700
Sorghum                5,000        36,700       19,200       35,100        96,000
Millet                   600           900          800        40,700       43,000
Rice                   3,900           400        1,100         1,700        7,100
Yam                   14,900        20,300        1,700         1,000       37,900
Cassava                6,700         3,200          100           -         10,000
Cowpeas                1,700           200          100           -          2,000
Groundnuts               900           500        1,100       13,500        16,000
Others                32,000         1,800        1,900           800       36,500
Total                 93,400        64,600       26,200       93,000       277,200
1/   In 1973.
2/   Areas given in table include pure stands of crops and intercropped areas
in which the indicated crop is in clear majority (mixed predominant
stands, primary combinations).  Minority combinations (mixed subsidiary
stands, secondary combinations) are not included.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Rainfall Figures for Notse and Atakpame (Plateau Region)
(1941-1970)
NOTSE
200
ANN. MEAN = 1167 mm
RAINY DAYS  84
E
E 150
z  ioo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i                  l        
2      3       7      8      1 1     1 1     7      6       11  11         5       2
RAINY DAYS (No.)
ATAKPAME
200
ANN. MEAN = 1451 mm
RAINY DAYS = 97
E 150
E
LI.
z  100
50
1      3       6      8      10      12     14      11      14     12      4       2
RAINY DAYS (No.)
JAN.   FEB.  MARCH  APRIL   MAY   JUNE   JULY   AUG.  SEPT.  OCT.   NOV.   DEC.
World Bank - 16759



T Z
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC iW 'lcOT' iOiJ ARL'AS
Rainfall Figurcs for Sckode (Cerdtii Ragion),
Lama Kara (Kara Region) and Dapaon (Savanna Region)
(1941-1970)
SOKODE
250-
ANN. MEAN - 1413 mmn
200    RAINY DAYS  108
E
-2 150
z
oe100
50
1 2             5       8       il     16       15      17      17      11       3       2
RAINY DAYS (No.)
LAMA KARA
250
ANN. MEAN = 1307 mm
200    RAINY DAYS =93
E
'  150
<
o  100
1       4       7       10      13      14      14      16      il       2
RAINY DAYS (No.)
ANN. MEAN  1033 mRn
200  -RAINY DAYS =76
-J
50
1   2       5       8       10      il      16      16       6 
RAINY DAYS (No.)
JAN.   FEB. MARCH  APRIL   MAY   .JUN E   JULY    AUG.   SEPT.   OCT.   NOV.   D EC.
WAorId Sank-16760



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Farm and Crop Development
A. Introduction
1.        Technical data and recommendations on agricultural production
in the project area are based on information provided by the specialized
research agencies such as IRCT and IRAT, the FAO fertilizer program, and
the field experience of the SORADs and SOTOCO.
2.        Over the past decade, work on varieties has concentrated on cotton.
For this crop there has been steady progress, and a good variety has been
developed and introduced in Togo. For improved food crop varieties, intensive
screening has only a recent history; the first promising results are on
hand, and there are indications that further improvements would be achieved
during project duration.
3.        Fertilizer studies have revealed that cotton responds well to
basic nutrients (NPK) complemented by sulphur and boron. With maize and
sorghum, a very favorable response to nitrogen has been established, through-
-out the project area, particularly in the south where soils are relatively
well supplied with phosphorus and potassium. In the northern parts, where
the natural phosphate content of soils is low, yield increases of cereals
and groundnuts were demonstrated with phosphatic fertilizers. Since organic
matter content is generally low, the project would encourage the incorpora-
tion of crop residues into the soil.
4.        Land preparation methods would be aimed at lessening drought effects.
On soils with high run-off and low infiltration rates, crops would be planted
on tie-ridges. Cultivation and planting along the contour together with
correct plant densities would be recommended as a basic measure for soil
erosion control on sloping lands. On level lands and soils with good per-
meability and water retention properties, cultivation of crops on the flat
would be recommended.
5.        Pests on food crops, although present, have not reached proportions
that would economically justify chemical control. Pests on cotton, however,
are many; regular and well performed applications of chemicals during the
critical growing period are an essential condition for achieving high yields.
The table below gives mean results of five years' IRCT experimentation with
pest control in four locations of the project area (yield in kg/ha):



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Pest Control:      None       Full      Full
Region                            Fertilizer:         None      None      200 kg/ha
Plateaux                                              300      1,230        2,030
Centrale                                              300        970        1,550
Kara                                                  200        360        1,380
Savanna                                               200        980        1,980
Cotton pest control has undergone a number of very substantial changes in
past years that has enabled considerable labor savings and yield increases.
6.         The achievements in pest control, variety developments, improved
crop nutritional standards and integrated farming systems were possible
because of continuous research. To back up the production side this project
would help further develop a research and seed production component (Annex 6).
B. Farm Systems
7.         Information on family composition, farm size, and crop composition
is based on regional surveys carried out in 1972-74. Ecological, ethnical
and demographic conditions vary considerably from region to region. Figures
on farm and family size and crop composition in the project for all regions
are summarized in Table 1.
8.         In the Plateau region, the average project farm would be about
1.3 ha, though 2 ha would be cultivated in one year because of the bimodal
rainfall pattern. Cereals, mainly maize (0.7 ha), tuber crops (0.6 ha), and
cotton (0.7 ha) would form the bulk of crop production. It has been assumed
that to accomodate the cotton area into the crop rotation under the project,
the average farmer would give up because of possible land shortage, an esti-
mated 0.25 ha of cereals and 0.1 ha of tuber crops; the rest of the cotton
output would come mainly from replacing the low yielding cotton type G.
barbadense and increased double cropping. In the Centrale region, an average
project farm would have 2.4 ha. The subsistence cereal grown in t he southern
part would be maize, while in the North, the predominant cereal would be
sorghum, accounting for about two thirds of total regional cereal production.
The average cereal area would be 1.2 ha. Yam(0.6 ha) is a very important crop
of this region, the taste qualities are highly appreciated by the local
population and a considerable part of the production is being sold on local
markets. The average farmer would cultivate about 0.6 ha of cotton and it is
estimated that he would forego some 0.2 ha of cereals and 0.1 ha of tubers to
incorporate cotton into his farming pattern. The remaining cotton area would



ANNEX 4
Page 3
be derived by replacing G. barbadense and from fallow. In the Kara region,
project farms would be located outside the densely populated mountainous and
semi-urban areas and would have an average size of 1.2 ha. Cotton (0.3 ha)
would be placed mainly on fallow lands. Other main crops on the farms would
be sorghum (0.8 ha) and groundnuts (0.1 ha). Millet and cowpeas would be
produced in mixed subsidiary stands (secondary combination) with sorghum,
outside the cotton rotation. The Savanna region has the largest farms, with aL
mean of 3.9 ha. It has been assumed that the average project farmer would
give up 0.2 ha of cereals and 0.1 ha of groundnuts for cotton, while the
additional cotton area would come from fallow land. The average crop compo-
sition on the project farm would thus be 2.8 ha of cereals, 0.5 ha groundnuts,
0.5 ha cotton and 0.1 ha other crops.
9.        In the bimodal rainfall area, the basic recommended crop rotation
would be maize-cotton. Maize plantings would coincide with the increase in
rainfall in March, early April, to enable an early harvest and sowing of
cotton between the maize rows. Care would have to be taken that the maize
harvest is completed and the stalks knocked down within 15 days after cotton
is sown to avoid prolonged shadowing of the young cotton plants. Although
this practice has been widely accepted by farmers in the Plateau region,
timing of these operations is crucial and would have to become one of the
main subjects of training and extension work.  Experience shows that, with
correctly applied husbandry techniques, this rotation can be continued on
the same plots for a number of years without nutrient deficiencies or pest
build-up. Rotational issues would be kept under constant review by exten-
sion and research agencies. In the Central region, the recommended rota-
tion would again be cotton-cereals, with one crop following the other with
one year's interval as dictated by the monomodal rainfall pattern. In the
Savanna and on part of the cotton plots in the Kara region, the basic crop
rotation would be cotton-sorghum-groundnuts. Improved techniques would be
introduced on those portions of cereals and groundnuts that are in rotation
with cotton. The remaining cereal areas would benefit from SOTOCO's advice
on basic husbandry but would not be subject to inputs. Both rotations com-
plement deep and shallow-rooting crops and direct and residual effects of
fertilizer.
10.       Cotton would be fertilized at the rate of 150 kg/ha in the Plateau
region and 200 kg/ha in other regions of a boronated NPKS compound. At the
highest management level (Stage III), it would be supplemented with additional
nitrogen in the form of 50 kg/ha urea. In Stage II, cereals following cotton
in rotation would benefit from the residual effects of cotton fertilizer and,
in Stage III, would receive an additional booster of 50 kg/ha (sorghum) and
100 kg/ha (maize) of urea. The advanced stage of groundnuts (Stage III) would
be additionally fertilized with 100 kg/ha of Togolese rock phosphate (35%
P205), which would, however, be applied to the preceding sorghum crop, since
release of the phosphorus content of this fertilizer is slow. Only about 15%
can be utilised by crops in the year of application while the major part is
released for crop nutrition in the second year.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.       Intercropping is practised widely in the project area in all
imaginable combinations. It is not rare to find fields with cereals, tuber
crops, cotton (G. barbadense) and legumes, and in some instances, upland
rice or various other minor crops (pumpkins, etc). While information on
the technical and economic advantages of the multiple combinations is very
scanty, there is no doubt that this form of crop growing has deep ethnologic
roots. On the positive side, it can be considered as a substitution for crop
rotations. However, establishment of correct plant populations and weed
control is difficult and, for this reason, it would be attempted under the
project to keep the main crops in the cotton-food crop rotation free of other
additions. This approach is also important as preparation for the possible use
of more sophisticated weed control methods (herbicides) at a later stage.
12.       Table 1 gives a summary of farm demography for the four project
regions. In terms of adult labor equivalent (ALE), the cultivated area/person
ranges from 0.26 ha in the Kara to 0.84 ha in the Savanna region. An analysis
of available and required labor for the four basic farm models with cotton,
cereals and groundnuts in development Stage III, corresponding to PY 5 for the
most advanced project farmers, shows that there would be no labor problems.
The results are shown in Chart 16761. The peak labor requirements would
generally occur at planting and weeding time, i.e. mainly in June and July.
Highest labor demand would be in the Savanna region, in June, when practically
all available labor would be called for, mainly for weed control. However,
with the proposed introduction of ox-cultivation in this region, the labor
peak should be eased, particularly as interrow cultivation with oxen is very
efficient. Labor requirements during land preparation and harvest are con-
siderable but relatively sufficient time is available to carry out this work:
even if that time should, for any reason, be cut by half for both of these
operations, the available labor force should still manage the work without
outside help. However, insistence on timely field operations and help in
organizing farm labor efficiently would be a major extension task. Labor
requirements for crops and by regions and development stages are given in the
table below (detailed labor demand for crops in development Stage III is in
Table 2):



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Development                                                        ALE days
Crop                                        Stage          0    I    Il   III    Oxen
Cotton                 Region
Plateaux                          85   100   110  120
Centrale                          110   130   140  150
Kara                              100   120   140  150       -
Savanna                          100   120   140  150       105
Maize                                                     65    65    80  105       -
Sorghum                                                   60    60    75   90       42
Groundnuts                                                85    85    85  110        70
Yam, Cassava                                             200   200      -   -       -
Cowpeas                                                   60    60      -   -       40
13.       Farm Models and Budgets.  Data on crop production characteristics
by development stage for the four regional farm models are in Tables 3a-6a and
farm budgets are presented in Tables 3b-6b. The budgets were worked out with
the assumption that an average project. farmer would reach Stage III in cotton
production after four years and in food crops after five years of project
participation (see Annex 4,D). The project would reach about 40% of the
farmers in the project area. Fertilizer and insecticide costs were calcula-
ted at current subsidized prices (fertilizer CFAF 15/kg, insecticides CFAF
400/1), seeds were generally valued ai: market prices. In calculation of net
cash income, adjustments were made for annual family food consumption. Under
the project, the net cash farm income per average farm family would about
double in the Plateau and Central region and increase almost ten times in
the Savanna region. In the Kara region, it would create an income of CFAF
8,000 (US$32). The contribution of cotton to the net cash income in develop-
ment Stage III would be almost 40% in Plateau, about 30% in Central and over
50% in the Savanna region. In the Kara region the farm cash income would
originate entirely from cotton. Introducing work oxen in the Savanna would
double the average farmers' income after 3 to 7 years and increase it 2.5
times after more than 8 years of operation (Annex 4, Table 6c and Annex 5,
para 8).
14.       Nutritional Standards.  The farm budgets indicate that a marketable
surplus of cereals and tubers is at present produced only in the Plateaux
and Centrale regions. In the Kara and Savanna regions practically all cereal
production is consumed locally. Further, basing the requirements per adult
at about 2,300 cal/day, supply is sufficient in the Plateau and Central
slightly deficient in the Savanna, and very deficient in the Kara region.
Under the project there would be an overall increase of food supplies to
project participants; supply in the Savanna would increase to 2,300 cal/day,
in the Kara the supply would double from the present 840 to 1,640 cal in
PY 5. The annual cereal production in kg per family member would increase
as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Production of cereals per annum
(kg per family member)
Region                                         PY 0                 FY 5
Plateau                                         73                   188
Central                                        86                    156
Kara                                           61                     97
Savanna                                       137.                   177
C. Major Crops
Cotton
15.       Until 1966 only the low producing Gossypium barbadense variety Mono,
was cultivated in Togo. The production was on an extensive basis, with cotton
being intercropped with other crops, mainly tubers, insect control non-existent,
and yields very low, usually less than 100 kg/ha seed cotton. Starting in 1967
the Government, with the help of CFDT, began introducing Gossypium hirsutum
which gradually increased from 600 ha to some 18,000 ha in 1975-76; mean
yields, however, remained at a static level of 600-700 kg/ha. At the same
time, the area of Mono decreased to about 13,000 ha in 1975-76. Part of this
area is in pure stands, which provide good potential for early replacement by
G. hirsutum.
16.       The hirsutum varieties introduced originally were HAR 444-2 and
Allen 333-61. In 1976 they were replaced countrywide by L 299-10 which has
received the name Bou. The following table gives mean yield results of three
years experimentation of four most promising varieties under trial:
Yields of Seed Cotton
(yields expressed as % of control variety Allen, which is given in kg/ha)
Region
Variety             Maritime      Plateau    Central       Kara      Savanna       Mean
Allen 333-61         1,631        1,552         1,147     1,380      1,980       1,488
HAR 444-2              102.3         99.7         100.1      95.7       99.4        99.7
L 299-10 (Bou)         102.4        106.6         100.8     102.7       97.4       104.2
L 231-24                87.1         98.3         100.5      97.6      102.2        98.2



ANNEX 4
Page 7
While the yield of Bou is not significantly higher than that of
Allen, the ginning percentage is higher by 3 - 4 points and the technological
properties of the fibre are better. The ginning outturn on a 30 saw gin
at the IRCT research station in Kolokope was 44%. Project calculations are
based on an outturn of 40%. Technological properties of Allen and Bou are
compared in the Table below:
Fibre          Uniformity                      Pressley   Maturity
Variety             length (mm)    ratio  (%)       Fineness       Index         (%)
Bou                    28.7             51.6            4.41          7.74       79.2
Allen                  28.6             51.1            3.97          7.41       75.5
17.       Within the framework of farmers' groups, or grower associations, the
extension service would make efforts te group cotton farmers -- i.e., farmers
would cultivate contiguous plots of cotton, forming blocks, to facilitate
supervision, transport and fertilizer application, cultivation, pest identi-
fication and control. This practice has already been started by SOTOCO and
has been well accepted by farmers in some areas (e.g. Bassar area of the
Centrale region). The popularization and introduction of new techniques, like
ULV-pest control, and ox-drawn cultivation, would be used to stimulate blocking
of cotton fields.
18.       In the Plateaux region, where rainfall is bimodal and cotton would
be sown between the rows of the preceding maize, no special soil preparation
would be required. Fertilizer would be applied before cotton sowing at the
rate of 150 kg/ha of a NPKSB (15:25:15:5:1) compound. In the other regions,
hand hoeing or plowing and preparation of soil would be done immediately after
the long-season food crops have been planted. Basic fertilizer would be
applied during soil preparation.
19.       Cotton seed would be dressed with a combined insecticide-fungicide
(Gamoran or similar) at the rate of 200 g per 100 kg of seed. Dressing woulci
be carried out in the ginnery and farmers would receive seed ready for plant--
ing. Planting would be done at the recommended spacing of 80 cm between rows
and 20 cm within the row. Seed rate would be 30 kg/ha of machine-delinted
seed; five seeds would be sown per station. Gapping would be carried out 5 to
7 days after emergence. Thinning would be done at the stage of 3 to 4 true
leaves, one to two plants would be left per stand, depending on row crop
density, with the goal to achieve a population of some 63,000 plants per ha.
Depth of planting would not exceed 2 cm since the cotyledons of deeper planted
cotton have difficulties in penetrating the soil. Recommended planting dates
would be as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Region                           Date
Plateau                         20 June to 15 July
Central                         10 June to 30 June
Kara and Savanna                 1 June to 15 June
20.       Weeding is of great importance for cotton, as this slow growing crop
has a very poor ability to compete with weeds. Weed control has to commence
preferably at the cotyledon stage of the predominant weed species. According
to weed infestation, weather conditions and cotton growing rates, generally
three weedings and/or reridgings would have to be done. In Stage III, a
topdressing of urea would be banded along the cotton rows. It is imperative
that topdressing be combined with the weeding operation because urea must be
incorporated into the soil to prevent nitrogen losses. After application,
urea breaks down into ammonia which would escape into the atmosphere if not
covered by soil. Teaching advanced farmers the correct method of urea top-
dressing would be an important task of extension work.
21.       Peasant farmers generally start cotton harvesting too late.  The
principle that first picking should commence as soon as the first three to
five bolls per plant are fully opened is only rarely followed. Since boll
splitting starts at the bottom of the plant, late spells of rain, dew and soil
dust often cause discoloration and deterioration of the fibre. Also, exposure
of opened bolls to protracted intensive sunshine causes fibre quality to
suffer; and direct physical losses occur when drooping bolls are exposed to
strong winds. Therefore, to commence picking at the right time and to pick
speedily is essential. The extension service would teach farmers to pick into
bags tied around the waist, to use both hands for picking, and thus to lessen
the manday requirement for harvest and, very importantly, to grade seed cotton
into two categories while picking. Well-graded cotton commands a higher price
on the market. Harvested seed cotton in farmers' and market stores should be
protected from sunshine, dust and rain.
22.       The bacterial blight or black arm disease (Xanthomonas malvacearum)
is endemic but most of the modern varieties, including Bou, are provided with
an inbred resistance. Other diseases, attacking mainly young plants, like
Rhizoctonia, Pythium, and Colletotrichum, are efficiently controlled by seed
dressing. Pests are a much greater problem than diseases and those responsible
for the most damage on cotton are the bollworms. The prime ravagers in Togo
are the American Bollworm (Heliothis armigera) and Red Bollworm (Diparopsis
castanea and D. watersi), followed by Spiny Bollworm (Earias spp.) and Pink
Bollworm (Pectinophora gossypiella) and lately by Cryptophlebia leucotreta
(Argyroploce). The bollworms attack flowers, buds and bolls, feed on the soft
tissues inside and cause necrosis and shedding of these fruiting organs. The



ANNEX 4
Page 9
stainers (Dysdercus spp.) are sucking on maturing bolls and infect these with
bacteria causing yellow to brown discoloration of the fibre. Cosmophila,
Xanthodes and Lygus are leaf-eating insects which often cause extensive damage
of leaf surface area, while jassids (Empoasca facialis) and cotton aphids
(Aphis gossypii) can cause severe reduction in plant growth and development by
sucking on the underside of leaves. In some years, late in the season, the
red spider mite (Tetranychus atlanticus), can cause damage similar to that
caused by aphids.
23.       Pest Control has been carried out, so far, with hand-operated knap-
sack sprayers equipped with a two-row spraying frame, using water as carrying
media for the insecticide. The insecticide in use was mainly Peprothion, ap-
plied in six sprays per season at a total rate of 15 1/ha. Under the project,
water-based knapsack spraying would be phased out at the rate of depreciation
of the T-15 sprayers and replaced with battery operated ULV (ultra-low-volume)
sprayers. The rate of replacement of knapsack sprayers with ULV sprayers is
evident from Annex 9, Table 12. The main advantages of ULV. compared to knap-
sack spraying are four: no water is required, no hand pumping is involved
since the sprayer is operated by a small electric engine, the sprayer is almost
10 times lighter than a full knapsack sprayer, and finally an area three to
five times larger can be treated per day. The recommended insecticide would
be initially Peprothion ULV which controls most of the parasites reasonably
well. Research is presently undertaken on screening alternative ULV materials
with lower mammal toxicity and biodegradable components which would improve
the coverage of pests and to counter-effect an eventual build-up of resis-
tance. The ULV insecticide would be used at about 18-20 1/ha in six to eight
sprays per season. It has been estimated that one sprayer would initially
cover only 5 ha per season and the average life time would be three years.
Maize
24.       Maize is the predominant staple food of the Plateau and southern
part of the Central regions and is cultivated in the project area on some
30,000 ha in pure and mixed predominant stands and on 18,000 ha in mixed
subsidiary stands.
25.       The local varieties have a good taste but low productivity: the
recommended variety under the project would be initially NH-1, a hybrid from
Benin that can be replanted as F2 generation, without substantial losses in
yield. In consequence seed would be replaced every third year. NH-1 has
yields on the average about 20-30% higher than local varieties and is well
accepted by the local population. It is a white grain short-season variety
reaching full maturity in about 110 days. A high yielding, open-pollinated
variety, Mexico-18, has been released recently for multiplication, but its
practical spread is limited because of its hard grain and the long time
required for milling. In general, the offer of maize varieties is unsatis-
factory and IRAT, in close cooperation with IITA-Ibadan, would look for
alternative solutions that would satisfy both yields and local taste pre-
ference. Promising varieties are in the pipeline, as can be seen from results
published in the 1975 IRAT annual report:



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Region                                           Plateau               Maritime
Station:                                 Amontchou         Notse         Davie
Variety - yield (t/ha):  Ivoire I             -              -            6.3
La Posta          6.5             -            5.5
Ghana Compos. 4  6.3              -             -
Coast Compos      6.1             -
Composite W       5.9             -             -
Mexico 18         5.3            4.6           4.7
NH-1              4.0            3.7           3.8
Local              -             3.1           3.0
Other varieties that proved very successful in IITA trials, like TZB, TZPB,
NCA, NCB, would be added to the program shortly (in 1975 all of these
varieties, tested at six locations in Nigeria, yielded over 6.4 t/ha). It is
expected that some of the high-yielding varieties would be released into rural
areas before the end of the project.
26.       In the bimodal rainfall area, soil preparation would start with the
increase in rainfall in late February - early March to enable timely planting
in mid-March or the beginning of April at the latest. In the Sotouboua area
of the Central region, soil preparation would commence with the oncoming
rains in March/April to make planting possible in the second half of April and
in May. In Stage II, maize would make use of the residual fertilizer applied
to cotton and in Stage III an additional topdressing of 100 kg/ha urea would
be mixed into the soil at the second interrow cultivation.
27.       Maize seed would be dressed with an insecticide-fungicide mixture
(such as 25% TMD and 25% heptachlor) at the rate of 200 g per 100 kg of seed.
Seed rate would be 20 kg/ha, depth of planting 5 cm, spacing 80 x 30 cm at two
seeds per station, and thinned at three weeks to one plant per station to give
a theoretical population of about 42,000 plants per ha. Weeding of maize is
critical during the first three to four weeks after planting; after that the
fast-growing crop, if established at the correct plant population, has excel-
lent weed suppressing properties. An average maize crop would be weeded
twice. Stemborer (principally Sesamia and Coniesta) control would be intro-
duced as and when necessary.
28.       In the bimodal rainfall area where cotton is being planted between
the rows of still-standing maize, harvesting should be done speedily so that
maize stalks would be flattened within 15 days after cotton sowing. In the
Central region, harvest timing is not so critical, but speedy harvesting would
be encouraged to avoid losses in the field. Maize would be stored on-the-cob
in shelters until humidity drops to 12-13%. Shelled maize would be stored in
large jars. Farmers would be encouraged to use 2% Bromophos at the rate of 1
kg per ton to minimize storage losses. Improving grain storage would become a
major research item.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 1
Sorghum
29.       It ïs estimated that sorghum is grown in the project area on about
96,000 ha in pure and mixed predominant stands and on some 12,000 ha in mixed
subsidiary stands. Sorghum is the staple food of the Central, Kara and Savania
regions.
30.       Local varieties and strains are traditionally very tall, with a
height of 4-6 m, a strong stalk, andi a relatively loosely grouped seedhead.
The low naturel yield potential coupled with insufficient nutrition and low
plant populations (often only 40-60% of the recommended number of plants per
area) is responsible for the low average yield of 500-600 kg/ha. The growing
period of the8e varieties is long, about 160-170 days. On the other hand the
taste is highly appreciated by the local population, the beer brewing qualities
are excellent, and the long stover can be used as roofing and heating materiaL.
Introduction of new varieties that would not meet the local requirements as to
taste and beer brewing qualities would very likely face difficulties. It is
thus imperative that promising varieties be exposed to widespread local
testing before mass release into rural areas. This is one of the reasons why
introduction of new varieties has been carefully reviewed in project planning,
and although sorghum seed multiplication is relatively easy, and ecologically
suitable varieties have been identified, first improved seed is anticipated to
be used only in PY 3. Several varieties under IRAT testing, shown in the
table below, are very promising (results of 1975 season):
Region                                   Savanna                        Central
Station:                  Nagbeni 1      Nagbeni 2     Sango           Kitangbao
Variety-yield (t/ha):
Naga white               2.9                         0.5               1.0
Ghana 1                   -              -            -                1.5
Dan Yalwa                 -             3.8           -                 -
IRAT 55                   -              -            -                1.7
CE 90                     -             2.9           -                 -
65                       1.8            2.2          0.5
CE 99                     -             2.1           -
CE 67                     -             2.0           -                 -
517                      0.5             -           1.5               0.5
219                       -             -            1.0               1.4
473                       -             -            1.4
Local                    0.6             -           1.4
The final selection of varieties for seed multiplication would
be taken with regard to experimental results from the 1976 and 1977 seasons.
Nucleus seed stock of all promising varieties is annually produced in suf-
ficient quantities by IRAT.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
31.       Soil preparation would be similar to that of maize in the Central
region, only to the north field operations vould start later because of later
arrival of the rains. In Stage II and III sorghum would benefit residually
from cotton fertilizer. In the Kara and Savanna regions, sorghum areas
supposed to be followed in the crop rotation by groundnuts would receive 100
Okg/ha of Togolese raw phosphate, at time of soil preparation. Nitrogen
nutrition at Stage III would be enhanced by 50 kg/ha urea mixed into the soil
at second weeding.
32.       Seed would be dressed with a combined insecticide-fungicide in the
same manner as maize. Sorghum would be planted from May to July, depending on
rains, earlier in the center, later in the north of the country. Recommended
spacing is 80 cm x 40 cm at five seeds per station, thinned after crop estab-
lishment to two plants per station, giving a population of about 63,000 plants
per hectare. Planting depth would be 3 cm, seed rate 8-10 kg/ha.
33.       Depending on weed infestation and frequency of rains, two to three
weedings would be carried out at 7-10 day intervals after planting. Harvest-
ing and storage would be similar as for maize.
Groundnuts
34.       An estimated 16,000 ha of groundnuts (of which over 80% in the
Savanna region) are cultivated annually in pure and mixed predominant stands
while almost the same area is grown in mixed subsidiary stands. Under the
project groundnut growing would be improved in the Kara and Savanna regions.
35.       Until recently there was no improvement in groundnut varieties.
Traditional, degenerated varieties are yielding around 400 kg/ha of unshelled
nuts. Recent IRAT work has identified several good varieties, of which RMP
12 has started to be introduced in the Savanna region and would be recommended
under the project. It is a medium-sized, pink-kernelled variety, growing
in about 140 days to full maturity. IRAT variety trials results in 1975
are given in the table below:



ANNEX 4
Page 13
Region:               Savanna                   Central
Station:         Sango        Nagbeni          Kitangbao 1/
Variety - yield (t/ha)
RMP 12                                    2.6            1.7               2.5
RMP 91                                    2.5            1.6               2.0
57-313                                    1.7            1.6               1.4
241 C                                     1.5             -                 -
149A                                      1.5            1.5
SA 156                                     -             1.6                -
Mwintunde                                                 -                1.8
1040                                                                       1.7
1/   Results in Kitangbao are also indicative for the Kara region.
36.       Land would be prepared and ridged during April and May.  Planting
would be carried out preferably during June. Togolese raw phosphate would be
applied at a rate of 100 kg/ha to sorghum, preceding groundnuts in rotation.
Only an estimated 15% of P 205 would be released in the year of application,
leaving the bulk of phosphorus nutrition to groundnuts. Seed would be shelled
and dressed under SOTOCO supervision by farmers. About 100 kg of unshelled
seed would be required per hectare, recommended spacing would be 80 cm x 12 cm
in the row, giving a population of about 100,000 plants per hectare. Weeding
would be carried out as for sorghum; but since crop establishment is slower,
additional weeding may be required depending on the season.
37.       The crop would be lifted at full maturity and turned upside down for
drying. The dry crop (after about five days) would be stacked in the field to
be stripped when labor is available.
38.       Pre-harvest pests of groundnuts have not been a serious problem in
recent years but post-harvest fungal infestation is a matter of concern.
Toxic substances caused by certain strains of Aspergillus flavus (commonly
known as aflatoxin) are poisonous to domestic animals and are suspected to be
carcinogenic for human. Harvest and post-harvest handling will have to be
better controlled and improved to minimize Aspergillus infestation.
Other Crops
39.       Millet, tuber crops and cowpeas play a major role in the traditional
crop production of the project area. They are not subject to direct improvemernt



ANNEX 4
Page 14
under the project largely because they are usually outside the cotton-cereals
crop rotation and are produced in combination with other crops, and also
because recommendations on improved varieties (with the exception of cowpeas)
and fertilization are not yet available. These crops would, however, benefit
indirectly from project activities. Firstly, they would enjoy residual ferti-
lizer effects after the main crop rotation is shifted to other lands on the
farm, and secondly, and more important, through intensive research work on
IRAT stations. Varietal work on cowpeas has reached the point where two or
three varieties (58-162, 58-146 and Amoutchou 2) are at the stage of premul-
tiplication. Also, tuber crop research has made very good progress in the
course of the past two years and at least seven yam varieties, yielding more
than 25 t/ha, have been identified in experiments at Kitangbao station in
the Central region. The best were Kpassadjo, Prolific and Laboka; all
three producing over 30 t/ha. Work on cassava at Amoutchou station of the
Plateaux region is progressing equally well and at least four varieties
yielded over 20 t/ha, the best being 312-524 (30.8 t/ha) and Gbaze (25.4
t/ha). Response of tuber crops to fertilizer has been inconclusive so far,
but research is continuing. The linkage of the SOTOCO field trial unit with
IRAT would assure a constant monitoring of IRAT research work and would in
time signal the availability of new varieties and recommendations, which would
then become extension items for the field service.
D. Phasing, Yields and Production
40.       Project farmers would move through three development stages of
cotton and food crop production. Upon entering the project, farmers would be
in Stage I which would consist, apart from correctly applying basic crop
management, of proper pest control in cotton carried out through all the
critical weeks of the growing season. Food crops would have no improvement
yet and therefore Stage I would equal situation before project. Stage II
would include full pest control and recommended basic fertilizer applications
to cotton, and traditional varieties of food crops established at recommended
plant populations would follow cotton in rotation (para 9), benefitting from
residual effects of cotton fertilizer. To give farmers enough time for
mastering the labor consuming combination of fertilizer application and pest
control in the cotton crop and to safeguard the project against possible
delays in adoption rates of new techniques by farmers and/or negative effects
of unfavorable seasons, the farmers would be expected to remain in Stage II of
cotton for two years and only small yield increases would be anticipated
during this period. Stage III would have all technical qualities of Stage II
but nitrogen fertilizer would additionally be applied. Improved food crop
varieties supplied with modest rates of fertilizer would also be introduced.
A very careful adoption rate of improved sorghum has been planned for the Kara
and Savanna regions since there are sociological reasons making a slow re-
placement of the traditional sorghum varieties advisable (para 30). An
average farmer would reach Stage III in cotton after four years and in food
crops after five years of project participation. However, many farmers would
reach advanced development stages earlier than the above schedule because



ANNEX 4
Page 15
close to 12,000 ha were estimated to be in an improved stage of cotton techno-
logy in PY 0, i.e. before the start of the project (Table 12).
41.       A description of crop development stages and a summary table of
anticipated yields follows:
Crop               Development          Description
Stage
Cotton                 0                Traditional cultivation methods, no insecti-
cides, no fertilizer.
I                Improved variety, seed dressing, timeliness
of operations, correct spacing and plant
population, 18-20 1 insecticides applied in
6-8 treatments.
II              As I + 150 kg/ha (Plateau region) and 200)
kg/ha (other regions) of a NPKSB (15:25:]L5:5:1)
fertilizer compound applied at land preparation.
III             As II + 50 kg/ha urea topdressed at 40 days
after planting.
Maize                  I                Traditional cultivation, local variety.
II              Local variety following fertilized cotton
in rotation, timeliness of operations, correct
spacing and plant population.
III             As II but improved variety, seed dressing,
top dressing with 100 kg/ha urea.
Sorghum                I                As maize.
II              As maize.
III             As II, but improved variety, seed dressing,
top dressing with 50 kg/ha urea and appll-
cation of 100 kg/ha of raw phosphate on lands
assigned to groundnuts in the following
season, timeliness of operations, correct
spacing and plant population.
Groundnuts             I                Local variety, traditional cultivation.
II              As I.
III             Improved variety, seed dressing, follows
fertilized sorghum, timeliness of operations,
correct spacing and plant population.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
Anticipated Yields (kg/ha)
Stage
Crop             Region               0         I            II 1/          III
1. year 2. year
Cotton           Plateau             300       600       800     900       1,100
(seed cotton)   Central             300       600       750      850       1,050
Kara               200       350       700      800         900
Savanna            200       450       800      900       1,000
Maize            Plateau             700       700    1,200   1,200        1,800
(grain)          Central
Sorghum          Central
(grain)          Kara                500      500       800      800       1,300
Savanna
Groundnuts       Kara
400      400       400      400       1,000
(unshelled       Savanna
nuts)
1!   Crops would remain in stage II for 2 years (para 40).
42.       It has been assumed that the number of farmers growing cotton
under SOTOCO supervision would increase from 19,300 in PY 0 to 53,300 in PY 5,
and that the area planted with the G. hirsutum cotton type would increase from
11,700 to 31,700 ha. Starting in PY 2 improved techniques would be applied at
an increasing rate also to food crops. Phasing of farmers into the project is
summarized in the table below (details Tables 8-11):



ANNEX 4
Page 17
Number of farmers expected to participate in project
Stage I        II         III        Total         Incremental
PY 0         18,800         500       -          19,300            -
PY 1          9,100      13,600       400        23,100           3,800
PY 2          6,400     22,000      1,100        29,500           10,200
PY 3          6,300      15,400    14,000        35,700           16,400
PY 4          8,700      12,600    23,100        44,400           25,100
PY 5          8,900      14,900    29,500        53,300           34,000
PY 6             -       17,700    35,600        53,300           34,000
PY 7             -        8,900    44,400        53,300          34,000
PY 8-10          -          -      53,300        53,300           34,000
Incremental and total production is summarized in the table below
and details up to PY 10 are given in Table 12.
Production (t)                  PY 1         2          3         4        5
Cotton     Total (T)           10,200      14,160    18,940   23,940   29,210
Incremental (I)    3,480        7,440    12,050   17,220   22,490
Maize       (T)                19,270      20,790    23,380   24,340   25,500
(I)                  -270       1,250      3,840    4,800    5,960
Sorghum    (T)                 18,850      19,830    20,310   20,890   21,440
(I)                  -150         830      1,310    1,890    2,440
Groundnuts (T)                  1,810       1,780      2,710    3,040    3,310
(I)                   -40         -70        860    1,190    1,460



ANNEX 4
Page 18
E. Field Services and Training
43.       The project area would be divided into four regions corresponding
to the administrative division of the country. The Plateau region, which is
the most populated and has the highest production objectives, would have in
the southern part a subregion seated at Notse. The regions would have head-
quarters in regional capitals and would be headed by Regional Managers; and
the subregion in Notse, by an Assistant to the Regional Manager in Atakpame.
For the f-lrst three years of the project two Regional Managers would be
seconded from CFDT. Regionai administration would be divided in total into 14
sectors, aiready established, and subsectors and zones would increase during
project implementation from 60 to 65 and 465 to 725 respectively. In PY 5 one
Extension Agent (FA) would be responsible for about 75 farmers, who would be
growing about 45 ha of cotaon and a corresponding area of food crops, in
rotation with cotton, under SOTOCO supervision.  In the southern part of
the project area, farmer and crop concentration per EA would be higher; in the
northern part, where cotton plots are smaller and distance between farms
greater, the concent-ration per EA would be lighter.
44.       An important aspect of extension work would be the informal organi-
zation of farmers into groups, which would initially serve the purpose of
planting plots under the same crop in blocks to facilitate some of the field
operations, e.g. crop protection and ox-drawn cultivation. Later these
groups would progress into grower associations which would carry collective
responsibility for ordering inputs and repayment of credit and which would
own and operate equ'pneint, such as maize shellers, that would be too expen-
sive to be purchased by individuals. The project would provide training to
association leaders.
45.       Training of extension staff would be an essential link in achieving
project objectives. The SOTOCO training section, already reasonably well
established, would be f-urther reinforced by manpower and equipment.  The
section would be headed by a professional Senior Training Officer (STO)
who would have an Assistant Training Officer at HQ level.  At regional head-
quarters and at the Notse subregion office there would be in total five
regional training officers (TO). The training section would be equipped with
sufficient vehicles, with a library, photographic and audiovisual equipment,
and with a duplicat±ng machine and other materials required for teaching and
demonstrations.  Training would be basically carried out at two levels.  The
first of them would be mediurm-term training sessions for major extension items
(e.g. pest control) ard short-term sessions before all major field operations
(e.g. planting, gapping, weeding); these sessions would be organized by the STO
for senior staff, including Sector Chiefs, and by regional TOs for junior
staff and farmers. The second level would be continuous on-the-job training of
EAs in the field, which would be done by SOTOCO Sector and Subsector chiefs
and would be actively supported and supervised by training officers from
regionai and central HQ. The STO would establish close contacts with IRCT,
IRAT, IITA-Ibadan and the Ivory Coast cotton project for technical and organi-
zational cross-communication.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
DATA ON PROJECT FARM MODELS
REGION
DATA                                 PLATEAU      CENTRAL      KARA      SAVANNA
Average farm Size (ha)                  1.3 1/       2.4         1.2        3.9
Average crop composition
Cotton (ha)                  0.7          0.6         0.3        0.5
Cereals (ha)                 0.7          1.2         0.8        2.8
Cassava (ha)                 0.2           -           -          -
Yam and Others (ha)          0.4          0.6          -         0.1
Groundnuts (ha)               -            -          0.1        0.5
People per farm (No.)                   6.7          7.7         6.6       10.2
2/
ALE  per farm (No.)                     2.9          3.6         3.3        4.6
Cultivated per person (ha)              0.25         0.34        0.12       0.38
Cultivated per ALE (ha)                 0.59         0.72        0.24       0.84
1/   Cultivated 2.0 ha (bimodal rainfall area).
2/   ALE = Adult Labor Equivalent.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Available and Required Labor on Farm Models in PY5
Total Cropped Area (ha) and Total Available Labor (ALE) is in Plateau (2.0,2.9),
Central (2.4,3.6), Kara (1.2,3.3) and in Savanna Region (3.9,4.6)
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< 2.9
-J 3I6
< 3 2
3 .3
33
o < 3 
>2
4.6_
Z   10 20   30 10 20  30  10 20  30  1O 20  30  10 20   30  10 20   30  10 20   30 10 20   30 10 20   30 10 20  30  10 20   30  t0 20   30
i5        JAN .        FEB   |  MARCH  | APRIL   | MAY   | JUNE   | JULY    | AUG.                            SEPT.  |    OCT.  |      NOV.  | DEC.
gr:   ALE -.ADULT LABOR EOUIVALENTS
COTTON                    G CROUNDNU7S AND OTHERS
CEREALS                   YAM, CASSAVA AND Ol-HERS                                                                                 WrdLn    66
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdBn   66



ANNEX 4
Table 2
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
CROP LABOR REQUIREMENTS
(ALE days per ha; Stage III)
Crop:                         Cotton            Maize           Sorghum,   Ground-   Yam,
Millet     nuts       Cassava
Region:                   PL-/   CE,KA,SA       PL,CE           CE,KA,SA   KA,SA      PL,CE
Operation
Uprooting                10          10           -                -          -
Land preparation          -          20          15               15         15         80
Planting                  8           8           4                4         10         20
1. Weeding, ridging    18           20          18                18        20        130
Thinning                  3           3           3                3          -          -
Gapping                   3           3          -                 -          -
2. Weeding, ridging    12            18         12                12         15
3. Weeding, ridging    10            12          -                 -          -
Topdressing               2           2           2                2          -
Pest control              6           6           -                -          -
Bird scaring              -           -          -                10          -         -
Harvesting               40          40         25                20         25         70
Threshing and            10          10         25                 6         25          -
post harvest
manipulation
Total                   122         152        104                90        110       2100
NOTE:  1/   PL = Plateau, CE = Central, KA = Kara, SA = Savanna region



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
CROP PRODUCTION CHARACTERISTICS BY DEVELOPMENT STAGE
PLATEAU REGION (Farm Siæe 2.0 ha) 1/
CROp             Development  Area   Yield   Production Gross Input           Family             Net Return                   Value nf       Net cAsh income
(Price)           Stage    (ha)  (Kg/ha)    (Kg)        Value Costs       Labor   Per Farm    Per ALE   Per Hectare   on farm              after family
(CFAF) (CFA")  (ALE days)  (CFAF)          day         (CFAF)   consumption          consumption
2/        3/ 4/               (CFAF)                    (CFAF)      Per Farm   Per ALE day
_______ ____            _   _        ~ _. _-  _  _                      4/                       5/        (CFA(CFA)      CFAF) 4/
COTTON
(48 CFAF/kg)          °      0.7       300      210    10080        0        60        10080       168          14400           O         10080          168
I     0.7       600      420    20160    5600          70       14560       208          20800           0         14560          208
il     0.7       900      630    30240    7175          77       23065       300          32950           °         23065          300
III     0.7      1100      770    36960    7700          84       29260       348          41800           0         29260          348
MAIE
(27 CFAF/kg)           I     0.7       700      490    13230      380        45        12850       285           18360       9450          3400           75
II     0.7      1200      840    22680      380         56       22300       398          31860        9450         12850          230
III      0.7     1800    1260    34020    1750           73       32270       442           46100       9450         22820          313
CASSAVA   6/
,  (5 CFAF/kg)            I      0.2     6000    1200       6000        0        40         6000       150          30000       1750          4250          106
YAM AND OTHER  6/
(18 CFAF/kg)           I      0.4     7000    2800    50400         0         80       50400       630          126000      28440         21960          275
1/    For farm budget see Table 3b.
2/    Cotton Stage I = 20 1/ha insecticides (400 CFAF/litre, stage II   as stage I + 150 kg/ha
fertilizer (15 CFAF/kg), stage III - as stage II + 50 kg/ha urea (15 CFAF/kg). Maize stage I
and II = 20 kg/ha unimproved seed (27 CFAF/kg), stage III = improved seed - 20 kg/ha (50 CFAF/kg)
plus urea 100 kg/ha (15 CFAF/kg). Inputs costed including subsidy. Unsubsidised input costs are;
insecticide = 725 CFAF/litre, fertilizer and urea = 60 CFAF /kg.
3/    No hired labor required
4/    ALE = Adult Labor Equivalent.
5/    Annual family consumption of 350 kg cereals, 350 kg cassava, 1580 kg of yams and legumes.                                                             |3
6tdi
6/    No change in crop husbandry and yields anticipated.                                                                                                   D



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
FARM BUDGET BY FARM DEVELOPMENT YEAR
P]ITEAI REGION (Farm Size 2.0 ha) 1/, 2/
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                             WITH PROJECT
(1971 - 1991)
Farm DeveloPment Yesr For:<---------------
a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially                 O                   ;                                2                   3                    4                   5 and on
b) Farm where cotton is already grown                                          0                                1                   2                    3                   4 and on
Cropped Area by Technologv State (Ha):
Cotton 0                                                   0
Cotton I                                                                       0.7
Cotton Il                                                                                                       0.7                 0.7
Cotton III 0T7                                                                                                                                                               0.7
Maizel./ I                                                 0.95                 0.7                             0.7
Maize II                                                                                                                            0.7                  0.7
Maize TII                                                                                                                                                                    0.1
Cassava                                                    0.2                 0.2                              0.2                 0.2                  0.2                 0.2
Yams and Other                                             0.4                 0.4                              0.4                 0.4                  0.4                 0.4
Total Cropped Area                                         1.55                 2.0                             2.0                 2.0                  2.0                 2.0
Gross Value of Production (CFAF)                           74355               89790                            99870              109320               116040              127380
Cash Input Coets  (CFAF)                                 380                5980                             7555                7555                8080                 9450
Net Value of Farm Production  (CFAF)                       73975               83810                            92315              101765               107960              117930
Incremental Net Value of Farm Production   (CFAF)i
a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially                 -                9835                            18340               27790               33985                43955
b) Farm where cotton it  already grown                                         _                             8505               17955               24150                34120
Family Labor (ALE days) 4/                                   181                  235                             242                  253                 260                  277
Net Value of Farm Production per ALE day (CFAF)              409                  357                             381                  402                 415                  425
Value of on farm consumption  (CFAF)  5/                   306P8               39640                            39640                39640               39640               39640
Net Cash income after family consumption (CFAF)-
1) per Farm                                            34335               44170                           52675                62125               68320                78290
2) per ALE day                                           190                 188                              218                 245                  263                 283
4/  Average number of versons per farm family = 6.7.  Average number of Adult Labor
l/  For details by crop see Table 3a                                                          Equivalents (ALE's) per farm family = 2.9.  For seasonal labor requirements and
2/  Physical area - 1.3 ha, cropved area   2.0 ha (bimodal rainfall Pattern.                       iabiy  sec chart 16761
5/  Annual family consumption of 350 kg cereals, 350 kg cassava, 1580 kg yam»  and
3/  Maize follows cotton in rotation                                                           legumes, assuring about 2,300 calories per adult per day and equivalent nutritional
quantitics for children.  Fasily consumption assumed constant throughout fanm
development period.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
CROP PRODUCTION ChARACTERISTICS BY DEVELOPNENT STAGE
ÇENTRAL REGION (FARM SIZE 2.4 ha) 1/
----------- Net Return --V----                 Velue of on 5'    Net Cash Income after
(Pre              S evelopment    Ares -    Yield  Production     Gross Value    Input Costs -  P l  Cabot              P                                                      Fera Fi  il y Consumption
(Frice)           Stage        (h)       (gh)        <g                                                AIE days)        Per Farm       Per AIE day         Fer ha         Coosumption       Par Farm       Per AIE day
ba) (kg/ha)    (kg)  (CFAF)       (CFAF)                            (CFAF)          (CFAF)            (CFAF)           (CFAF)           (CFAF)           (CFAF)
(48to  CFFkg                       0.6      300          180              8640              O               66              8640              130             14400               O8640                            ¶50
(48 CFAF/kg)           I        0.6      600          360             179)80           4800              78             12480               160             20800              °             12480              160
Il      0.6       800         480              23040            6600              84             16440              195             27400               0            16440               195
III      0.6    1050           630             30240            7050              90             23190              257             38650               0            23190               257
Cereasa                    i        1.2       550         660              26400             720              74             25680              347             21400          16800              8880              120
(40 CFAF/kg)           il        1.2      725          870             34800             720              83             34080              410              28400         16800              17280              208
III      1.2     1000         1200             48000            1350              95             46650               491             38875          16800             29850              314
Yam and Othars   3/        I        0.6      7000        4200              75600               C             120             75600              630            126000         479110             27660              231
(18 CFAF/kg)
1/ For farm budget see Table 4b.
2/ Cotton Stage I = 20 1/ha  insecticides (400 CFAF/1), Stage Il =  as Stage I + 200 kg/ha fertilizer (15 CFAF/kg),
Stage III = as Stage Il + 50 kg/ha urea (15 CFAF/kg).  Cereals Stage I and II = 15 kg/ha seed (40 CFAF/kg). Stage III = as
Stage II + 70 kg/ha urea.
3/ Ns change ij crop husbandry and yield anticipated
4/ ALE = Adult Labor Equivalent
5/ Annual family consumption of 420 kg cereals, 210 kg legumes (at CFAF 50/kg) and 2080 kg yam  assures about 2300 cal per aduit
per day.  Legumes produced by intercropping with yam and cereals.
6/ Includes value of legumes (50 CFAF/kg).                                                                                                                                      0



TOGO                                               Annex 4
Table 4b
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
FARM BUDGET BY FARM DEVELOPMENT YEAR
CENTRAl REGION (FAPM SIZE 2.4 RA)
Without Project                           With Project
(1977-1991)
Farm Development Year tor:                                <-------
(a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially         0           1            2           3            4            5  and on
(b) Farm where cotton is already grown                          0            1           2            3            4  and on
Cropred Area by Stage of Technology (ha)
Cotton      0                                    0
Cotton      I                                                0.6
Cotton      II                                                            0.6         o.6
Cotton      III                                                                                    0.6          0.6
Cereals 2/  I                                    1.4         1.2          1.2
Cereals     II                                                                        1.2  5/      1.2
Cereals     III                                                                                                 1.2
Yam and Others                                   o.6         o.6          o.6         o.6          0.6          0.6
Total Cropped Area                               2.0         2.4          2.4         2.4          2.4          2.4
Gross Value of Production (CFAF)              106,400     119,280      125,040     133,440      140,640      153,840
Cash Input Costs (CFAF)                           840       5,520        7,320       7,320        7,770        8,400
Net Value of Farm Production (CFAF)           105,560     113,760      117,720     126,120      132,870      145,440
Incremental Net Value of Farm Production
(a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially    -            8,200      12,160       20,560       27,310      39,880
(b) Farm where cotton is already grown          -            -           3,960      12,360       19,110      31,680
Family Labor (ALE days)  31                       204         272          278          287         293          305
Net Value of Farm Production per ALE day          517         418          423          439         453          477
Value of On-Farm Consumption                   64,740      64,740       64,740      64,740       64,740       64,740
Net Cash Income after Family Consumption
Per Farm                                    40,820      49,020       52,980      61,380       68,130       80,700
Per ALE day                                    200         180          191         214          233          265
Il    For details by crops see Table 4 a.
2/    Cereals follow cotton in rotation
3/    Number of persons per farm family = 7.7
Number of Adult Labor Equivalents (ALE's) per farm family = 3.6.  For seasonal labor requirements and
availability see chart 16761.
4/    For break down of family consumption see table 4 a.
5/    Only 0.6 ha in improved stage due to cotton-food crop rotation.  Remainder remains in stage I throughout the
project.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
CROP PRODUCTION CHARACTERISTICS BY DEVELOPMENT STAGE
KARA REGION (FARM SIZE 1.2 ha) 1/
Net Return               Value of  4/ Net Cash Income after
2/   Family 3/                                       on Farm       Family Consumption
Crop _      Development       Area        Yield    Production  Gross Value  Input Costs  Labor         Per Farm   Per ALE day    Per ha Consumption    Per Farm    Per ALE day
(Price)      Stage          (ha)      (kg/ha)       (kg)        (CFAF)       (CFAF)      (ALE days) (CFAF)         (CFAF)      (CFAF)      (CFAF)        (CFAF)     (CFAF)
Cotton             o           0.3          200         60           2880           0           30         2880          96          9600          0           2880          96
(48 CFAF/kg)     I           0.3          350       105           5040        2400            36         2640          73         8800          0           2640           73
II         0.3          750        225          10800       3300            42         7500         179         25000          0           7500          179
III        0.3          900        270          12960       3530            45         9430         210         31430          0           9430          210
Sorghum            I           0.8          500       400          17600         350            48        17250         359         21560     17600               -           -
(44 CFAF/kg)    Il 5/       0.8         610        490          21560         350            53        21210        400         26510      21500              -            -
III 5/     0.8          800        640          28160         580           57        27580         484         34480      28160              -            -
Groundnuts         I           0.1          400        40            2000        500             9         1500         167         15000       2000              -            -
(50 CFAF/tg)    III         0.1        1000        100           5000         650            il        4350          395        43500       5000              -            -
1/  For farm budget see Table 5b
2/  Cotton Stage I = 20 1/ha insecticides (400 CFAF/1), Stage Il = as Stage I -+ 200 kg/ha fertilizer (15 CFAF/kg),
Stage III = as Stage Il + 50 kg/ha urea (15 CFAF/kg).  Cereals Stage  I and Il = 10 kg/ha seed (44 CFAF/kg),
Stage III = as Stage I + 50 kg/ha urea (15 CFAF/kg). Groundnuts Stage I = 100 kg/ha seed (50 CFAF/kg),
Stage III = as Stage I + 100 kg/ha rock phosphate (15 CFAF/kg).
3/  ALE = Adult Labor Equivalent                                                                                                        a
4/  Annual family consumption Stage O and I = 400 kg cereals and 40 kg legumes (about 840 cal) Stage II = 440 kg                        u  -
cereals and 40 kg legumes; Stage III = 640 kg cereals and 100 kg legumes (about 1640 cal).
5/   Weighted averages for 0.3 ha of improved sorghum with 0.5 ha of sorghum in Stage I.  Improved Sorghum follows
cotton in rotation.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
FARM BUDGET BY FARM DEVELOPMENT YEAR
KARA REGION (FARM SIZE 1.2 ha) 1/
WITHOUT PROJECT                                              WITI PROJECT
(1977 - 1991)
Faro Development Year for:                                                                   _
a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially                                     O              1                2                 3                  4               5               6 and on
b) Farm where cotton is already grown:                                                        O                1                 2                   3              4               5 and on
Cropped Area by Stage of Technology (ha)
Cotton O                                                                       O
Cotton I                                                                                      0.3
Cotton 11                                                                                                      0.3               0.3
Cotton III                                                                                                                                          0.3             0.3             0.3
Sorghum I  2/                                                                  0.8            0.8              0.8                  6
Sorghum Il                                                                                                                       O.8-/              0.8
Sorghum III                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.8
Groundnuts I                                                                   0.1            0.1              0.1               0.1                 0.1            0.1
Groundnuts III                                                                                                                                                                      0.1
Total Cropped Area                                                             0.9            1.2              1.2               1.2                 1.2            1.2             1.2
Gross Value uf Production  (CFAF)                                             19600          24640            30400            36360               36520          43120            46120
Cash Input Costs (CFAF)                                                         850           3250             4150             4150                4380           4610             4760
Net Value of Farta Production (CFAF)                                          18750          21390            26250            30210               32140           38510           41360
Incremental Net Value of Farm Production (CFAF)
a) Farm where no cotton is grown initially                                     -           2640             7500            11460               13390           19760           22610
b) Farm where cotton is already grown                                                          -            4860              8820              10750           17120           19970
Family Labor (ALE days)  3/                                                      57              87              93                98                 107            111              113
Net Value of Farm Production (per ALE day)                                      329             246             282               325                 328            347              366
Value of on Farm Consumption                                                  19600          19600            19600             23560               23560          30160           33160
Net Cash Income after Family Consumption   4/
Per Farm                                                                        -          1790             6650              6650               8580            8350            8200
Per ALE day                                                                     _            21               72                68                  80             75               73
1/   For details by crops see Table 5a.
2/    Sorghum follows cotton in rotation.
3/   No. of persons per farm family = 6.6; no. of Adult Labor Equivalents per farm family   3.3.
4/   For break down of family consumption see Table 5a.
/   Only 0.3 ha in imnproved stage due to cotton - food crop rotation.  Remainder remains in Stage I throughout the project.
Cr



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
CROP PRODUCTION ChARACTERIS'ICS BY DEVELOPMENT STAGE
SAVANNA REGION (FARM SIZE 3.9 NIA) 1/
Value of   Net cash tincomne
on farm    after family consumption
consumnpt ion
Net Return
Crop                               Development Area        Yield        Production  Gross          Input       Family        per            per          per                    per           per ALE
(Price)                          Stage      (ha)      (kg/ha)           (kg)    Value         Costa        Labor         farm        ALE day       hectare                  farm            day
(CFAF)       (CFAF)       (ALE days)  (CeAF)          (CFAF)      (CFAT)       (CFAF)      (CFAF)         (CFAF)
2/           3/ 4/                       4/                       5/
Cotton                                 0         0.5         200          100         4,800            0          50         4,800           96         9,600           0       4,800         96
(48 CFAF/kg)                       I        0.5         450           225        10,800       4,000           60         6,800          113       13,600           0        6,800        113
II       0.5         850          425        20,400        5,500           70       14,900          213        29,800           0      14,900        213
III      0.5      1,000           500        24,000        5,875           75       18,125          242        36,250           0      18,125        242
Sorghum                                I         2.8         500        1,400        51,800        1,040         168        50,760          302        18,130     51,800         -            -
(37 CPAF/kg)                       II       2.8         555         1,555       57,540        1,040          176        56,500          321       20,180      55,500        1,000          6
6/     III      2.8         645         1,810       66,970        1,415          183        65,555          358       23,410      59,200        6,350         35
Groundnuts                              I        0.5         400           200       10,000        2,500           43        7,500          174        15,000       8,000         -           -
(50 CFAF/kg)                      III      0.5       1,000           500        25,000       3,250           55        21,750          395       43,500      11,500       10,250        186
Others   7/                             I        0.1         400            40        1,200          100            6         1,100         183        11,000       1,200         -           -
(30 CFAF/kg)
1/    See table 6 b for farm budget and table 6 c for returns from work oxen.
2/    Cotton stage I = 20 1/ha insecticide (400 CFAF/1), stage II = as stage I + 200 kg/ha fertilizer (15 CFAF/kg), stage III as stage II + 50 kg/ha urea (15 CFAF/kg).  Sorghum                          III
stages I and II = 10 kg/ha seed (37 CFAF/kg), stage III = 10 kg/ha improved seed (37 CFAF/kg) + 50 kg/ha urea.  Groundnuts stage I = 100 kg/ha seed (50 CFAF/kg), III = 100 kg/ha
improved seed (50 CFAF/kg + 100 kg/ha rock phosphate (15 CFAF/kg).  Seed for "other" crope  valued at CFAF 1,000/ha.
3/   No hired labor required.
4/   ALE = Adult labor equivalent
5/    Annual family consumption in stages 0, I and II consiste of 1,400 kg cereals, 160 kg of groundnuts and 40 kg of legumes and tubers providing about 2,100 calories per adult per
day. In stage III consumiption rises to 1,600 kg cereals, 230 kg groundnuts and 40 kg legumes and tubers providing about 2,500 calories per adult per day.
6/    Only 0.5 ha of sorghum in stage III due to cotton-food crop rotations.  Yields froa  full stage III production are 1,300 kgs/ha providing a net return after subtracting cash
input coste of 46,980 CFAP/ha.
7/    No change  in crop huabandry and yields anticipated.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT IN COTTON ARRAS
FABM BUDGET BY FARM DEVEIOPMMEN YEAR
SAVANNA REGION (FAHM SIZE 3.9 ha) 1/ 2/
wrITOur PROiECT                                                                       wrnH PROJECT
(1977    _ 1991)
Faro Development Year For:                                                               <---------------------_
a) Farm where na cotton is grown initially                                O                   I                                 2                   3                  4                    5                 6 and on
b) Farm where cotton is already grown                                                         O                                 1                   2                  3                    4                  5 and on
Cropped Area by Technology State (Ha)
Cotton O                                                                  o
Cotton I                                                                                      0.5
Cotton II                                                                                                                       0.5                 0.5
Cotton III                                                                                                                                                             0.5                  0.5                0.5
Sorghum I   3/                                                            3.0                 2.8                               2.8
Sorghum II                                                                                                                                          2.8                2.8
Sorghum III                                                                                                                                                                                 2.8                2.8
Groundnuts I                                                              0.6                 0.5                               0.5                  0.5               0.5                  0.5
Groundnuts III                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5
Others                                                                    0.1                 0.1                               0.1                 0.1                0.1                  0.1                0.1
Total Cropped Area                                                              3.7                3.9                                3.9                 3.9               3.9                   3.9               3.9
Gross Value of Ferm Production                                             68700               73800                             83400               89140              92740               102170             117170
Cash Input Coste                                                            4210                7640                              9140                9140               9515                 9890              10640
Net Value of Farm  Production                                              64490               66160                             74260               80000              83225                92980             106530
Incremental Net Value of Farm Production
a) Farm  where no cotton is grown initially                               -                1670                    -         9770               15510              18735                27790             42040
t    b) Farm where cotton is already grown                                     -                   -                              8100               13840              17065                26120             40370
Family Labor (ALE days)                                                       238                277                                287                295                300                  307                319
Net Value of Farm Production per ALE day                                     271                 239                                259                271                277                  301                334
Value of on farm consumption  4/                                           61000               61000                             61000               64700              64700                68400              71900
Net Cash Income after family consumption
a) Per Farm                                                            3490                5160                             13260               15300              18525                23880              34630
b) Per ALE day                                                           15                  19                                46                  52                 62                   78                108
-/ For details by crop see Table 6a.  For returns from work oxen see Table 6c.
2/ Average number of persons per farm family = 10.2.  Average number of Adult Labor equivalents (ALE's) per farm  family                       ce
= 4.6. For seasonal labor requirements and availability see chart 16761.
3/ 0.5 ha of sorghum follows cotton in rotation, rest of sorghum area remains in stage I.
4/ See Note 5 of Table 6a.



A..e. 4
TOGO
RURAl.L -EVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SAVANNA REGION.  INCREHENTAL RETURNS TO STAGE III FARMERS FROM POSSESSlON OF WORK  OXES  1/
TROUt ~~~~~-------                    WOT RK OXEN           -----------
WORX ROXEN                  (eIt Year  (2nd YTar of (3rd - 7th (8th - 15th
(All Ye..s)                 cf owser-   esership)  YOser of          YVerr  f
shfp)                      s.ueruhtp) oe...ership)
Crop Areas and Deveiopepnt Stage (Ra)
CotIon  (Stage  III)                                                                                  0.5                         1.0            1.0         1.0        1.0
Sorghos  (Stage 1)                                                                                    2.3                         2.3            1.5         1.3        1.3
(Stage 111)                                                                                  0.5                         0,5           1.0          1.0        1.0
Groundntut  (Stage  III)                                                                              0.5                        0o5             0.5         I.0        1.0
Others  (Stage I)                                                                                     0.1                         0.1            0.1         0.1        0.1
Total Area                                                                                            3.9                         44            4.4          44         44
Gfrou  Velue of Fars Productios  (CFAF)  2/                                                         117170                      144810        155600       171350    171350
Revenues fcom Hiro of Sx Teas  Services ta Other Fercera 3/                                              -                       15000         15000        15000      15000
Total Cross Revenues                                                                                117170                      155ô00        170600      186350    186350
C-sts cf Work fuen:
Equfipmet Acortizatioc   4  5/ 5                                                                                              19500         19500       19500           -
Oqul pcee Senc    ...e.ace 6/-                                                                                                 2500          2500        2500        4000
Scpplcoostery FPed 7/                                                                                                         3600           3600        3600        3600
Total Caste cf Work OSen 8/                                                                                                  25600          25600       25600        7600
S...... l Input Costa  2/ 9/                                                                        10640                       16511          16886       19951       19951
Tatal Iuput Casts                                                                                    10640                       42111         42486        45551      27551
NSt Volas af FPre Activities                                                                        106530                      113689        128114       140799    158799
Family Labur Requireynts (AIE deys) 10/
o> Su Oe. FParc                                                                                     319                         247           251          268        268
b) os ou Teas  Hire Servîcos  3/                                                                      -                          25            25           25         25
Total FPaily Lahor                                                                              319                         272            276         293         293
Net Velue of Fare Activities per ALE day                                                               334                         418            464         485        541
Value of on FPao  Cossucptioe                                                                        71900                       71900         71900        71900      71900
Net Cash Incoue after Facily Consuption
a> Par FPrm                                                                                      34630                       41790          56210       68900       86900
b) Per ALE 3ay                                                                                      108                         154           204          235        296
Icremental Fermer Retorns from owning Work Oxen                                                         -                        7160         21580       34270       52270
Riuk Pactor (Total Input Coute divided by Net Cash Incopx cfter
Family Consumption)                                                                       0.31                        1.01          0.75        0.66        0.32
1/   lIloutretive of ose fe.sîble develop-.t pss.ibility  fer a fOre cf 4 heetares.  Farers *elected for the  supply cf vork ..en implecents and training wouId be progresfsiv
ftrmors *lready et crop development stage III (sterting in Praject YOer 3) and -.ald tend te be lrg-r thac the ferm pra..uted hets vith c rorrespondingly grester retorn
froc the ase of vork osen.  The icremest.1 tet-r9s presseted in this table for the fermer etarting vith 4 hectares are considered conservatîve in that farm  area c-uld
increase by cors thsc 0.5 heceees  oithout ceeticg Inbor casrete, and ecplo.yact psstibilitSsa for hiring sat ou tees services may also be greater.
2/   Yiolds and .eas.cal uinpt spplicstitos  par hectare as.ecd to remail  the  eame
3/   Ploughing of 1 hectare at CFPAF 5,000/ha ad 5 ouc tce  davs/ha, and transport sroticos at CPAF 10,000 and 20 ou teec days.
4/   MlIti-purpose tool bar, os -art and yolk and cheins - parchese prices CFAF 30,000, 60,000 and 5,000 respsctively msking CFAF 95,000.  Suppliîd oc credit at IOY, inter-st
=nd ropcid cver 7 yTars including first y.e. of ewesrship et constant ennuities = 19,500/pet ansum for first 7 yeers.
5/   Weighted averge life cf equipcsnt estitctsd at 15 years.  With proper maintenaece the cart and tool bar can be expected to last longer.
'/   Matily r-plrecem nte  f corda, yclk and ceaina   and ploughshares.  Estiîcted et average  of CFAF 2500 per sncam in first 7 years and CFAP 4000 per annu.  there.fter.
7/   120 kg per eniO1 cf low grade cereele et CFAF 15/kg.
i/   Work oxn vill oly bh  aced by  fartere chat already posase. a herd.  Animl huhbendry is poor and cettlî  are gseerally cuiled vell pest the optimum  -arketiOg aga.
Although draft animals may tend to be culled et a slightly core ad-nced ege thas norcal, .cy decreses in meat quallty voald be ccmpecseted by the iecroased  aeight
of the ecical
9/   Sed, PertîlOoer and Pesticide.
10/   ALE - Adult Lahbr Eqcialent.   All  labor inputs are family Sabor.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SUMMARY OF NET FARMER RETURNS WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT BY REGION  I/
PLATEAU  REGION                         CENTRAL  REGION                             KARA REGION                          SAVANNA REGION
Withour ProJect        With Project       Without Project        bith Project   Wthout Pro2 ect   With Project |  Without Project              WtPject
(N     Grava                        (No         (Grave                     W                                       (N.         (Gav            2
Cotton)      Cotton)                       Cotton)    Cotton)                      Cotton)    Cotton)                     Cotton)    Cottono
Average Farm Size (Cropped Area)                                 1.55           2.0         2.0            2.0         2.4           2.4            0.9         1.2          1.2          3.7          3,9          3.9
Average Persons per Farm                                         6.7            6.7         6.7        1  7.7          7.7           7.7            6.6         6.6          6.6        10.2          10.2         10.2
Average ALE's per Farm  3/                                       2.9            2.9         2.9            3.6         3.6           3.6            3.3         3.3          3.3         4.6           4.6          4.6
Gross Value of Farm Production (CFAF'000)                       74.3           89.8       127.4         106.4        119.3         153.8          19.6         24.6         46.1        68.7          73.8        117.2
Cost of Purchased Inputs  (CFAF'000)  4/                         0.4            6.0         9.4           0.8          5.5           8.4           0.8          3.2          4.8         4.2           7.6         10.6
Net Value of Farrm Production (CFAF'000)                        74.0           83.8       117.9         105.6        113.8         145.4           18.7        21.4         41.4        64.5          66.2        106.5
Net Cash Income (CFAF'000)  5/                                  34.3           44.2        78.3          40.8         49.0          80.7            -  7/       1.8          8.2          3.5          5.2         34.6
ALE days Required                                              181            235         277           204          272           305             57          87          113          238          277          319
Net Value of Farm Production per ALE day  (CFAF)               410            360         430           520          420           480           330          250          370          270          240          330
Net Cash Income Per ALE day (CFAF)                             190            190         280           200          180           270              -  7/       -  7/       70           15           20          110
Per Capita Income (CFAF '000)  6/                               11.0           12.5        17.6           13.7        14.8          18.9            2.8         3.2          6.3          6.3          6.5         10.4
1/   Without project =  years I to 15   ln absence of Prsject.  With project figures are for farmers who have fully adopted the project technology.  Developaent to this leveI takes belveen 4 to
6 years. For full details by region see Tables 3 to 6.
2/   See Table 6c for farmer returnes from using work oxen in the Savanna.
3/  ALE = Adult Labor Equivalent.
4/   Seed, pesticide and fertilizer.
5/   i.e. After subtracting on farm consumption of food crops.  On farm consumption of food crops is estimated to remain about constant in the  Plateau  and Central  regbons and to increase  lightly
in the Kara and Savanna regions.
6/   Includes value of on farm consumption of food crops.
7/  Negligible.



Annex 4
Table 8
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECTIONS 0F FARMERS, CROP AREAS AND CROP PRODUCTION
PILATEAU  REGION -/, 2/, 5/
YEAR                        SUMBERS OF FARMERS         CROP AREAS (Ha )           TOTAL PRODUCTION       INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
(Tons)                   (Tons)
Cotton         Maize       Cotton        Maize      Cotton         Maize       Cotton          Maize
WITHOUT PROJECT (1977 and on) 3/
Stage I (without cotton) 4/                (15700)        15700            -         14915            -       10440
Stage I  (with cotton)                       9700         10000         6790          7000        4074         4900
Stage Il ( vith cotton)                        300            -          210             -          189            -
Stage III (vith cotton)                          -                   -            -                   -            -
Total                                       25700         25700         7000         21915        4263         15340
WITN PROJECT
1977 Stage I (vithout cotton)                    (14300)       14300             -         13585           -         9509
Stage I (with cotton)                        6400         11400         4480          7980        2688          5586
Stage Il (with cotton)                       4700             -         3290              -       2961             -
Stage III (with cotton)                        300            -          210              -        231             -
Total                                        25700        25700         7980         21565        5880         15095         1617         -245
1978 Stage  I (without cotton)                   (11400)       11400             -        10830            -         7581
Stage I (with cotton)                        2900          9300         2030          6510        1218         4557
Stage II (with cotton)                      10800          5000         7560          3500        6804         4200
Stage III (with cotton)                        600            -          420              -        462             -
Total                                        25700        25700        10010         20840        8484         16338         4221          998
1979 Stage I (without cotton)                     (8600)        8600            -           8170           -         5719
Stage I (wsth cotton)                         2800         5700         1960          3990        1176          2793
Stage Il (with cotton)                       9300         10000         6510          7000        5859          8400
Stage III (with cotton)                       5000         1400         3500           980        3850          1764
Total                                        25700        25700        11970         20140       10885         18676         6622         3336
1980 Stage I (without cotton)                     (4300)        4300            -           4085           -         2859
Stage I (with cotton)                        4300          7100         3010          4970        1806          3479
Stage Il (with cotton)                       5700         11400         3990          7980        3591          9576
Stage III (with cotton)                     11400          2900         7980          2030        8778          3654
Total                                        25700        25700        14980         19065       14175         19568         9912         4228
1981 Stage I (without cotton)                         -             -            -             -
Stage I (with cotton)                        4300          8500         3010          5950        1806         4165
Stage II (with cotton)                        7100        12900         4970          9030        4473        10836
Stage III (with cotton)                     14300          4300        10010          3010       11011         5418
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       17290         20419        13027         5079
1982 Stage I (without cotton)                         -             -                   -            -                  -
Stage I (with cotton)                            -         4300            -          3010            -         2107
Stage II (with cotton)                        8600        15700         6020         10990        5418        13188
Stage III (with cotton)                     17100          5700        11970          3990       13167          7182
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       18585        22477         14322         7137
1983 Stage I (without cotton)                         -             -            _                                      -
Stage I (with cotton)                            -            -            -             -            -            -
Stage II (with cotton)                       4300         18600         3010         13020        2709        15624
Stage III (with cotton)                     21400          7100        14980          4970       16478         8946
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       19187        24570         14924         9230
1984 Stage I (without cotton)                         -             --                         -           -            -
Stage I (with cotton)                            -            -            _                                       -
Stage II (with cotton)                           -        17200            -         12040           -        14448
Stage III (with cotton)                     25700          8500        17990          5950       19789        10710
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       19789        25158         15526         9818
1985 Stage I (without cotton)                         -             --                                     -            -
Stage I (with cotton)                            -            -            _                                       -
Stage II (with cotton)                           -        15700            -         10990           -        13188
Stage III (with cotton)                     25700         10000        17990          7000       19789        12600
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       19789        25788        15526         10448
1986 Stage I (without cotton)                         -            -      -             -            -                  -
Stage I (with cotton)                            -            -            _                                       -
Stage Il (with cotton)                           -        14300            -         10010           -        12012
Stage III (with cotton)                     25700         11400        17990          7980       19789        14364
Total                                        25700        25700        17990         17990       19789        26376        15526         11036
1/   Projected progression through development stages by farmers is based on the farm budget for a typical farmer in the Plateau  region as
shown ln Table 3b, with minor aodifications to reflect constraints on adoption rates such as availability of improved seeds and
capacity of project services.
2/   Average crop areas per farm (ha): cotton = 0.7; maaze = 0.95 for farmers not growcng cotton, 0 7 for farsers growing cotton.  Average
yields (kgs/ha)- cotton I = 600, Il = 900, III = 1100; miaze I = 700, II = 1200, III = 1800 (See Tables 3a and 3b)
3/   Assumed static development in absence of project.  See para. 7 02.
4/   Figures in parentheses refer to farmers who grow food crops only.
5/   Cassava, Yams and various minor food crops are also grown.  Areas and yîelds for these crops are assumed to remain the same  and are not
presented here.  For the 25,700 farmers, crop areas and production are  cassava = 5100 ha and 30,000 tons, yams and other = 10,300 ha
and 72,000 tons.  Production iS substantially for family co.su.ption (See Table 3a).



Anein6
RURAL DOPELOPMENT  PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECTIONS OP PARM«RS. CROP ARRAS ANO CR0OP PRODUCTION
CElNTRAL RW70Nl !/, Z_/
NLMBERS OFP  ARMERS              _          CROP AR5AS (Ka)                     TOTAL PRODUCTION (tonl                  INCREMENTAL PRODUCI'ION
Totton       MRis.e         Socrh..    Cotton           aise       Sorghur      Coaton         Mais.         Sorghum    Cotton         MRis.         Sorghuo
WITHOUT PRORECT 3/
4/-
1977 and on   StaRe I <farr. oith no cotton)             (9000)         3000         6000             -          4200         R400             -          2940          4200
Stage I <farter. *ith totton)             4100          1500          2800         2460           1900        3360          1476           1260         160
Stage Il            "                      200             -             -          120              -            -           96              -
St.g. 111                                                -                    -          .           .            .
Total                                    13300          4500          88UU         2580           6000       11760          1572          4200          58S0
WITI PROJECT
1977           Stage 1 (farru-. ntth on cotton)         (<300)          2800         5500             -           3920        7700             -          2744          3850
Orage I (farter. vith cntton)              700          1700          5300          420           2040        3960           252           1428         1980
Sta8- Il            "                     4200             -             -         2520              -            -         2016              -             -
Stage 111           *                       100            -             -           60              -            -           63
Total                                    13300          4500          8R00         3000           5960       11660          2331           4177         5830           759          -76            -50
1978           St.g. O (faotesr oith no tonn)ol          (6600)         2000         4600             -           2800        6440             -           1960         3270
Stage 1 <(far-ten   tth cottan)           1700          1200          1200         1020           1440        1440           612           1008           720
Otage Il            '                     4500          1300          3000         2700      5/  1560    5/ 3600            2160           1462          2340
Stage 10            "                       500            -             -          300              -            -          315              -
Total                                    13300          450'          800          4O 2-0         5800       11480          3087           4450          6280         1515          250            400
1979           Stage 1 (farinn  nith ta catton)          (5000)         1700          3300             -          2380        4620             -           1666         2310
Otage O (faror-  nith cottoo)             1700          1100          2100         1020           1320        2520           612            924         1260
Stage 11            "                     2300          1200          2700         1380           1440        3240          1104           1368          7106
Stage 111                                 4300           500           700         2580    5/    600    5/  840             2709            750           756
Tcta1                                    13300          4500          88 00   4980                57         11220          -42l3          4708          6432         2853          508            552
1980           Stage O (farter-.  ith no nottan)         (2500)          600         1900              -           840        2660             -            588         1330
Stage I (farinen-  ftth cottan)           2500          1700          2400         1500           2040        2880           900           1428          1440
Staga Il                                   3300         1500          3300         1980)          1800        3960          1584           1710          7574
StoRe Ill                                 5000           700          1200        _3000            040        1440          3150           1050          1296
Toral                                    13300          4500          8800         6480           5520       10940         T5634           4776          6640         4067          576            760
1981           Stage I (fartons oith no conton)               -            -             -                           -            -            -              -             -
Stage I (far. ra vith cotton)             2500          1600          3300         1500           1920        3960           900           1344          1980
Stage U1            *                     4100          1700          3800         2460           2040        4560          1968           1938          2964
Stage 111                                 6700          1200          1700         4020           1440        2040          4221           1800          1836
Total                                    13300          4500          8800         7980           5400       10560          7089           5082          6780         5517          887            900
1982           Stage O (farent vith no cetton)                -            -             -                           -            -            -              -             -
Stage I <(fart-t vth tonton)                  -          800          1600             -           960        1920             -            672           960
Stage 11                                  5000          2000          5000         3000           2400        6000          2400           2280          3900
Otage 0I0                                 8300          1700          2200         4980           2040        2640          5229           2550          2376
Total                                    13300          4500          8800         7980           5400       10560          7629           5502          7236         6057         1302           1356
1983           Stage I (farra cith ne cotto-)                                                                                                   -             -             -
Stage I (f.tra vith cotto)                    -            -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -
Stage Il                                  2500          2300          6100         1500           2760        7320          1200           2622         4758
Stage III          "                     10800          2200          2700         6480           2640        3240          6804           3300          2916
Total                                    13300          4500          8800         7980           5400       10560          8004           5922          7674         6432         1727           1794
1984           Stag. O (f.rter, vith ne cottoo)               -                                        -             -            -            -              -             -
Stage I (fartero oith cotton)                              -             -                                                                                  -
Stage 11                                      -         1800          5700             -          2160        6840              -          2052          4446
Stage III                                13300          2700          3100         7980           3240         3720         8379           4050          3348
Total                                    13300          4500          8800          7980          5400        10560         8379           6102          7794         6007         1902           1914
1985           Stage O (fartera oith no cottoo)                  -         _                                         -            -            -              -             -
Stage O (fortcr0 ,eth cottot)                 -            -             -             -             -                                        -
Otage 11           "                          -         1300          5200             -          1560        6240              -          1482          4056
Stage III                                13300          3200          3600         7980           3840        4320          8379           4800          3888
Total                                    13300          4500          8800         7980           5400       10560          0379           6282          7944           6807       7002           2064
1906           StoSe I                hfararn ntt   o cotton)  -           -             -             -             -            ---
stage I (f<-rt   oith contoa)                                                   -                           -            -                     -            -
Stage 11            '                         -          800          4700             -           960         5640             -           912          3666
Stage 01I          "                     13300          3700          4100         7980           4440        4920          8379           5550          4428
Total                                    13300          4500          8800          798C          5400        10560         8379           6462          8094          6807        7267           7214
1/   Pro3cnted pregeeoîoe th-ough dovelopnnt etagea by fartera iO  bated on the fart btdget for o typi-al f-rter in the  Central  region a. ohont in  Tabla 4, with tieor
oodifitat.on. to  -efl-tt c...trinto  on adoption rat-o   -oth te avtilobility of irproved eceds and rapttitty    f projct tereto..
2/   A-r.g.  -rop  rcea  p-r fart (ha)   tonton   O 6, c-reale - I 4 for fartr r ithout cotton, 1 2 f0r fartn    ith ct tton   Mate- is gront  ic th. south of the regon
-grgt O 14e norbh   Aboot             th                                       s thOre f the foe    On tht rgtn gn   tot  ath    a no    th.   nt ing to thirdo gnou  gorghu
Ancrage yIeldn (kS/ha)   _taton otage I  600, il - 800, 111 - 1050, nie.e otage t   700, II - 950. 000 = 1250,  -orghun  tago I - 500  II - 650, I1I  - 900
(Se- Table 4a)
Aboot 0 6 ha of Ys'o      d anA othon cropa   are  solt  gr-tn by O typical fart er, ainly f0r en fart ronsption   Prodoction of th..e  cropn (about 56,000 ton.) it not
aotitrpeted to be offected by the projeet
3/   Aootd etatit develapoent iO  aboe.ce of pro3jat   sie  para  7 02
4/   Figore-  n  parenth..a. nfor ta fara.ns vbo h rn, food crape only
5/   Only  halt  f enca  ho-ncore toin d.nleptnt otagen Il or 111   Rcaaindor ie iO  atago O due te conotraint. of -otton rotation



Anses 4
Table 50
TOGO
RURAL DE7RLOPFENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECTIONS OF FARMERS. CROP AREAS AND CROP PRODUCTION
RANA  NEGION   1/ 2/
YEAR                             NUMBERS OF FARNERS:                       CROP AREAS (Na.)                    TOTAL PRODUCTION (Tont)                 INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION (Tons)
Cotton       SarRhma        Groundnuta    Cotton    Sorghuo         Gr maar    Cotton           Sorghs       Gr.o.ndnuts   Carton         Sarh       G.o.Uroundnuta
WITHOUT PROJECT Stage I (without cat) (5300)4/         5300          300              -        4240           530            -          2120           212
(1977 aod onl        Stage I (vith catton)  2000       2000         2000            600        1600          200           210           800            80
Stage SI  "      "                                    -              -           - _  _                                   - _
Stage 11"   "              -             -            -              _           _            -             -             _             _
Total                   7300         7300          7300           600        5840           730          210           2920           292
WITH PROJECT    Stage I (vithaut rot)(4600)            4600         4600              -        3680           460             -          1840          184
1977             Stage I (with catton) 1000            2700         2700            300        2160           270          105          1080           108
Stage S11,l             1700             -            -           510            -            -          382              -             -
Stage 111 "      "         -             -            -              -           _            -
Total                   7300         7300          7300           S10         5840          730          487           2920           292           277             0           0
Stage I (vithoct .ct)(3600)          3600         3600              -        2860           360            -           14-40         144
1970             StageI (with cattma) 1000             2000         3700            300        1600           370          15800                       14N
Stge Il  " "            2700         1700             -           810         1360            -          607            830             -
Sr.,go III1:     :         -             -_           -       I            -            -            -                    -             -           502           150           O
Total                   7300         7             7300          1110         5640          730           712          3070           292
StageI (withaot cat)(2600)           2600          2600             -        2080           260            -           1040          104
1979             Stage I (ith carton) 1000            2200          3700           300         1760          370          105                         146
Stage SI   '      '    2000          2300             -           600        1840             -          450           1122             -
Stage IlS""             1700          200          1000           510          160          100          459            128           100
Total                   7300         7300          7300          1410         5840          730         1014           3170           352           804           250          60
Stage I (wtthoat rat)(1300)          1300         1300              -        1040           130            -            520           52
1980             Stage I (vith rattan) 1300            2300         4000            390        1840          400           136           920           160
Stage SI  "      "      2000         2700             -           600        2160             0          450           1318             -
Staga  SOI" "           2700         1000          2000           810          800          200          729            640          200
Total                   7300         7300          7300       i  1800        5640           730         1315           3398          412           1105           478         120
Stage S (vithaut cat.)   -               -            -             -            -            -            -
1901             Stage  I(with cottan) 1300            2600         4300            390        2080           430          136           1040          172
Stage 11  "        "    2300         3000             -         1690          2400            -           517          1464             -
Staga 111 "        "    3700         1700          3000         l1110        1360           300           999          1088          300
7300         7300         7300           2190        5840           730         1652           3592          472           1442          672          180
Stage I (vithaut cot)    -               -            -             -            -            -             -             _            _
1982             Staga I (vith tottaa)    -            1300         3300              -        1040           330             -           520          132
Staga II  "      "      2700         3700             -           810        2960             -          607           1806             -
Stage S11 "      "      4600         2300         4000           1380        1840           400         1242           1472          400
Total                   7300         7300          7300          2190         5840          730         1849           3798           532          1639           878         740
Stage I (vithoat rot)    -               -            -             -            _
1983             Stage  I(with nattas)    -                -        2300              -            -          230             -             -            92
Stage 11  "      "      1300         4300             -           390         3440            -           292          2098             -
Stage 111       0       6000         3000          5000       E  1800         2400          500         1620           1920           SUS
Total                   7300         7300          7300          2190         5640          730         1912           4016           592          1702          1098         300
Stage I (vithant cot)    -               -            -              -           -            -
1984             Stage I (vith  ortton)    -              -         1300              -            -          130             _             -           52
stage SI  "                -         3700             -              -        2960            -             -          1806             -
Stage III "       "     7300         3600          6000          2190         2880          600          1971          2304           600
Tocal                   7300         7300          7300          2190         5840.         730          1971          4110           652          1761          1190         360
Stage I (wthaat rat)    -                -            -              -           -----
1985              Stage I (vith outtoa)    -               -          300                                      30             -             -            12
Staga II  "       "        -         3000             -              -        2400            -             -          1464             -
Stage II1  "      "     7300         4300          7000          2190         3440          700         1971           2752           700
Total                   7300         7300          7300          2190         5840          730          1971          4216           712          1761          1296         420
Stage S (withot t rat)    -              -            -              -           -            -             -             -             _
1986             Stage I (vith Cntton)    -                -            -              -           -                          -
Stage SI   "      "        -         2300             -              -        1840            -             -          1122             -
Stage Iil  "      "     7300         5000          7300          2190         4000          730          1971          3200           730
Total                   7300         7300          7300          2190         5640          730          1971          4322           730          1761          1402         438
i
1/    Projected progca .sion through denvlopmnt stages by farnera la  baaad ao  the fana budget for a typical farmr in  th. tara ragion as aho.o in Table 5b,  ith
minor andifltatioto to ref- ctr constraints on adoption rates sucb as aa ilability af ipreoed seeds and capaoity of project services.
2/    Avnrage trop greas per fan : cotton- 0.3 ha, sorghos -  0.8 ha, groondonta * 0.1 ha.  Average yield5 (kgs) per hectare: tortoo I = 350. 11 - 750. III = 9001
sorghos I - 500  II - 610,  III - 800. Groundnuts S   400, SI - 1000.  Ooly 0.3 ha of sorghun la imprvand (otogea 1l or III) due to retatiooal r.ontrainto
pronided by cototo  area.  Stage II and III sorghbm arca and production figores rafer ta encire sorghos  trop area and production gro-n  by sorghuo otage II
anA 111 faroers.  Anerage  -nrghuo yboldslba i  staga I1 and 111 are torreapandingly oeighted (See note 5 of Table Sa).
3/    Assuoed static developmeot Or oabecea of projeot.   See para 7.02.
4/    Flgorco in paranthese  refer ta farters rvh  gr.. food crope only.



A.nes 4
Table Il
TOGO
RURAL DZVELOPMENT PROJRCT IN COTTON ARMAS
SAVANNA RUGION  1/  2/. 3/
YYAR                              NUM3        ERS OF PARMERS                            CROP AREAS (hS)                     TOTAL PRODUCTION (tons.                  INCRERMNTAL PRODUCTION (tons)
Cotton       S.rRhoh    Oroundnute   Cotton          Sorghum      Grouadnuta   Cotton          So-Rho u    lroundnuta   Cotton          Scorha=   leoundoute
WITOUT PROJECT
(1977 and on) 3/ Stage O (farire olthout cotton)           (4000) 4/       4000        4000               -        12000        2400               -         6000          960
Stage I (farner. with tRttoR)            3000           3000         3000          1500          6400        1500            675          4200           600
Stage UU            "                                                              .   _ -
Total                                     7000          7000         7000          1300         20400        3900            675         10200          1560
WITII PROJECT
1977               Stage 1 (farinera  ithout cotRtn)    (3000)             3000         3000              -         9000         1600             -          4500           720
Stage O  (farne r- vith cotton)          1000           4000        4000             300        11200        2000           225           5600           800
Stage Il                                  3 3000            -           -          1300             -            -         1275              _             -
Totl7                                     7000          7000         700              UW        20200         3800         1300          10100          1520           825         -100          -40
1978               Stage O (fariera oithoat cotton)         (2200)         2200         2200              -         6600         1320             -          3300           528
Stage O (fatri   oith cotton)              800          1600         4800           400          5040        2400           180           2520           960
Stage 1 l                               4000           3000            -          2000          8400            -         1700           4662             -
TotoS                                     7000          7000         7000           2400        20040         3720         1880          10482          1488          1205           282         -72
1979               Stage I (fariera vithout -tton)    (1400)               1400         1400              -         4200          840             -          2100           336
Otage 1 (fSrner-  vith cotton>             800          1600         2600           400          4480         1300          180           2240           520
Otage OU             "                    1800          3400            -            900         9520            -          765           5284             -
Stage . 11                                3000           600         3000           150         1680         ISSU         1506           1084          5500
Total                                     7000          7000         7000           2900        19880         3640         2445          10708          2356          1770           SUR         796
19S0               Stage 1 (fatri   vithoat tonton)          (800)           800         800              -         2400          480             -          1200           192
Stage O (frat.ra aith tettoo)              600          1500         2200            300         4200        1100           135           2100           440
Stage Il                                  1600          3700            -            gOO        10360            -          680           5750             -
Stage 111                                4000           1000         4000           2000         2800         2000         2000           1806          2000
Toto1                                     7000          7000         7000           3ioo        19760         3580         2815          10856          2632          2140          656         1072
1981               Stage O (f-r=e- eithnht cott-n)              -              -           _              -             -                                        -
Stage O (fanera vi0h cotton>               800          1400         2200           400          3920         1100           180          1960           440
Stage SU            "                     1400          4000            -            700        11200            -          595           6216             -
Otage III           "                    4000           1600         4800          2400          4480         2400         2400           2890          2400
Total                                     7000          7000         7000     1                 T9 60-0       3500         3175          11066          2840          2500           066        1280
1982               stage O (Seriner.silthît c-ttan)             -              _           -              -             -           _             -              -             -
St.g. 1 (fSri     vith nattas)               -           800         1400              -         2240          700             -          1120           280
Stage il            "                    1400           4000            -            700        11200            -          595           6216             -
stage III           "                    5600           2200         5600           2800         6160         2800         2800           3973          2700
Tottl                                     7000          7000         7000           3500        19600         3500         3395          11309          3080          2720          1109        1570
1983               Stage O (farinra oithaut nattas)             -              -           -              -             -           -
Stage O (fariert  oith catton)               -              -         800              -            -          400             _              -          160
Stage II                                   800          4200            -            400        11760            -          340           6527             _
Stage  OII I                             6200           2800         6200          3100          7840         3100         3100           5057          3100
Total                                     7000          7000         7000          nSi          19600         3500         3440          11384          3260          3765         1384         1700
1984               Stage O ((sonnera vithout cottet)                          _-           -
Stage I (fannera  Sith cotte.)               -              -           -
Onage Il                                     - _        3600            -              -        10080            -             -          5594             -
Stage III           '                     7000          3400         7000           3500         9520         3500         3300           6140          3500
TotoS                                     7000          7000         7000           3500        19600         3500         3500          11734          3500          2825         1534         1940
1985               Stage O (faisec  vithout cotton)             -              -           -
Stage O (fariet. ifihi cattoa)               -              -           -              -             _           -
Otage Il            "                        -          3000            -              -         8400            -             -          4662             -
Stage 111           "                     7000          4000         7000           3500        11200         3500         3500           7224          3500
Total                                     7000          7000         7000           3500        19600         3500         3500          118S6          3500          2825         1686         1940
1986               Stage t (farient cithoau  cotton)            -              -           -
Stage O (faiotet cicth cota.>)               -              -           -
Otage OU                                     -          2400            -              -         6720            -             -          3730             -
Stage I1I I                              7000           4600         7000           3500        12880         3500         3500           830S          3500
Total                                     7000          7000         7000           3100        9600          3500         3500          12038          3500          2825         1838         1940
1/   Prajecord proneoaioo thro-gh denelopnent stages by faritot it baoed  n  the fort bhîdge  for a typical farier in the S-an.na regioo aa ohta i. Tablo 6b, eith miner isdlffcanlort
te nefl>cct .n.ttraintt on  -dopnl             - nattt aueh aa ana-lability of i.proned tend atd aapanity of pronj-t  -rniceo.
2/   A-erago trop  -n.as per fars (ha.): cotton * 0.,  -orghb     = 3.0 for ftanser  not grattaig cotto 2, 3.  for faritera grgving cotton; gnoundflts- a.6 fan fetsien   non grcnltg cotton
0.3 fan farno.- grtailg  -ct..  Ananago yil1da (kg./htiacotton I t   450  OS - 850, tII  = 1000;  orghue I = S00, t>  = 5S   OII  = 645; gro-nds-t  I  - 400. Il   1000. (S.o  Tables
6a -td 6b)
3/   Ats irf  tantia  deelopb=ent inahonace af prajent.  le. prar  7.02.
4/   Figures it  panesthe.et  -efer ta f-reent vbo grta  food  r.pt anly.
S/   A typioa  eramer f  o- Id aîsa grtv  bout 0.1 ha of legu.ea a.d tubent for faeily c..oueption.   Areas-     d yields cf theae.  ropsarnoc epect-d  t  change.
Pradubtion af th-sa cr0ps by the 7,000 farc faoili-s  ao.uns ta ahobt 280 totts
By 0900 abour 3t0 arsn  o    Prjatt                  tbd ta b    in      aa   By a    f  a  -g fan  n .ease  lu for  orna thsit is kely Sa (rhon st       e
Projent oraPt. (le. Tahln 6e fan- 5uno  u  fa_  budget> ,Po onut  a  nnhdatae.o  cI   t  hipaet oaorpajntafp



Annex 4
Table 12
TOGO
RURLAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEOT IN COTTEON AREAS
PROJECTRONS OF' FARO(ERS, CHOP AREAS AND CR0? PRODUCTION: AIL HERSONS 1/
tALENIAR TERA,                               N0MBERS OF FAJOIRRS OROWING                                CHOP AERAS (Ha)                                TOTAL PRODU'CTION (Tons)                          INCREMONTAI. PORODCTION (Ta.a)
PROJET TEARO ANS                                                                                                                                                                              r
STAGE OF DRVEOROPMENT                Cotton         Maite      Sorgho0   Grooroutote    Cotton          Malte        Sorshur    Grondnuta    Totton           Malte      S-raho     Croundnuta       Cotto        Malta       Norehu      GroundntOt
W0100T PROUJtIT  3/ 
(0577  anA on)  Stage I .ittoot cotton          (34,000)        18,70       15:300     9,30                  -      19,115       24,640       2,,930            -         13,380    12,320         1,170
Stg      th  otton        RH,HSR        0130    00       0       ,R             1,5           ,H          13,360       1.700        6,,44           6,1')      6.680         680
Stegeo II                           00                    -     -           -33R                               -                 -          280-                         -           -
stageSIII               2/           --                         -     -                    -            -            -           -             -              -          --
Total:  Prt(ect Patti.lpa.tt  19,30R          11,500      13,100      10,300          4160         H,0           7,6 ,30                       -              -0         -           -,5
Total:  AillCtgot               53, 3R0       30,200      23,100      14,300                       27,915       38,OO0       463          6,720          19,540    19,000         ,3
0011 PHRJECT
Fs 1             Stage Oi uhot oettoa           (30,2100        17,100 -  13,100         7,600               -       7 50         20,380       2,260                      12,250      10,190         9H4
Stage 1Itwth colltt.             9,100        13,1000     10,000       6,700           5,700      10,020        17,320       2270         3,260           7,020      8,660         908
Staga OS                        13,60               -           -           -         7,820             -            -            -       6,350               -          --
Ntage II,  o: :                    400              -           -           -            270            -            -            -          29 0             -          -            -
Total: projeo.tparttlclpaata  23,100          13,100      14,600      11,300          13,790       10,020       21,000       t,730       10,200           7,020      8,100         810           3,480        -270         -150         -40
Total: AIl Cat gonie            33,300        30,200      23,100      14,300               -       27,525       37,700       4.13H             -         19,270    10,050        1,810
PT 2              Otage I vithot  oîtot.         (23,800)       13,400      10,400       0,800               -      13,630        13,920       1,680             -          9,540      7,960         672
Stage I wtth coîtto.             6,400        10,500        3,000       8,300          3,750        7,950        8,080       3,770         2,110          5,570      4.040       1,108
Rtagt Sil '                     22,000         6,300       7,700            -        13,070         5,060       13,360            -      11,270           3.680      7,830            -
Stage II,                        1,100o             -           -           -            7 20           -            -            -          780               -          --
Total: Projeat Participante  29,500           16,000      16,300      12,100          17.540       13,010       24,320       3,130       14,160          11,250    11,560        1,020           7,440       1(250          830         - 70
Total: Ail Cattgorlea           53,300        30,200      23,100      14,300               -       26,640       37,360       4:43H0            -         20,790    19,830        1,780
PT 3              Otage S wlthoot cattot         (17,600)       10,300       7 30        4,000               -      10,330        lug9 3        1:100            -          7,380      5,430          440
Ntage I wtt0  tottot             6,300         6,800        3,9000      6,300          3,680        5,310         .:00        1670         2,073          3,720      4,3800         670
Stage OU                        15,401o       11,200       8, 400           -          9,3890       8,440       14;600       1,600        0,180           9.770      8,5 10           -
Otage TIII'                     14,000         1,900       1,300       4,000           8,090        1,300        2,680            -        8,520          2,510      1,970       1,600
Total: Poja.to Pacti.lpeata  33,700           19,900      10.400      12,900          21,160       1:3,30       28,1820      3,330        18,770         16,000o   14,310        2,190          12,850       3,840        1,310         888
Total: Ail Categorîtl  33,300  30,200  23,100   14,300              ~ ~~~~~~- 25,880     36,940       4,370             -         23,380    20,310        2,710
PY 4              Otage I eithoat .totto          (8,907)        4,900       6,000        2,100              -       4:92          6,100         610             -          s 450      3,030         240
Htagt I vlAh  tottot             8,700         8,800       .6,200       6,200          5,200        7,010         0.920      1.300         2,980          4:900o    4,46'0         600
Otage XII'I                     12,600        12,900       9,700            -         17,370        9,780       16,480            -        6,300         11,290      9,640            -
Otage III                       23,100         3,600       3,2000      6,000          13,790        2,870        5,040       2.20H       14,660           4,700      3,742       2,200
Total: Projett Partiolpatta  44,400           23,300      20,400      13,300          26,360       19,660       31,480       3,830        23,940         20,890    17,640         2,740         17,220       4,800        1,090       1,190
Total: All  Categotet           533,300       30,200      23,100      14,300               -       294,185      36,540       4,310             -         204,340    20,890       3,040
ny S             Otage I tilat  tottot                 -             -            -           -              -            -            -            -            -               -          -           -
Otg S. 1   A  cttot              8,910        10,100       7,300       6.300           5,300        7,870        9,960       1,530         3,030          3,310      4,980          610
Itaga Il   '                     4,900        14,600      10,800            -          8,820       11,070       18,160            -        7,550         12,770    10,640             -
Stage III  '29,500                             3,000       3,000       7,800          17,340l       4,450        7,880       2,700        18,630          7,220      5,820       2,700
Total: Pt.ject Partllpeate  33,300            30,200      23,100      14,300          31,660       23,390       36,000       4,230        29,210         23,500    21,440         3,310         22,490       3,968        2,440        1,660
Total: A11 Categarîts           33,300        30,200      23,100       14,300              -       23,390       36,000       4,230             -         25,500    21,440         3,310
nY 6              Otage O vithtt ooltta                -            -             -            -            -                    -            -           -                      -          -           -
Otage 1Iwtth ctotto                  -         3,100       3,700       4,700               -        3,970        5,200       1,030             -          2,780      2,600          410
Otaga il                        17,700        17,700      12,700            -         10,530       13,390       20,160            -        9,020         15,470    11,920             -
Stage III                       35,600         7,400       6,700       9,600          21,130        6,030       10,640       3,200        22,440          9,730      7 820        3,200
Total: Projeet Partitipa.tt   53,300          30,200      23,100       14,308         31,660       23,390       36,000       4,230        31,460         27, 9800   22, 340       3.6010        24,740       8.440         3,340       1,760
Total: Ai'l categarlea          33,300        30,200      23,100      14,300               -       23,390       36,000       4,230             -         27,980    22,340         3,610
nY 7             Stage I trothot  ot.tot.--                                       -              -                 -           -               -                        -                               -
Stage I viti coîtot                  -              -           -      3,10      j         ---                                  630            --                         -         250
Stage II :                       8,900        20,900      14,600                 j    3,300        13,780       22,320            -        4,340)        18,250    13,390             -
Stage III                       44,400         9,300       8,300       11,20          26,360        7,610       13,480       3,600        28,000         12,240      9,0890       3,600
Total: Ail Ca  P.tego pita  33,300            30,200      23,100       1430           31660        23,390       36,000        4,230       32,340          30,490    23,280        3,830         21,820       10,950        4,280       2,000
T.t.I:All C--g-t1-  53,30  30,20   23,00        14,30000-                   23,390       36,000        4,230             -         30,4990    23,280       3,850
nY 8             Htage O rfthot  .totto                --                         -     -              -           -           -                                                 -          -           -
Stage I 46th  otto                   --                                1,300               ---                                  130            -                                      0
Otage SI   '              -       ~~~~~~~     ~~~19,000  13,000                        14,200       19,880            -             -         16,500    11,850-
Stag  III                       53,300        11,2000    10,1000    13,000            31,660        9,9          610          410-                       14,760    11,790         4,100
Total: ftojatt Pattiipante   3 3,0            30,200      23,100       14,300         31,660       23,390       36,000        4,230       33,640          31,260    23,640        4,150         26,920       11,720        4,640       2,300
Tata1: All Categarlie          53:3,380       30,200      23,100       14,300               -      23,390       36,000        4,230             -         31,260    23,640        4,150
ns               Stageîooth..ttcottot-.                                              -                -            -                   -             -                           -          -           -
Stage O setI .totto                   --                                   0                            -             -          30     I                                            lo-1
Stage 1    ,                                  17,00-0    11,200             -              -       12,550       17,040            -             -        14,670    10,18              -
Otage lIt  O    O       3~~~~3,300    13,200      il,900      14,000          31,660       10,840       18,960       4,200              -         17,400    13,870        4,200
Total: Projatî Parotoipacta  33,300           30,200       23,100      14,300         31,660       23,390       36,000        4,230       33,640          32,0700   24,030        4,210         26,920       12,330        3,050       2,340
Tatal: Ail Ca5one                3,300        30,200       23,100      14,.300              -      23,390O      36,000'       4:230             -         32,070    24,050        4,210
ny 10            Staga I  iîthoat .ottot                              -           -           ----                                                  ---                                     --
Stage I vEtO  ott-                                  -           -           -                                                                                                
Stage                     15,00                             9,00                                   18,970             ---                                 12,920      8,520-
stage III                       53,300        13,100      13,700       14,300         31,660       12,420       14,200        4,230             -         19,920    15,930        4,230
Teta.l: Projet PartielPeate  53,300           30,200       23,100      14,300    j 31,660          23,390       21,800        4,230       33,640          32,840    24,450        4,230         26,920       13,200        5,450       2,380
Total: AIl Categarlea           53,300        30,200       23,100      14,300               -      23,390       36,000        4,230             -         32,840    24,450        4,230
1/   Rt- detaile by ..gi.. .ea Tablea  O t  11.
2/   Peajeet parti.lpaatl  gno-  ottoe.  By PR 5 all Oaeatr  t--an  by lhe peoJeet ara prajattd to gnou cottot and nh. projeat pactittpant  talaI  letl quai tI. ttta1 fat aI.                     atgele
3/   Aaand atatit.  Oea paragrph  7.02.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Ox-drawn Cultivation
1.        Background.  The cattle population in Togo is estimated to be about
200,000 head. The highest concentration, some 75,000 head or about 40% of
the total, has been traditionally in the northernmost Savanna region where, as
a result of earlier attempts to introduce work oxen, some 1,300 farms use
ox-drawn cultivation (1975 estimate).  In other regions, ethnical reasons and
lack of interest in participating in courses organized at ox-training centers
prevented the introduction of ox-drawn cultivation, and, as a result, almost
no oxen are used for field work outside the Savanna region.
2.        The Breeds.  The main breed is the trypanotolerant humpless Borgou,
which, in the North, is interbread with the Zebu. This cross appears to
be partricularly suitable for field work.  In addition, there is a small herd
of N'dama cattle, about 250 head in 1975, imported about eight years ago
from Mali. These animals are similar to the Borgou-Zebu cross. Although
generally of a lighter type, they can be well used for cultivation with
corresponding light equipment, which has been developed in several West
African countries (e.g., Ghana, Senegal). According to a 1974 survey,
the average animal reaches a weight of about 200 kg in three to four years,
and training can begin at this time.   Full working output would be achieved
around the fifth to seventh year when the average weight reaches 300 kg.
3.        Training and Demonstration.  In view of the limited success of
past programs to introduce ox-drawn cultivation in Togo, SOTOCO would in most
areas basically aim at laying foundations for a more rapid ox-drawn cultiva-
tion in follow-up projects. Instead of the old and unsuccessful method of
calling farmers to ox-training centers, SOTOCO would use mobile teams. These
teams would go out and live in the villages, and there on-the-spot, would
demonstrate ox-drawn cultivation and train farmers to handle oxen and carry
out work on their own fields. One team would consist of two trainers, two
pairs of oxen, two multipurpose toolbars (with plow, ridger and harrow), one
seeder, and one ox cart. The capital cost would be as follows:
Pair of oxen                     CFAF 50,000 (US$204)
Multi-purpose toolbar            CFAF 30,000 (US$122)
Multipurpose seeder              CFAF 30,000 (US$122)
Ox cart                          CFAF 60,000 (US$245)
4.        SOTOCO would purchase oxen in the northern part of the country
and would operate 23 ox-demonstration teams in key areas of all regions.
Large villages in areas with good agricultural potential and progressive



ANNEX 5
Page 2
farmers would be given preference. A team would normally stay in the village
for one agicultural season to thoroughly acquaint farmers with all successive
field operations and to demonstrate the attractive potential of oxen for
transport. The teams would be an integral part of the extension service. The
SOTOCO Regional Managers would be generally responsible, and specifically for
planning the deployment of teams within the region. Short-term tasks and
day-to-day work would be supervised by Chiefs of Sectors and Subsectors, with
the close cooperation of the local extension agents.
5.        Veterinary services, particularly vaccination against bovine pleuro-
pneumonia and other contagious diseases, would be provided by the sectoral
veterinary assistants. Daily hygiene and tick control would be the responsi-
bility of the ox trainers.
6.        It is planned that 13 ox training teams would be operative by
PY 2, and the full complement of 23 by PY 3. A likely phasing for each
activity area is given in the table below:
No. of ox training teams
Region            Sector           PY 1       PY 2       PY 3    Total (PY 3-5)
Plateau           Akposso           -           3          3            6
Central           Bassar            2           3          2            7
Soutouboua        -           1          2            3
Kara              Pagouda           -           1          1            2
Savanna           Dapaon            -           2          1            3
Mango             -           1          1            2
2         il         10           23
7.        Ox-drawn cultivation on Farms.  Because of the extensive ownership
of cattle and modest past success with training and introduction of ox-drawn
cultivation in the Savanna, this region would be the prime target for adopting
ox-drawn cultivation by farmers. Farmers who own animals of a suitable age
and are interested would be given preference. Starting in PY 3, medium-term
credit would be made available to those farmers for the purchase of a multi-
purpose toolbar, with necessary attachments for field works, an ox cart and
yoke, chain, and cord. A moderate adoption rate has been assumed, of 50, 100,
and 200 farmers in PY 3, 4 and 5 respectively. Vaccinations and other veterinary
services would be provided to farmers by the Savanna Department of Animal
Husbandry, which is a regional unit of the Direction of Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Services in Lome. The regional Department is under a Veterinary
Inspector. The Dapaon sector has six and the Mango sector three Veterinary
Stations, with a Veterinary Assistant in charge of each station. SOTOCO ex-
tension service would encourage farmers to make good use of available grazing
land and to utilize food crop residues, such as sorghum and millet stover, and
groundnut hay. Farmers would also be taught to supplement rations for oxen
during periods of field work and heavy transport with cereal middlings, rice
bran and low-grade cottonseed, wherever available. During these periods, the



ANNEX 5
Page 3
recommended supplement rate of fodder concentrate would be 1 kg per animal per
day. Maintenance of ox-drawn equipment would be done by farmers themselves and
repairs would be carried out by existing village blacksmiths . Studies on ox
cultivation in the Savanna region suggest that one ox team works on average
about 6 ha per season. Thus the 350 new ox teams introduced under the project
would cultivate over 2,000 ha of land by PY 5.
8.        The economy of ox-drawn cultivation is detailed in Annex 4, table 6
c. It is assumed that after introducing ox-drawn cultivation the average
farmer (farm size 3.9 ha) would increase his cultivated area by 0.5 ha and put
it under the usual cotton-foodcrop rotation (Annex 4, para 9). In addition
to increased activities on his own farm, he would provide hire services to
other farmers consisting annually on the average of about 1 ha plowing and 20
ox team days of transport. The Credit for purchasing ox drawn equipment (CFAF
95,000; US$388) would be supplied from SOTOCO at 10% interest rate and would
be repaid over seven years. Acquisition of this equipment by farmers may be
spread over several years. In case response is higher than expected, addition-
al credit would be made availale by CNCA to farmers under SOTOCO's control, at
the same time. The net cash income per farm would more than double with
the introduction of work oxen and the cash income per ALE day would nearly
triple.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Seed Multiplication and Research
A. Seed Multiplication
1.        Background.  For food crops, there is no organized commercial or
institutional seed multiplication service in Togo that produces seed on a
large scale. However, during 1972-75, IRAT has been multiplying small amounts
of varieties of cereals and legumes. These seed were handed over to the
SORADs, who were responsible for their distribution, and for supervising the
crops; no records are availabe on this effort. Fortunately, in 1976 IRAT
produced sufficient amounts of cereal and legume seed of promising varieties
(Annex 4) to enable the required quantities of improved seed to be phased into
the project in PY 3. The only exception is the groundnut variety RMP-12, where
seed stock is insufficient to cover demand in PY 3. The seed requirement for
PY 3 would, therefore, be complemented by other high yielding varieties
(RMP-91, 57-313, S28-206). As could be expected, the situation for cotton, a
single crop backed by a specialized research organization, is more advanced.
Since the introduction of G. hirsutum in Togo, IRCT has been meeting the
country's annual requirements of breeders' and foundation seed. Until 1975
cotton seed was distributed through the SORADs; but now the distribution and
the further mutliplication is the responsibility of SOTOCO.
2.        Organization.  Under the project, the organization of seed multipli-
cation services would be improved and production would be coordinated to meet
annual project requirements. Basically, the production of cotton and ground-
nut seed would pass through four multiplication stages, namely breeders',
foundation, registered, and certified seed; while multiplication of maize and
sorghum would be completed after a three year period. As previously, breeders'
seed would be produced on IRAT and IRCT stations. Responsibility for the
production of food crop foundation seed would be shared between IRAT research
and the SOTOCO Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU). Further stages of seed multi-
plication would be the responsibility of the SMU.
3.        The SMU would be provided with staff, transport, buildings, machinery
and equipment and would be administratively headed by SOTOCO's Technical
Director. An internationally recruited Seeds Agronomist would be in direct
charge of SMU for the first three years of project duration. Starting in
PY 2 he would be understudied by a Togolese Agronomist who would take over
full responsibilities for seed production for the remaining years of the
project. At SOTOCO headquarters, in Atakpame, a seed testing laboratory and
office complex would be built and equipped in PY 1.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The laboratory would be staffed with a Seeds Analyst, who would be responsible
for seed quality control. Provisions have ben made in project costs for
appropriate outside training of the Seeds Analyst (e.g., at IITA, Ibadan).
For the actual seed multiplication Government would make available by Sep-
tember 30, 1977 to SOTOCO and SMU three "Centre Polyvalent", which would be
converted into Seed Production Centers (SPC). Each SPC would have 80 - 100 ha
of arable land to provide enough space for the multiplication plots and
required isolation distances. The most suitable locations for the SPCs would
appear to be Ebeva near Atakpame in Plateau region, Kitangbao in Central
region, and Barkoissi in the Savanna. The SPCs would make use of the Ceqtres
Polyvalents' office and storage faclities. An additional store of 150 m
would be built at Barkiossi to handle the bulky groundnut seed production.
Each SPC would be staffed by a manager, a tractor driver and two permanent
laborers. Casual labor would be hired for labor peaks. A tractor with a full
range of agricultural machinery and seed-handling equipment would be supplied
for each SPC. The SPC managers would be trained by the Seeds Agronomist to
act also as seed inspectors, to oversee multiplication plots that would be
grown in the vicinity of the SPC by contract farmers. The SPC managers would
be equipped with motorcycles. SPCs would produce foundation and a part of the
registered seed. The bulk of registered and all certified seed for food crops
would be grown by contract farmers, who would receive a premium of CFAF 5.0
for each kg. of foundation and registered seed produced. Weighing, cleaning,
grading, dressing, bagging and labelling of food crop seed would be carried
out at SPCs.
4.        Cotton seed production would be carried out without SPC involve-
ment. Breeders' seed would originate at the IRCT research station at Kolokope
in the Plateau region. The foundation seed stage would be produced at the
cooperative Mutual Est Mono. The cooperative is located a short distance from
Kolokope, enabling seed growing to`be closely supervised by IRCT research
staff, and the coop farmers have alrady had several years of experience with
cotton seed productdion. They would recieve a premium of CFAF 5/kg of seed
cotton. The registered and certified stages would be grown by project farmers
in the Savanna region. Seed cotton from multiplication areas would be marked
and transported, stored and ginned separately. The ginneries at Atakpame and
Lama Kara would be responsible for cleaning, dressing, weighing, bagging and
labelling cotton seed.
5.        The proposed seed production structure based on cooperation of IRAT,
IRCT and SOTOCO would be the first step to a well organized integrated seed
multiplication system capable of producing substantial quantities of high-
quality seed. In view of the organizational background and large geographical
coverage of the system, it is hoped that it would serve as a beginning for a
national seed multiplication organization to be established in Togo after
several years of experience with seed production under this project.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        Seed Requirements.  During this project period, advanced farmers
would require quantities of seed summarized in the following table:
Seed Requirements (t)
Crop                   PY 1           2           3          4           5
Cotton                 500           630         760        950        1,140
Maize                   -             -           30          50          80
Sorghum                               -            9          19          26
Groundnuts                            -          160        220          270
Under the project, cotton seed would be replaced every year, while seed of
food crops would be changed every third year and the farmer would plant
home-grown seed every second year. Timely delivery of chemicals and super-
vision of seed dressing on farms in alternative years would be the responsi-
bility of SOTOCO extension agents. Phasing of seed production stages and seed
requirements over the five project years are given in Table 1, while utilization
of the first and second generation seed (F  and F 2) in PY 1 to 10 are presented
in Table 2.                                 I
B. Research
7.        Background.  Agricultural research on annual crops has been in the
hands of two commodity-oriented institutes: IRAT, for research work on food
crops, and IRCT on fibre crops. Both institutes have their administrative
headquarters and leading personnel in Lome, while supporting staff is carrying
out field trials on a regional basis. Each institute works through a network
of permanent substations which are complemented by temporary sites in ecologi-
cally important areas of the country. IRCT has a well-equipped Central
Research Station in Kolokope in the Plateaux region. Soil studies, classifi-
cation, mapping and analytical work is done by ORSTOM (Office de la Recherche
Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer), which occupies a well-established
institute in Lome. Government created recently a multidisciplinary research
institute (Institut Polyvalent de Recherches) with headquarters at Cacavelli
near Lome. This agency has a limited staff and carries out a limited program;
but it is possible that the agency could eventually become responsible for
overall research coordination, some basic research, and laboratory services.
8.        Regional Cooperation.  A recent develoment in the field of research
in tropical agriculture has been the creation of a network of international



ANNEX 6
Page 4
institutes. The level of financing, the availability of sophisticated
laboratory equipment, and staffing with scientists of top caliber, enable
these institutes to carry out fundamental research which a country of the size
of Togo cannot afford to pursue individually. Togolese research, however,
could derive substantial benefits from obtaining scientific support for its
activities from international institutes, especially IITA, which is relatively
close. Togolese research could focus on adaptive work, building on basic data
developed by IITA, and deriving full bnenefits from regional cooperation. It
can also be strengthened by technical support and training facilities offered
by IITA. IITA has agreed to participate in preparation of detailed trials
plans, and would make periodic visits to the project area for consultations,
and provide support services (analytical and statistical) as needed. It is
anticipated that in carrying out this program, IITA scientists would visit the
project area twice a year.
9.        Field Trials under the Project.  The project would finance and
thus have direct influence on several. IRAT and IRCT field substations which
are located in areas of expected heaviest project activities. The work
program of these stations would be prepared in cooperation with IRAT and IRCT
and of SOTOCO's technical staff. Essentially these stations would carry out
regional variety screening, basic crop nutrition of new varieties, plant
population, spacing, cultivation and crop protection trials. They would also
be involved in improving methods of protection and storage of harvested grain
crops. The stations would act on one hand as points of release for improved
crop recommendations and of demonstration items to be disseminated by SOTOCO
and on the other hand as points of reception for research problems fed back
from rural areas through the network of SOTOCO extension agents. Each sub-
station would be equipped with a small store and basic materials such as
measuring tapes, a scale, baskets, bags, handling and drying floor. In charge
would be an experienced research agent responsible for running the trials and
keping records. The stations to be integrated into the SOTOCO field trial
compànent are the following:
Region
Plateau       Central        Kara        Savanna
Food Crops                Amoutchou      Kitangbao     Atalote    Toaga
Notse                        Tamerma    Nagbeni
Cotton                    Kouve          Dalanda       Kadjalla   Fosse aux Lions
Asrama        Kabou
Est-Mono
10.       Substations would be supported by a flexible system of simplified
field trials and demonstrations carried out directly on farmers' fields, whichL



ANNEX 6
Page 5
would serve the dual purpose of verifying research results in ecological
conditions different from the substations and of demonstrating to farmers
improved methods of crop management. Particularly successful field trial and
demonstration sites would be used for field days to acquaint a large number of
farmers with these new methods.  This village field trial and demonstration
program would be planned in cooperation with IRAT and IRCT and the sites would
be subject to periodic supervision by their staff who would be invited to
participate in major field days. The SOTOCO Technical Director would be in
overall charge of the project field trial component and would be assisted by
two professional agronomists, one for the southern and the other for the
northern part of the project area. Provisions have been made for training
these agronomists at IITA, which is equipped to carry out training programs on
experimental techniques and evaluation, on production research of maize, tuber
crops, cowpeas, inter-cropping and minimum tillage. Training sessions are
conducted for periods of about six months to cover a whole cropping season.
It is anticipated that two SOTOCO agronomists would participate in such
sessions in the early project years.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PHASING OF SEED PRÔDUCTION STAGES AND SEED REQUIREMENTS
Production Stage
Breeders'           Foundation                  Registered                    Certified              Gen.release
Cro->         PY      t      py    ha    t/ha       t     PY    ha   t/ha    t       PY      ha     t/ha    t       PY      ha
Cotton        -4    0.10    -3    3.3    0.7    2.3    -2    76    0.5    38    -1    1,250    o.4    500    1    13,800
-3    0.12    -2    4.0    0.7    2.8    -1    95    0.5    47          1    1,580    0.4    630    Z    17,500
-2    0.14    -1    4.9    0.7    3.4        1   114    0.5    57       2    1,900    o.4    760    3    21,200
-1    0.18      1    6.1    0.7    4.3       2   143    0.5    71       3    2,380    0.4    950    4    26,400
1    0.21      2    7.3    0.7    5.1       3   172    0.5    86       4    2,850    o.4  1,14o    5    31,700
Maize         -1    0.02      1    o.6    1.0    o.6       2    30    1.0    30                                      3     1,300
1    0.01      2    0.4    1.0    o.4       3    20    1.0    20                   _                 4     1,100
2    0.03      3    1.2    1.0    1.2       4    60    1.0    60                  _                  5     2,600
Sorghum       -1    0.01      1    0.2    1.0    0.1       2      9    1.0      9                 _                  3       800
1    0.01      2    0.3    1.0    0.2       3    19    1.0    19                  _                  4     1,500
2    0.01      3    0.4    1.0    0.3       4    26    1.0    26                  _                  5     2,300
Groundnuts    -2    0.2      -1    2.0    1.0    2.0/   1    20    1.0    20         2       200    0.8    160    3       1,600
-1    0.1       1    1.0    1.0    1.0       2     8    1.0      8      3       75    0.8      60    4         600
1    0.3       2    2.5    1.0    2.5       3    25    1.0    25       4      250    0.8    210    5       2,100
1/    Area in ha to be grown
2/    Yield in t per ha
3/    Production of seed in t
_/    IRAT has only 0.3 t of groundnut variety RMP-12 from 1976 production.  Remaining 1.7 t for PY 1 (1977) multiplication
will be supplemented with RMP-12 seed from demonstration and farmers' plots or with other good varieties
(e.g. RMP-91,57-313,S28-206).
Flo



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SEED UTILIZATION IN PY 1-10
OF Fl AND F2 SE:D (t)
PY
Crop       Generation  1        2       3        4         5          6         7          8         9         10
Cotton         Fl      500     630     760      950     1,140      1,140     1,14o      1,14o     1,140      1,14o
Maize          Fi       -       -       30       20        60         4o         90        65        115        95
F2      -       -        -       30         20        60         4o        90         65        115
Total           -        30      50         80       100        130       155        180       210
Sorghum        Fl      -        -        9       10        16         18        24         26         32        34
F2      -       -        -        9         10        16         18        24         26         32
Total   -       -         9      19         26        34         42        50         58        66
Groundnuts     Fl      -        -      160       60       210        120       240        170       250        180
F2      -       -        -      160         60       200        120       240        170        250
Total   -       -       160     220        270       320        360       410        420       430
Sub-total      Fi     500      630     960   i,o4o      1,430     1,320      1,500      1,400     1,540      1,450
Total          F1+F2  500      630     960   1,240      1,520     1,600      1,670      1,760     1,800      1,850



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Seed Cotton Ginning, Transport and Marketing
Ginning
1.        At present there are three operational ginneries in Togo, all
located in the southern part of the project area in the Plateaux region.
Key data are given in the table below:
Ginning Capacity
Owner      Location        Main Equipment              (t seed cotton per season)
OPAT       Notse            1 88-saw gin                           3,000
1 lint cleaner
I press
SGGG 1/    Atakpame        3 90-saw gins                           4,800
1 lint cleaner
1 press
SCOA 2/    Atakpame        2 80-saw gins                           3,500
1 press
Total:                                11,300
The equipment of the ginneries is old, and they do not operate more than
two shifts of seven hours per day. The ginning season lasts around 120 days,
but could be extended to about 140 days if picking and marketing could be
organized to start earlier. As it is, the annual ginning capacity of Togo
is about 11,000 t of seed cotton.
2.        Under the project, seed cotton production would increase to over
30,000 t in PY 5 (including the Maritime region) and ginning capacity would
have to be adjusted accordingly. The extension of ginning capacity is expect-
ed to be financed by the Government with some outside financing by FAC, mainly
for studies and technical assistance. Such costs have not been included in
the Project. The Government has ordered equipment for a new ginnery in Lama
Kara, which should become operationalt1978 to cater for the seed cotton
production of the northern part of the project area. At the same time, a
a study has been initiated for extending the Notse ginnery in 1979, which
1/   Societe Generale du Golfe de Guinee.
2/   Societe Commerciale de l'Ouest-Africain.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
would enable processing of the increased production in the South. Phasing out
of the two old ginneries and building of a new ginnery in Atakpame, in 1979 or
1980, is a possibility and is under consideration.
3.        The new ginnery at Lama Kara would be the property of and would
be managed by SOTOCO. The ginnery would have three stands with two 128-saw
gins assuring a capacity of 12,000 t seed cotton per season. The third stand
could be equipped with another 128 saw gin, as and when required, thus raising
the processing capacity of the factory to 20,000 t per year. The ginnery
would be equipped with modern machinery such as unloading system, high capa-
city feeder and ginnng system, lint cleaning system, battery condensor,
density pressing system, etc., and the cost is estimated to be around CFAF 500
mil. (US$2 mil.). The extension of the ginnery in Notse would probably be
done in two phases. Phase one would increase capacity to 12,000 t and Phase
two, to follow about two years later, would raise the ginning outturn to some
20,000 t per season if so required.
4.        The expected increase of seed cotton production in each of the
regions is shown in Annex 4, Tables 8-11 and a summary for the project area
is given in Table 12. For purposes of ginning coverage the project area
would be divided into South (the Maritime and Plateau regions) and North
(Central, Kara, and Savanna regions). The table below gives the anticipated
production of seed cotton (Maritime region included) and phasing of increases
in ginning capacity broken down for South and North over the period of project
duration.
PY 0    PY 1        PY 2    PY 3        PY 4       PY 5
Production of      South   4,800   6,600        9,900   12,600       16,200    19,500
Seed Cotton (t)   North   1,900   3,600         5,700    7,900        9,800    11,900
Total   6,700  10,200       15,600   20,500      26,000    31,400
Ginning            South  11,000  11,000       11,000   11,000       20,000 2/ 20,000
Capacity (t)       North    -         -        19,000   12,000       12,000    12,000
Total  11,000  11,000       20,000   23,000      32,000    32,000
1/ Building of new ginnery in Lama Kara.
2/ Extension of ginnery in Notse.
Although the project does not provide finance for the extension of the ginning
capacity, the Government is making satisfactory provisions and it is not
expected that ginning capacity would be a constraint to project development.
Transport
5.        SOTOCO's fleet of transport vehicles consists at present of 19 lorries
of a capacity ranging from 7 to 19 t and of 15 trailers in the same capacity



ANNEX 7
Page 3
range. The following table presents the years of purchase, numbers, makes
and tonnage of the trucks and trailers.
Year     No.     Make (truck)        Capacity (t)      Make (trailer)      Capacity (t)
1974      2      Berliet L 52               7
1975      2      Austin 830 WF              7
1976      4      Hino TE 220               il              Legras               il
1976      2      Saviem SM 260             19              Fruehauf             19
1976      9      Mercedes L 1113/48         7              Doll                  7
SOTOCO's transport capacity is sufficient for pre-project needs. The vehicles
fleet is capable of transporting about 10,000 t of seed cotton over a four
months marketing period (the heavy 11 and 19 t trailers were excluded from
this calculation, since they proved unsuitable for most of the rural roads).
The production of 1976 is estimated in the region of 8,00-9,000 t of seed
cotton. Since most of the vehicles were purchased in 1976, the current excess
transport capacity would be utilized in PY 1 and 2 for transporting a portion
of the incremental seed cotton production (para 7).
6.        A qualified Industrial Manager would be responsible for the techni-
cal aspects of ginneries belonging to SOTOCO. He would be detached from CFDT
under the technical assistance to be provided for the starting up of the Lama
Kara ginnery, and would serve for three years.
7.        The project would finance vehicles to collect the incremental cotton
production. The calculations of the incremental means of transport are based
on a four-month seed cotton marketing and collecting season and on the as-
sumptions that each vehicle would make from the assigned ginnery to the rural
area on the average some 14 trips per month and the average return trip would
be about 200 km. The effective load would be 0.8 t of seed cotton per 1 t of
vehicle carrying capacity. Thus a 12 t truck would transport some 540 t and a
7 t truck some 310 t of seed cotton per season.
The following table shows the expected incremental increase in cot-
ton production and the assumed phasing of transport vehicles during project
duration:



ANNEX 7
Page 4
PY 1         2         3           4         5
Incremental seed cotton
production (t)                  3,500    7,400    12,000    17,200    22,500
Incremental requirement
of trucks (12 t)                     3        6          6         il         14
Reserve                          -             1          1         3          3
Total                                3         7         7         14         17
Incremental requirement
of trucks (7 t)                      3        5          5          9         10
Reserve                          -             1          1         2          2
Total                                3         6         6         il         12
Total transport capacity 2/
(t) in 120 days                 3,900 1/  8,300 1/  12,100    18,300    24,200
The operating life of a vehicle is assumed to be three years and therefore,
starting with PY 4, replacement vehicles have been phased into the above
projection. To safeguard the project against delays in supply of crucial
agricultural inputs to rural areas and in evacuation of agricultural produce
from rural areas one reserve vehicle has been incorporated into the projection
for each five vehicles.
8.        A new workshop, furnished with all necessary machinery, equipment
and spare parts, fuel and lubrication stores, would be bult at Atakpame in PY
1. The workshop would be staffed with an experienced Senior Mechanic who
would be responsible for repairs, heavy maintenance, and on-the-job training
of junior staff. A well-functioning workshop would be an essential condition
not only for efficient operation of the vehicles but also for the road build
ing and maintenance units (Annex 8).
1/   Includes respectively 1,400 and 1,000 t of existing SOTOCO transport
capacity (para. 5).
2/   Reserve vehicles not included.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Primary Marketing and Collection
9.        The expected projection of seed cotton production in each of the
regions is shown in Annex 4, Tables 8 - 11. Primary cotton marketing and
collection would be the responsibility of SOTOCO and would be carried out in
liaison with OPAT. The SOTOCO Industrial Director would be in overall charge
of the marketing operations but he would be closely assisted by the Technical
Director. Cotton would be purchased by properly equipped mobile SOTOCO buying
teams comprised of extension service personnel, truck operators and temporary
labor. In some areas, particularly in the southern part of Plateau region,
SOTOCO has been assisted in seed cotton collection by marketing cooperatives
and this practice is likely to continue.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
Background
1.        To enable implementation of the Rural Development Project in Cotton
Areas, access roads are needed both for the transport of SOTOCO's extension
agents and farm inputs and the marketing of farm products.
2.        SOTOCO has prepared a preliminary inventory of such roads, totalling
1,442 km. Of these, 694 km. are considered in urgent need of being built
and/or improved during the five-year project period. The description of these
roads and tentative cost estimates are shown in Tables 2 to 6.
3.        Another 750 km. also require improvement, and it is recommended
that they be incorporated into a future separate feeder roads project; this
project, however, should place more emphasis on institution building which, in
the medium and long term, would ensure permanent planning and implementation
of feeder road improvements and maintenance in Togo.
Program Objective and Executing Agency
4.        The main objective of the proposed feeder road component in the
project area would be to start as quickly as possible to improve and subsequent-
ly maintain 694 km. of feeder roads, in the most cost-efficient way consistent
with suitable quality. This can (in the short term) only be obtained by
substantially reinforcing the engineering section of SOTOCO and commissioning
SOTOCO to do the works on force account. The reasons for this recommendation
are:
(a)  experience is that feeder road works in Togo are
carried out less expensively by reasonably efficient
force account than by contractors;
(b) Travaux Publics is not geared to carry out improvements
or maintenance works on feeder roads; and,
(c) the SORADs (Societes Regionales pour l'Amenagement et
le Developpement), and the Genie Rural are not, at
present, sufficiently organized to be able to carry
out such works.
By reinforcing SOTOCO and financing the procurement of equipment, the execution
of this program would be satisfactorily achieved.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Program Components and Organization
5.        The program would include the following:
(a)  procuring equipment for building of feeder roads
(Table 1);
(b) opening, upgrading and/or improving 694 km. of
feeder roads (Tables 2 to 6);
(c) providing technical assistance in the form of a
"Chef de Brigade" (complemented by other
technicians from SOTOCO - see para. 6);
(d)  providing funds to enable SOTOCO's Mechanical
Workshop to carry out maintenance of, and small
repairs to, the equipment procured under the
program;
(e) carrying out maintenance work on roads opened
or improved under the program (Table 7); and,
(f)  providing funds for local staff and a limited
office and administrative staff, employed
under the program.
6.        The technical assistance needed to carry out the program would
consist of: (i) a Civil Engineer, as chief of the technical team with overall
responsibility for execution of the road program; (ii) one Chief Mechanic, in
charge of both road equipment and SOTOCO's Mechanical Workshop, and, (iii) the
Head of the Feeder Loads unit, responsible for equipment operation and super-
vision of field work; these three technicians would be internationally recrui-
ted.
7.        The local staff would consist of one road technician, three foremen,
three mechanics, and office staff. The cost of equipment operators and
laborers are included in the cost per kilometer, as detailed in Table 2.
8.        Organization and Standards. There would be: (a) one heavy brigade
for road improvement, with equipment shown in Table 1; and, (b) two light
brigades each with one grader and one service truck, for maintenance of
improved roads and emergency repair of unimproved roads until improvements
are made.
The heavy brigade would open or improve an average of 240 km
yearly, with 102 km in Year 2, 181 km in Year 3, 214 km in Year 4, and 197
km in Year 5.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
9.        Road standards would be: (a) those for roads carrying average
daily traffic (ADT) of below 10 vehicles: a 4-5 m platform with 4 m gravel
surface; and, (b) those for roads carrying between 10 and 20 ADT: a 6 m
platform with 4 m gravel surface. The percentage of regravelling would depend
on quality of subsoil. Regravelling would be, generally, (a) for roads on
lateritic soils: up to 10 cm thickness, on up to 80% total length; and (b)
for non-lateritic soils, up to 10 cm over the entire length required.
Maintenance would consist of one grader passage each year, manual
repairs of potholes, grass cutting, culvert repairs, and ditch cleaning.
Each maintenance unit would consist of one grader and one service truck;
output, assuming good roads, would reach 3-4 km per day, at a cost of about
CFAF 30,000 (US$120) per km excluding equipment depreciation. The maintenance
program would be 110 km in Year 2; 102 km in Year 3; 283 km in Year 4; and 497
km in Year 5. An additional grader plus service trucks from the heavy brigade
are assumed to join in maintenance from Year 3 on.
Workshop. SOTOCO's workshop would handle small repairs to the
road equipment; facilities would be augmented to handle SOTOCO's trucks
included in the Project. Building costs are estimated at 12 million CFAF
(US$48,000). Heavy repairs would be carried out by private workshops in
Lome.
10.       If during the project life Government institutes a centralized
agency in this sector, then SOTOCO's feeder roads department, with its
equipment and staff, would be transferred to it, with the provision that
feeder roads in the project area would be built as a matter of priority
within the agency's overall program. An agreement would be reached with
SOTOCO under which the handed over equipment would enjoy the continuing
services of the workshop in Atakpame.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
Ennii-ment List
('000 CFAF)
No. of       Unit Price  Total Cost      TOTAL
Units       (incl. tex)  (inci. tax) (net of taxes)
A. Heavy Brigade
(for Road Construction and Improvement)
Bulldozer 75 HP               1            17,000       17,000       13,600
Bulldozer 140 HP              1             23,000      23,000       18,400
Motograder 120 HP             2            19,000       38,000       30,4000
Loader 80 HP                  1            12,000       12,000        9,600
Self-propelled Roller         1            12,000       12,000        9,600
Water Trucks 5000 1           2              6,ooo      12,000        9,600
Dump Trucks 5m3               5              6,ooo      30,000       24,000
Pick-up Trucks                3             1,500        4,500        3,600
Compressor                    1             3,000        3,000        2,400
Subtotal       151,500      121,200
B. Maintenance Brigade
Motorgrader 120 HP            2            19,000       38,000       30,400
Service Trucks 3.5 t          3             3,200        9,600       7,6oo
Subtotal        47,6o0       38,000
Total:  Equipment:                   199,100      159,200



TOGO                                  ANNEX 8
RURLAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS                Table 2
Feeder Roads Program
Basis of Calculetion of
Road Improvement Costs
(Total costs are in CFAF per km, net of depreciation charges for equipment).
A. Road on laterite ground with slow traffic (below 10 ADT 1/):
1. To reopen         2. To upgrade and surface
Clearing                 60,000                         30,000
Earthwork               170,000
Partial surfacing       170,000                        170,000
Drainage                100,000                         80,000
Overheads                20,000                         20,000
Total              520,000                        300,000
B.  Road on laterite ground with permanent traffic (up to 20 ADT
1. To reopen         2. To upgrade and surface
Clearing                 60,000           (partial)    35,000
Earthwork               170,000                         50,000
Total surfacing         550,000                        500,000
Drainage                200,000                        100,000
Overheads                30,000                         20,000
Total           1,010,000                         705,000
C. Road on non-lateritic ground with slow traffic:
1. To reopen         2. To upgrade and surface
Clearing                 70,000           (partial)    35,000
Earthwork               180,000
Partial surfacing       180,000                        180,000
Drainage                120,000                        120,000
Overheads                40,000                         4°,°°°
Total              590,000                       375,000
D. Road on non-lateritic ground with permanent traffic:
1. To reopen         2. To upgrade and surface
Clearing                 70,000                         35,000
Earthwork               180,000                         90,000
Total surfacing         642,000                        642,000
Drainage                300,000                        150,000
Overheads                4o,ooo                         30,000
Total            1,232,000                       947,000
1/ ADT = Average Daily Traffic



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
List of Roads to be
Opened or Improved
A. Plateau. Region
Cost per km 1/    Total Cost         To be built
Road No. and Location                      Length (km)    Type/            (CFAF)         ('000 CFAF)          in PY
la       Elevagnon-Degou                         15          D-1         1,232,000           18,480              2
lb       Ogou-Yanda                              38          D-1         1,232,000           46,816               2
2        Kpedome-Alati-Medje                     36          D-1         1,232,000           44,352              2
4        Tado-Kpekpleme                          34          B-1         1,010,000           34,34o              3
5        Adeta-Haho                              12          B-1         1,010,000           12,120              3
6        Amou-Oblo-Kpategan                      33          A-2           300,000            9,900              3
9        Nawolo-Avedje                           15          A-2           300,000            4,500              4
10        Adjakpahoe-Adave                        15          A-2           300,000            4,500               4
il        Agbati-Lato                              6          A-2           300,000            1,800               4
12        Wahala-Samonecope                        8          A-2           300,000            2,400              4
13        Xanto-Yokou                             14          A-2           300,000            4,200               4
14        Togba-Abongo-Cope                        5          A-2           300,000            1,500               5
16        Kpalango-Kpegnon                        30          A-1           520,000           15,600               5
17        Tado-Saligbe                            18          A-2           300,000            5,400               5
18        Kpele-Tabligbo (Border)                 18          A-2           300,000            5,400               5
Total Plateaux:       297 km                                      211,308                     3
1/  See Table 2 for different types and unit cost.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
List of Roads to be
Opened or Improved
B. Central Region
Cost per km 1/    Total Cost 2/    To be built
Road No. and Location                       Length (km)   Type l/          (CFAF)         ('000 CFAF)          in PY
la       Guerin-Kouka-Kidjaboum-                 47          D-1         1,232,000           57,904              3
Katchamba-Namab
2a       Namon-Koutiere-Kara                     17          D-1         1,232,000           20,944              3
3        Katchamba-Diabokou                      13          B-1        1,010,000            13,130              2
5        Namnpoch-Deman                          13          A-1           520,000            6,760              4
8        Dimori-Kountoun-Banghan                 35          A-1           520,000           18,200              4
9        Kpalou-Kikpan                           il          A-1           520,000            5,720              h
lOa       Naware-Bapure                           10          A-2           300,000            3,000              5
il        Lama Tessi-Koboyo                       12          A-2           300,000            3,600              5
12a       Akaba-Dagala                            30          A-2           300,000            9,000              5
13a       Daza-Agbandaoude                         6          A-1           520,000            3,120              4
14a       Bitjabe-Dimori                          12          A-2           300,000            3,600              5
Total Centrale Region:       301 km                                      144,978
152,227 2/
1/   See Table 2 for different types and unit cost.
2/   Unit cost calculated on Plateaux Region basis; regional increase coefficient applied:                         1 3
Centrale 105%; La-Kara 110%; and, Savannes 115%.
Ht'><
CDoz



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
List of Roads to be
Opened or Improved
C. La-Kara Region
Cost per km 1/    Total Cost 2/    To be built
Road No. and Location                     Length (km)    Tp1/             (CFAF)         ('000 CFAF)          in PY
2a       Massedena Koutougou                     10         B-1         1,010,000           10,100              3
5       Atalote-Tchasside                        6          A-2           300,000            1,800              5
8        Sola-Madjalome                           8         B-2           705,000            5,64o              3
9        Sola-Koudjia                           13          A-1           520,000            6,760              4
il        Koufitougou-Koutendiegou                 6         A-2           300,000            1,800              5
12        Wartena-Tchitchira                       8         A-1           520,000            4,16o              4
13        Nadoba-Tchitchira                        9         A-1           520,000            4,680              4
14        Atalote-Terite                           6         A-2           300,000            1,800              5
15        Terite-Warte-Ferme                      13         A-1           520,000            6,760              4
17        Gante-Sola                               5         A-1           520,000            2,600              4
18        Warango-Koutapa                          5         A-2           300,000            1,500              5
22        Madiatom-Kpanaware                      il         A-1           520,000            5,720              4
23        Sirka-Ndei                               6         A-2           300,000            1,800              5
25        Agbelossi-Bededa                         8         A-1           520,000            4,160              4
Total La-Kara Region:       114 km                                      59,280
At 110%      65,2o8 2/
1/   See Table 2 for different types and unit cost.                                                            F-3
2/   Unit cost calculated on Plateaux Region basis; regional increase coefficient
applied: Centrale 105%; La-Kara 110%; and, Savannes 115%.                                                  X x
\'n CD



TOGO
RUR-L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
List of Roads to be
Opened or Improved
D. Savannes Region
Cost per km l/       Total Cost 2/ To be built
Road No. and Location                             Length (km)    Type1/           (CFAF)           ('000 CFAF)        in Py
i        Tandjoare-Nayergou                            24           D-1          1,232,000           29,568             4
3        Loko-Tamonga                                   9           A-1            520,000            4,68o              5
4        Magbeni-Bjaga                                  7           A-1            520,000            3,640              5
6        Mogou-Tontondi                                17           A-1            520,000            8,84o              5
7        Namoundjoga-Naki-Est                          20           B-1          1,010,000           20,200             3
Total Savannah Region:   77 km                                           66,928
At 115%      76,967 2
l/ See Table 2 for different types and unit cost.
2/ Unit cost calculated on Plateaux Region basis; regional increase coefficient
applied: Centrale 105%; La-Kara 110%; and Savannes 115%.
CDX
0' CD



ANNTEX 8
Table 7
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
Road Maintenance
Note: Maintenance unit to be composed of one Motorgrader and one
service truck. Output: 3 to 4 km a day. Cost: about
CFAF 30,000 per km (excluding equipment depreciation):
CFAF      Total
('000 CFAF)
PY 2   First year emergency maintenance
110 km at:             30,000      3,300
PY 3   Roads built up to PY 2 -
102 km at:             30,000      3,060
PY 4   Roads built up to PY 3 -
283 km at:             30,000      8,490
PY 5   Roads built up to PY 4 -
497 km at:             30,000    14,910
Total:   29,760



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
Yearly Building Program and Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Region/                      PY 2             PY 3            PY 4             PY 5             Total
Cost                 km    Cost       km    Cost       km    Cost       km    Cost       km    Cost
Plateau                   89  109,648      79   56,360     58   17,400      71   27,900    297  211,308
Centrale                 13   13,787       64   82,790     65   35,490      64   20,160    206  152,227
La-Kara                          -        18   17,314      67   38,324      29    9,570    114   65,208
Savanna                          -        20   23,230      24   34,003      33   19,734      77   76,967
102  123,435    181  179,694    214  125,217    197   77,364    694  505,710
Drainage Structures            18,800           33,360           39,440           36,300         127,900
HL3
(Dn
CO CD



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Feeder Roads Program
Summary of Costs
('000 CFAF)
Foreign Exchange    Taxes
PY 1      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4       PY 5       Total       %   Amount     %   Amount
1. Equipment                 47,600   151,500      -          -         -        199,100   74   147,345   20    39,800
2. Local Staff                1,250     2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500      11,250   -        -       5        625
3. Technical Assistance        -       12,000    12,000    12,000       -          36,000   75    27,000   10      3,600
4. Workshop: Buildings         -       12,000      -          -                   12,000   35      4,200   15      1,800
Equipment         -       12,000       -         -         -          12,000   65     7,800   15      1,800
5. Road Construction           -      123,435   179,694   125,217    77,364      505,710   70   353,997   14    70,799
6. Drainage Structures         -       18,800    33,360    39,440    36,300      127,900   70    89,530   14    17,906
7. Road Maintenance            -        3,300     3,060      8,490    14,91o       29,760   50    14,880   14      4,166
48,850   335,535   230,614   187,647   131,074      933,720   69   644,752   15   140,496
Physical contingencies 1/  4,760    39,935    32,417    25,972    19,286      122,370   69    84,435   15    18,356
Price contingencies 2/     2,008    44,110    62,828    72,967    68,169       250,082   69   172,557   15    37,512
55,618   419,580   325,859   286,586   218,529   1,306,172   69   901,744   15   196,364
1/ 10% of Equipment and 15% of Civil Works
2/ Equipment: 7 1/2% thru 1977-1979, 7% thereafter.
Civil works: 9% thru 1977-1979, 8% thereafter; others: 7% throughout.
CD >
'o,cO



TOC- O
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Summary of Projert Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Foreign Ex,hange           Taxes
PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         PY 4         PY 5       Total       %         Amount      %         Amount
I.  HQ end Field Servi-es
Buildings                             90,900      2'1,540     140,030      121,2'0       83,600      587,290    54        319,770      14        79,943
Vehicles and Equipment                89,848      159,256     123,774      250,970      279,088      902,886    74        664,980       1         7,128
Salaries                             165,404     180,610      189,455      158,601      160,149      854,419    38        326,594       9        79,369
Other operating fosts                 422797       71,312      79.871      105.829      1.4,?41      424,050    49        209,670      70        84,810
TOTAL                    318s949      63i,718      533f130     636.570      647,278   2.768.645    55       1,521j 014      9        75l,250
Il. Ox-drawn rultivation
Equipment                               -           3,507       2,698         -             135        6,340    32          2,045       9            593
Operating costs                         -           4,844        8,58        8580         8580        30.584     -           -         15         4,599
TOTAL                       -           8,351       11,278        8,580        8,715      36,974      6          2,045     14          5,19?
III.  Field Trials, Seed Multplication
and Training
Buildings                             12,280         -            -           -            -          17,780    40          4,911      10          1,298
Eauipment                             45,225          259          156      10,900          156       56,696    60         34,017      15          8,504
Operating costs                       85j 905     70,898       72,533       56.107       56,811      342,254    40        138 357      15         51109
TOTAL                    143,410       71,157       72,689       67.007      55,967      411,730    43         177i286     15         60,841
IV.  Monitoring and Evaluation                5,506        3,643        3,643      10,371        8,818       31 981    50         15,990      10          1,198
V. Feeder Roads Program
Workshop Building                       -          12,540         -           -            -          17,540    35          4,389      15          1,881
Workshop Equipment                      -          12,450         -           -            -          12,450    65          8,093      15          1,868
Road Building Ecuipment               49,385      157,181         -           -            -         206,566    74        152,870      20         41,?91
Road Construction and Maintenance       -         152,084     225,839      180,939      134,360      693,22?    70        479,035      14         97,050
Salaries                               1,294       15,008      15,008       15,008        ?s588       48.906    57         77,945       8          4,06?
TOTAL                     50,679      349,263      240,847      195.947      136,948     9732684    69         67?k317      15       146,154
VI. On-Farm Inputs
Seeds                                 16,560       19,665      72,770       28,980       37,760      125,235      =           -         -           -
Sprayers                               7,263       23,?40      24,692       14.525       73. 240      92,960    75         69770        8          6,977
Sub-total                 23,823       42,905       47,462      43,505       60.500      218.195    32          69,770       3         6,977
Fertili'ers                             -          99,117      78,246       68,310       80,730      326,398    90        294,244       -
Inse,ticides                            -         182,341      63030                         541     399 950    90        359955 
-        281453       138276       143,348      163,271      726,348    90        654-199      _
TOTAL                     23,823      324.3 8      185,738      186,853      223,771     944,543    77         723,919       1          6,972
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COSTS               542,367   1,389,490   1,047,325   1,105,328   1,082,497   5,167,007    60          3,112,586        9       473,607
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Physical rontingencies (62j           22,862       94,466      71,704       70,741       63,594      323,367    62        201,501       9         29,103  
Price 'ont4ngencies (17%)-              - -       114,433   _181,735       787,754      306,830      890,752    60         534,451       9        80,168      m
565,229   1,598,389   1,300.764   1,463,823   1,452,921   6.381.126    60          3,848,538       9        582,878
I/ See Main Report, para. 5.02.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECT COSTS - INVESTMENTS
HQ and Field Services
Buildings, Furniture, and Equipment
(in '000 CFAF)
Unit Cost
(in '000                                                                           Foreinn Exchane        Taxes
CFAF)         PY 1       PY 2        PY 3       PY 4       PY 5      Tot.I     f.al 2z                          Amount
A. BUILDINGS
Headquarters                   20,0         20,000                                                 20,000    40           8,000    10           2,000
Regional Storage Sheds         10,0                    30,000                                      30,000    60          18,000    15           4,500
Sector Storage Sheds            5,0                    35,000     20,000    15,000                 70,000    60          42,000    15          10,500
Village Storage Sheds           0,45                   90,000     72,000    72,000    72,000   306,000    60            183,600    15          45,900
Garage/Workahop                10,0                    10,000                                      10,000    40           4,000    10           1,000
Central Store                  10,0                   10,000                                       10,000    40           4,000    10           1,000
Housing (Senior Staff)          8,0                     8,000       8,000     8,000                24,000    40           9,600    10           2,400
(Region Chiefs)         5,0                     5,000      10,000      5,000               20,000    40           8,000    10           2,000
"   (Sector Chiefs)         4,0                    16,000      16,000    16,000       8,000    56,000    40          22,400    10           5,600
Extra transit lodgings          4.n                     8.000       8.000                          16.000    40           6400    10            1600
20.                       000   116.000    80,000   562.000    54          306,000    14          76.500
B. FI.NITURE & EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                        -
Headquarters                                 7,500                                                  7,500    50           3,750    15           1,125
Regional Offices                0,8                     2,400                                       2,400    50           1,200    15             360
Sector Offices                  0,3                     2,100       1,200     0,900                 4,200    50           2,100    15             630
Garage/workshop                                        10,000                                      10,000    70           7,000    15           1,500
Central Store                                             600                                         600    70             420    10              60
Housing Senior Staff            1,5                     1,500       1,500     1,500                 4,500    50           2,250    15             675
Region Chiefs           1,0                    1,000       2,000      1,000                 4,000    50           2,000    15             600            1f 
Sector Chiefs           0,7                    2,800       2,800      2,800      1,400      9,800    50          4,900    15            1,470     
Transit lodgings                                        1,500       1.500                           3.000    50           1,500    15             450               x
7.500    2i.900       9.000      6          1.400    46.000    55           25,120    15           6.870



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECT COSTS - INVESTMENTS
HQ & Field Services
Unit Price                     Vehicles, Trucks, and Trailers
Net of Taxes                                                                           Foreign Exchange          Taxes
('000 CFAF)     LY 1       IYY 2       PY 3       FI 4       PY 5        TOTAL    7%          Amount        %        Amount
VEHICLES
.3icycles                               25        1,500      8,500       3,500     6,250    11,500       31,250    70          21,875
2.ioters                               100       4,000      2,000       4,000      2,000      4,000      16,000    70          11,200
?i k-up Trucks                      1,300        13,000      6,500         -      13,000      6,500      39,000    75          29,250
.tion Wagons                         1,400        2,800      4,200       2,800      4,200     2,800      16,800    75          12,600
Sedans                               1,600        8,000      8,000         -        8,000     8,000       32,000    75         24,000
Four-wheel drive                     2,400       4.800       2400          -        7200      4.800       19.200    75         14.400
Subtotal              34,100    31.600       10,300    40.650    37.600    154.250    73            113.325
1/
I IICKS (for Cotton Transport)
Tractor and Trailer (12 tons)    10,000          30,000    70,000       70,000   140,000   170,000    480,000    75           360,000
7-ton trucks                        5,OOn       15,000    30 000        30 000    55.000    60.000    190.000    75           142.500
Subtotal              45,000    i00         l.ooo   1902ooo   230,ooo    67o,ooo    75              502.500
TOTAL                      79,100   131,600    110.300   235.650   267,600    824.250    75              615.825
Number of trucks required  12 t              3          6           6          il         14
1/                       Reserve                 -          1           1           3          3
Total                   3          7           7           _4       r7
7 t            3          5           5           9         10
Reserve                _           1           1           2          2
Total                   3          66l                               12
A. reserve unit has been added for every five units in operation. Number of trucks required in PY 4 includes
replacement of those procured in PY 1, in PY 5, replacement of those procured in PY 2. (See Annex                                                                    x
(See Annex                                        CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. 



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Project Costs: Other Investments
(in '000 CFAF)
Foreign Exchanae          Taxes
Unit Cost      pJ 1        PY 23 PY3              PY 4        PY 5         Total       %       Amount         %       Amount
('000 CFAF~
OX-DRAWN CULTIVATION
Pair of oxen             50                     1,300       1,000                              2,300
Tool bars                30                       780         600                              1,380       70          966        15         207
Seeders                  30                        390        300                                690       70         483         15         104
Ox carts                 60                       780         600                              1,380       30          414        15         207
Yoke, chain, cord etc.   5                         130        100                   130          360       30          108         15         54
Subtotal                            3,380      2.L600                  130        6.110       32        1.971          9        572
FIELD TRIALS AND SEED
MULTIPLICATION
Buildings: Seed testing lab.           2,000
Seed qtorage               2,250
Labor housing              71500
Subtotal               11i750                                                    11,750       40        4,700         10      1,175
Seed Multiplication equi»tw1        28,390                                 450                 28.840       60      17.304         1        4.326
Total                  40,140                                450                 40,590       54       22.004         14       5  01
Research Equipment: 1 /
Food crops                 8,785                              5,215
Cotton                    5.390                               4.690____
Subtotal               14.175                                                     24 080      60       l4.448        -15       3.612
TRAINING
Equipment                             1_.025         250        150         150       150        1.725       _                       _ __
Subtotal                1.025         250         150        150        50         1.725      60        1.35          15         259
TOTAL                  55,340       3. 630      2.7505                 280        72505                39_458                  9.944
1/  See Annex 9, Table 10       2/  See Annex 9, Table 11.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
TOGO - Cotton
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Existing Staff and Project Requirements
Existing    Addition.l Require-    Unit Cost    Total
Dec. 31,'76  nients under Project    CFAF '000    Existing
(Nationals) Nationals  Expatriate    per year   CFAF '000
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
General Manager               1                                  5,000        5,000
Dep. "    "                              1                       2,500
Technical Director                                  1           i4,ono
Dep.        "                            1                       1,800
Adm. & Fin. "                                       1
Dep. Adm.& Fin. "                        1                       1,500
Chief Personnel Serv.                    1                       1,500
Chief Accountant                         1                       1,800
Accountants                  10          5                         600        6,ooo
Clerks  Typists               8          7                         500        4,ooo
Guards                        5          5                         170          850
Subtotal      2          22          2                        15,850
TRAINING
Training Director                                   1           13,000
Dep. "                        1                                  1,500       1,500
Training Off. Notsé                                 1           10,000
Training Assistants                      5                       1,100
Clerks/Typists                           2                         500
3ubtotal       I          r                                     1,500
FIELD SERVICES
Region Chiefs                                       2            7,500
et   "l                    3         2                        1,200       3,600
Sector   "                   14                                    800      11,200
Subsector "                  62          5                         600      37,200
Extension Agents 1/         400        325 2/                      200      80,000
Clerks/Accountants            2        12                          500        1,000
Subtotal      1-        3            2                      133,000
MECHANICAL UNITS
Civil Works Technician                              1          13,000
Chief Mechanic                                      1          10,000
Asst. Chief Mechanic                     1                       1,200
Equipment Operators                     10                         300
Mechanics                               10                         300
Storekeepers                 10         10                         400       4,000
Drivers                      21         20                         250        5,250
Subtotal      31        51           2                        9,250
TOTAL    537        424          8                       159,600
J/  Maritime Region excluded.  2/  65 additional extension agents every year.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PiOJECT OPEATINO COSTS
Project Staff Requirements
Number           Unit Cost                                    Annual Cost (CFAF '000)                                      Foreis  Exchange              Taxes
Local  Expatrlate  (CFAF '000)        Py 1           PY 2           PY 3           PY 4           Py 5         Total           %          Amount          7        Amount
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Asst. General Manager              1                     2,500          2,500          2,500         2,500          2,500          2,500         12,500
Technical Director                            1         14,000         14,000         14,000        14,000             -              -          42,000         100         42,000
Dep. Technical Director            1                     1,800          1,800         1,800          1,800          1,800          1,800          9,000          -            -
Admin. & Financial Director                   1         13,000         13,000        13,000         13,000         13,000         13,000         65,000         100         65,000
Dep. Admin & Fin. Director         1                     1,500          1,500          1,500         1,500          1,500          1,500          7,500          -            -
Chief Personnel Service            1                     1,500          1,500         1,500          1,500          1,500          1,500          7,500          -            -
Chief Accountant                   1                     1,800          1,800          1,800         1,800          1,800          1,800          9,000          -            -
Accountants                        5                       600          3,000          3,000         3,000          3,000          3,000         15,000          -            -
Clerks & Typists                   7                       500          3,500         3,500          3,500          3,500          3,500         17,500          -            -
Guards                             5                       170            850            850           850            850            850          4,250          -            -
TRAINING
Training Director                            1         13,000         13,000         13,000        13,000             -             -           39,000         100         39,000
Training Officer Notse                       1         10,000         10,000         10,000        10,000            -              -           30,000         100         30,000
Training Assistants               5                     1,100          5,500          5,500         5,500          5,500          5,500         27,500          -            -
Clerks/Typists                    2                       500          1,ûOO         1,000         1,000          1,000          1,000         27,500          -            -
FIELD SERVICES
Region Chiefs  1/                            2          7,500         15,000         15,000         7,500            -              -           37,500         100         37,500
2/3                  1,200          2,400          2,400          3,600          3,600          3,600         15,600          -           -
Sub-section chiefs                S                       600          3,000         3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000         15,000          -            -
Extension Agents 2/             325                       200         13,000        26,000         39,000         52,000         65,000        195,000          -            -
Clerks/Accountants               12                       500          6,000          6,000         6,000          6,000          6,000         30,000          -            -
MECHANICAL UNrr
Civil Works Technician                       1        13,000          13,000         13,000        13,000          13,000            -          52,000         100         52,000
Chief Mechanic                               1        10,000          10,000         10,000        10,000          10,000         10,000        50,000         100         50,000
Asst. Chief Mechanic              1                     1,200          1,200          1,200         1,200            1,200          1,200        6,000          -            -
Operators/Mechanics              20                       300          6,000          6,000         6,000           6,000          6,000        30,000           -           -
Storekeepers                     10                       400          4,000          4,000         4,000           4,000          4,000        20,000           -           -
Drivers                          20                       250          5,000          5,000         5,000           5,000           5,000       25,000           -           -
Total                                             151.550        164.550        171.250         139,750        139,750       766.850          41       315,500          10       76,685
1/  Two expatriate Region Chiefs to be replaced in PY 3 and PY 4.
2/ At the rate of 65 each year.



TOGO
RURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECT OPERATING COSTS
(in '000 CFAF)
Foreign Exchange     Taxes
PY 1      PY 2      PY 3       PY 4        Y 5      Total       %   Amount        %   Amount
HQ, TRAINING. & FIELD SERVICES
Staff 1/                              151,550   164,550   171,250   139,750   139,750   766,850        41   315,500      10   76,685
Social charges on national staff        8,261      9,952    11,798    13.448    15,177    58.676        -      -           _
159.811   174.502   183,048   153,238   154,927   825.526       38   315.500       9   76.685
OPERATING COSTS
Rent, Maintenance                       3,520      6,020    12,820    19,400    26,800    68,560       25    17,140      20   13,712
Main & Regional Office
Expenditure                  4,000     5,000      6,000     7,000      8,000    30,000      25     7,500      20    6,000
Vehicle Op. Costs  2/                  24,920    42,000    42,480    43,140    43,860   196,400        60   117,840      20   39,280
Inputs transport                        3,910    10,880    10,870    27,710    36,380    89,750        60    53,850      20   17,950
Miscellaneous                           5,000      5,000     5,000      5,000     5,000    25,000      25      6,250     20    5,000
Subtotal                 41.350    68.900    77.170   102.250   120.040   409,710        49   202.580     20   81.942
OX-DRAWN CULTIVATION
Operating Costs  3/                                4,680     8,290      8,290     8,290    29,550                        15    4,433
FIEID TRIALS & SEED
MULTIPLICATION
Operating Costs  4/                    81.790    67,290    68.870    53.960    54,640   326,550        40   130,580      15   48,968
TRAINING
Operating Costs  5/                     1,210      1,210     1,210        250       250      4.130     75      3.098     10      413
1/ See Annex 9, Table 6.  2/  See Annex 9, Table 8.  3/  See Annex 9,  Table 9.   4/ See Annex 9, Table 10.  5/ See Annex 9,
Table 11.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Project Costs: Vehicle Operating Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Yearly
Unit        PY 1             PY 2             PY 3             PY 4             Py 5
Cost      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      No.  Amount      Total
Bicycle               6   (320)  1,920    (400)  2,400    (48o)  2,880    (590)  3,540    (710)  4,260          15,000
Motorcycle           60    (40)  2,400       (60)  3,600      (60)  3,600      (60)  3,600      (60)  3,600     16,800
Station Wagon     1,000    (10) 10,000       (15) 15,000     (15) 15,000      (15) 15,000      (15) 15,000      70,000
Pick-up Trucks    1,300      (2)  2,600       (5)  6,500       (5)  6,500      (5)  6,500        (5)  6,ooo     28,600
Sedan             1,000      (5)  5,000      (io) 10,000     (10) 10,000      (10) 10,000      (10) 10,000      45,000
Four-Wheel Drive  1,500      (2)  3,600       (3)  4,500       (3)  4,500      (3)  4,500        (3)  4,500     21,000
Total Cost               24,920           42,000           42p48o          43,14o            43,86o    196,4oo
(DX
OD \D



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
OX-DRAWN CULTIVATION
Investments and Operating Costs
('000 CAF)
I              ~~~~2                    3                       4                  5
Unit        Cost        No.      Cost       No.         Cost         No.         Cost         No. CCet            No.      Co5 t     Cost Total
I. SOTOCO-OX TRAINING
AND DEMONSTRATION TEAMS
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
Pair of Oxen                                    No.         50         -         -          26       1,300          20         1,000         -         -         -         -         2,300
Multipurpose Toolbar                            No.         30         -         -          26          780         20           600         -         -         -         -         1,380
Multipurpose Seeder                            No.          30         -         -          13          390         10           300         -         -         -         -           690
Ox Cart                                        No.          60         -         -          13          780         10           600         -         -         -         -         1,380
Yoke, Chain, Cord                               No.          5         -         -          26          130         20           100         -         -         26       130          360
Sub-Total                                 -           -          -         -          -         3,380         -          2,600          -        -         -        130        6,110
B. OPERATING COSTS
Ox Trainers                                    No.         144         -         -          26        3,740         46         6,630         46      6,630       46    6,630        23,630
Maintenance, Repairs                           No.          26         -         -          26          680         46         1,200         46      1,200       46    1,200         4,280
(26,000 CFAF/Team year)
Complementary Feed                             No.           5         -         -          52          260         92           460         92        460       92       460        1,640
(300 kg at 15 CFAF/Ox year)                                 -         -         -
Sub-Total                                                                                       4,680                    8,290                 8,290              8,290       29,550
TOTAL COSTS                               _-                     -         -          -         8,060                   10,890                 8,290              8,420       35,660
II. CREDIT TO FARMERS   1/
Multipurpose Toolbar                            No.         30         -         -          -           -           50         1,500        100      3,000      200    6,000        10,500
Ox Cart                                        No.          60         -         -          -           -           50         3,000        100      6,000      200   12,000        21,000
Yoke, Chain, Cord                               No.          5         -         -          -           -           50           250        100        500      200    1,000         1,750
TOTAL                                     -           -          -         -          -           -            -         4,750          -       9,500            19,000        33,250 l/
1/ For information purposes only; not included in project costs.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECT COSTS: FIELD TRIALS AD SEED PRODUCTION
(CFAF '000)
Unit         nY I              n2            PY 3           PY 4           Py 5
m2    CFAF/m2   Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost   No.  Cost    No.  Cost          No.   Cost           Total
CAPITAL COSTS
1. Buildings
Seed Testing Laboratory and Office (Atakpame)   80            25      2,000      1      2,000      -        -    -                                              2,000
Seed Store (Barkoissil                              150       15      2,250      1      2,250      -        -    -        -      -       -       -       -      2,250
*Labor Nouse (2 at each seed renter)                  50       25     1,250       6     7,500          -     -    -                                              7,500
Sub-total                                                                              11,750                                                                  11,750
2. Agricultural Machinery. Vehicles
a. Seeds: Equipment
Tractor 60-70 HP                                                      2,300      3      6,900      -        -    -         -     -       -       -       -       6,900
Trailer 5 t                                                             750      3      2,250      -        -    -               -               -       -       2,250
Rotary Slasher                                                          490      3      1,470      -        -    -                   -           -               1,470
Planter                                                                 600      3      1,800      -        -    -               -               -               1,800
Plough                                                                  400      6      2,400      -        -    -               -               -               2,400
Disc harrow                                                             300      6      1,800      -        -    -               -               -               1,800
Row Cultivator                                                          120      6        720      -        -    -               -               -                 720
Tine Cultivator                                                         120      3        360      -        -    -               -               -                 360
Peg Harrow                                                              130      3        390      -        -    -                   -           -                 390
Subsoiler                                                               150      3        450      -        -    -         -     -       -       -       -         450
Utility (Dozer) Blade                                                   200      3        600      -        -    -               _ -             - _               600
Fertilîzer Spreader                                                     100      3        300      -        -    -         -     -       -       -       -         300
Rotavator                                                               400      3      1,200      -        -    -               -       -       -       -       1,200
Motorcycles 90 ccm                                                      150      3        450      -        -    -         -     3       450    -        -         900
Seed Cleanera                                                           400      3      1,200      -        -    -         -     -       -       -       -       1,200
Seed Graders                                                            400      3      1,200      -        -    -         -     -       -       -               1,200
Seed Dressing Equipment                                                  80      3        240      -        -    -         -     -               -       -         240
Bag Closers                                                               70     3        210      -        -    -         -     -        -      -       -         210
lab Equipment                                                         2,200             2,200      -        -    -         -     _ -             - _             2,200
Fuel Storage                                                            750      3      2,250      -        -    -         -     -        -      -       -       2,250
Sub-total                                                                              28,390      -        -    -         -     -       450    -        -      28,840
b. Food Crop Research: Equipment
Car 1800 - 2000 ccm                                                   1,500      3      4,500      -        -    -         -     3    4,500    -         -       9,000
Pulveriser                                                                25     7        175      -        -    -         -     7       175    -        -         350
Sprayers                                                                 20      7        140      -        -    -         -     7       140    -        -         280
scales                                                                  150      7      1,050      -        -    -         -     -       -       -       -       1,050
Drying Floor                                                            200      7      1,400      -        -    -                -      -       -       -       1,400
lmprov. local seed stores                                                20    20         400      -        -    -         -    20       400    -        -         800
Generator                                                               250      1        250      -        -    -         -      -      -       -       -         250
Air-conditioner                                                          100     1        100      -        -    -         -      -       -      -                  100
Fuel tank                                                               110      2        220      -        -    -         -      -       -      -                 220
Balance                                                                 100      2        200      -        -    -         -      -      -       -       -         200
Microscope                                                               100     2        200      -        -    -         -      -       -       -                 200
Germination Box                                                           75     2        150      -        -    -         -      -      -       -       -         150
Sub-total                                                                -       -      8,785      -        -    -         -      -    5,215     -       -      14,000
c.  Cotton Research: Equipment                                                                                                                                                                es
Car 1800 - 2000 ccm                                                   1,500      3      4,500      -        -    -         -      3    4,500    -        -       9,000
Knapsack Sprayers                                                        20      7        140      -        -    -                7       140    -       -          280                         - s
ULV Sprayers                                                               7      7         50      -        -    -               7        50    -        -         100                           C
Balance                                                                  100     7        700          -      -         -         -       -       -                 700
Sub-total                                                                -              5,390      -        -    -         -      -    4,690      -      -      10.080
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                      -             54,315       -        -    -        -      -   10,355    -         -     64,670



TOCO
RURAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT IN COTITON AREAS
PROJECr COSTS: FIELD TRIALS AND SEED PRODUCTION
(CFAF '000)
oo'xiAPPRo O3STS                                  ~~~~~      ~~~~Unit  py 1     PY 2         PY 3          PY 4        ____
PERStNG C08TS                                                      Cost    IL.    Cnet       no.   2Cnt   No.  Cet   -No. Coet          No. Coet       Cost Total
a. Seeds Section
Seeds Agronamist (Techn.,  xpat.)                               14,700      1    14,700     1    14,700  1    14,700   -        -      -             44,100
Seeds Agronomist (Profes;.)                                      3,780      -       -       1      3,780  1     3,780   1    3,780    l    3,780   15,120
Seeds Analyst                                                    1,020      -       -       1      1,020  1     1,020   1    1,020    1    1,020    4,080
Seed Production Center Manager                                   1,020      3     3,060     3      3,060  3     3,060   3    3,060    3    3,060   15,300
Tractor Driver                                                      360     3     1,080     3      1,080  3     1,080   3    1,080    3    1,080    5,400
Labor Permanent                                                     80      6       480     6        480  6       480   6       480    6       480    2,400
Labor Casual                                                        80      -       -        -       -   10       800  10       800   10       800    2,400
Watchman                                                             80     3       240      3       240  3        240   3      240    3       240    1,200
Sub-total                                                          -        -    19,560      -    24,360  -    25,160   -   10,460    -   10,460   90,000
b. Food Crops Research
Research Agronomist (Profess., Expat.)                           19,300     1    19,300      -       -    -        -     -       -     -       -     19,300
Research Agronomist (Profess.)                                    3,780     2     7,560      2     7,560  2      7,560   2    7,560    2    7,560   37,800
OIC Research Substation                                            420      7     2,940      7     2,940  7     2,940   7    2,940    7    2,940   14,700
Driver                                                              360     3     1,080      3     1,080  3      1,080   3    1,080    3    1,080    5,400
Clerical Officer                                                    360     1       360      1       360  1       360   1       360    1       360    1,800
Secretary                                                          360      1       360      1       360  1       360   1       360    1       360    1,800
Labor 250 MD/ha, 42 ha                                          0.35/M            3,675            3,675        3,675         3,675          3,675   18,375
Sub-total                                                                        35,275           15,975       15,975        15,975         15,975   99,175
c. Cotton Research
Research Agronomist (Profess.)                                    3,780     1     3,780      1     3,780  1     3,780   1    3,780    1    3,780   18,900
Research Assistant (Techn.)                                       1,020     2     2,040      2     2,040  2     2,040   2    2,040    2    2,040   10,200
OIC Research Substation                                             420     7     2,940      7     2,940  7      2,940   7    2,940    7    2,940   14,700
Secretary                                                          360      1       360      1       360  1       360   1       360    1       360    1,800
Driver                                                              360     3     1,080      3     1,080  3      1,080   3    1,080    3    1,080    5,400
Labor 250 MD/ha, 46 ha                                           0.35/MH          4,025            4,025        4,025         4,025          4,025   20,125
Sub-total                                                                        14,225           14,225       14,225        14,225         14,225   71,125
2. Vehiclées
Tractor (1600 TN/year)                                           0.5/TH     3     2,400      3     2,400  3      2,400   3    2,400    3    2,400   12,000
Car (33 CFAF/km, 30,000 km/year)                                 1,000      6     6,000      6     6,000  6     6,000   6    6,000    6    6,000   30,000
Motorcycle (20 CFAF/km, 5000 km/year)                               100     3       300      3       300  3        300   3      300    3       300    1,500
Agric.Machinery (15% of purchase price/year)                        -      57     2,800    57      2,800 57      2,800  57    2,800   57    2,800   14,000
Sub-total                                                           _       _    11,500      -    11,500  -    11,500   -   11,50' b   11,500   57,500
3. Seed Production
Fertilizer, Chemical.                                            7.8/ha     -       -        -       -   60        470  50      390  110       860    1,720
SmaIl Equipment, Bage, etc.                                      3.5/ha     -       -        -       -   60        210  50      180  110       390      780
Sub-total                                                           -       -       -        -       -    -        680   -      570    -    1,250    2,500
4. Food Crop Research
Fertilizer, Chemicale                                            7.8/ha    42       330    42        330 42        330  42      330   42       330    1,650
Small Equipment etc.                                             5.0/ha    42       210    42        210 42        210  42      210   42       210    1,050
Sub-total                                                           -       -       540      -       540  -        540   -      540    -       540    2,700
5. Cotton Reaearch
Fertilizer, Chemicals                                           10.0/ha    46       460    46        460 46        460  46      460   46       460    2,300
Small Equipment                                                  5.0/ha    46       230    46        230 46        230  46      230   46       230    1,150
Sub-total                                                                   -       690      -       690  -        690   -      690    -       690    3,450
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                       -    81,790      -    67,290  -    68,770   -   53,960    -   54,640  326,450
Summary Seeds and Research                                                  -                                                                                             ,,
CAPITAL                                                                     _    54,315      -       -    _        _     _   10,355    -       -      64,670
OPERATING                                                                   -    81,790      -    67,290  -    68,770   -   53,960    -   54,640  326,450
TOTAL COST                                                                  -   136,105      -    67,290  -    68,770   -   64,315    -   54,640  391,120



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
COST OF TRAINING AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
('000 CFAF)
Unit        1              2               3              4              5
Unit          Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost                   Total
A. TRAINING
Equipment
Library                                     -             400             150            150            150             150            150            750
Photo                                       -             400             150             -              -               -              -              150
Audiovisual                                 -             150             100            100             -               -              -              200
Projectors, screens                         No.            80    5       400              -              -               -              -             400
Duplicating machine                         No.           150    1        150             -              -                              -             150
Blackboards, etc.                           No.             15    5        75                            -               -              -75
Sub-total                                                         1,025             250            150            150             150          1,725
Operating
Stationary, films, etc.                     -              -             250             250            250             250            250          1,250
Training in IITA Ibadan (3 x 6 months)   1 month          160    6        960    6       960    6       960              -              -           2,880
Sub-total                                                         1.210          1.210           1,210            250             250          4,130
Total                                                                  2,235           1,460          1,360             400            400          5,855
B. MONITORING, EVALUATION
Staff
Profess. Agroeconomist                      No.         1,100    1    1,100            1,100          1,100           1,100          1,100           5,500
Secretary                                   No.           500    1        500            500            500             500            500           2,500
Consultations from 1ITA Ibadan
(incl. research)                         MD             18   40       720             720            720             720            720          3,600
Operating Cost (incl. car)                                             1,200           1,200          1,200           1,200          1,200           6,000
Other Consultant Services                                                                                             5,000          5,000          10,000
Sub-total                                                         3,520          3,520           3,520          8,520           8,520         27,600
Investments
Vehicle                                     No.         1,500    1    1,500              -               -            1,500             -            3,000
Office equipment                            -              -              300            _               _              -               _              300
Sub-total                                                         1,800             -              -             1,500            -            3,300
Total                                                                   5,320          3,520          3,520          10,020           8,520         20,900



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
AGRICULTURAL INPUT REQUIREMENTS (INCREMENTAL)
Without                   Under the Proiect                                             After the Project
UNIT     Project  PY 1         PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PY 5         PY 6        PY 7        PY 8        PY 9       PY 10
A.  FERTILIZER
Cotton (NPKSB)                    t               1,450       2,360       3,010       3,640       4,530        5,240       5,440       5,440       5,440       5,440
Cotton (Urea)                     t                  20          40         410         690          880       1,060       1,330       1,590       1,590       1,590
(Cotton Subtotal)                 t              (1,470)     (2,400)     (3,420)    (4,330)    (5,410)       (6,300)      (6,770)     (7,030)     (7,030)     (7,030)
Maize (Urea)                      t                 -            -           130         240         370         530         630         760         890       1,020
Sorghum (Urea)                    t                 -           -             50         80          120         160         200         240         280         320
(Urea Subtotal)                   t                 (20)        (40)       (590)    (1,010)      (1,370)     (1,750)      (2,160)     (2,590)     (2,760)     (2,930)
Groundnuts (Rock Phosphate        t                 -            160        220         270          320         360         410         420         430         430
Fertilizer Total                  t        964    1,470       2,560       3,820       4,920       6,220        7,350       8,010       8,450       8,630       8,800
B.  INSECTICIDES                       '000 1 107        280         350         430         530         640         640          640         640         640         640
C.  COTTON SPRAYERS
a.  ULV (new purchase)            No.              (500)     (1,600)     (1,700)    (1,500)       (2,700)     (1,700)     (1,500)     (2,700)     (1,700)     (1,500)
ULV (total)                   No.               500       2,100       3,800       4,800       5,900       5,900        5,900       5,900       5,900       5,900
b.  Knapsack (new purchase)       No.               -            -          (500)        -           -          (500)        -           -           (500)        -
Knapsack (total)              No.             2,900       1,400         500         500          500         500         500         500         500         500
Sprayers Total                    No.             3,400       3,500       4,300       5,300       6,400        6,400       6,400       6,400       6,400       6,400
D.  DMPROVED SEED
Cotton                            t                 500          630         760         950       1,140       1,140       1,140       1,140        1,140       1,140
Maize (Fl)                        t                  -           -            30          20          60          40          90           65         115          95
Sorghum (F1)                      t                 -            -             9          10          16          18          24           26          32          34
Groundnuts (F1)                   t                 -            -           160          60         200         120         240          170         250         180
Seed Subtotal (FP)                t                 500         630         960       1,040        1,420       1,320       1,495       1,400       1,540        1,450
Seed Total (F1 + F2)              t                 500          630         960      1,240        1,510       1,600       1,670       1,760        1,800       1,850
E.  SEED DRESSING                      t                   1         1.3         2.0         2.5         3.0          3.2         3.4         3.5         3.6         3.7
o
r O



TOGO
RURAL DEVEL0PMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
ON-FARM INPUTS: Fertilizers and Insecticides
(in '000 CFAF)
Without
Project        PY l          PY 2          PY 3          PY 4         PY 5
I.    Fertilizers
Without proJect (t)                     964          964           964           964           964           964
Total requirements (t)                  964        1,470         2,560         3,820         14,920       6,220
Project incrmrntl. reqs. (t)           -             506         1,596         2,_856        3,956         5,256
Cost at CFAF 60/kg
Without project                      57,840       57,840        57,840        57,840        57,840        57,840
Project incrmntl. reqs. 1/             -          30,360        95,760       171,360       237,360      315,360
Total                 57,840      _88,_200      153,600       229,200       295,200       373,200
Farmers' cost at CFAF 15/kg          14,460       22,050        38,400        57,300        73,800       93,300
Subsidy at CFAF 45/kg                43,380       66,150       115,200       171,900       221,400      279,900
57,840       88,200       153,600       229,200      295,200       373,200-
III.   Insecticides
Without project ('000 1)                107          107           107           107           107           107
Total requiremnts  "                    107          280           350           430           530           640
Project ineremental reqs.                _           173           2             323           423           533
Cost at CFAF 725/1
Without project                      77,575       77,575        77,575        77,575        77,575        77,575
Project incrmntl. reqs.                -         125,425       176,175       234,175       3o6,675       386,425
Total                 77,575      203,300       253,750       311,750       384,250       464,ooo
Farmers' cost at CFAF 400/1          42,800      112,000       140,000       172,000       212,000       256,000
Subsidy at CFAF 325/1                34,775       91,000       113,750       139,750       172,250       208,000
77,575      203,000       253,750       311,750       384,250       464,ooo
III.  Total Fertilizers and
Insecticides
Farmers cost                         57,260      134,050       178,400       229,300       285,800       349,300   x
Subsidy                              78,155      157,150       228,950       311,650       393,650       487,900  i
135,415      291,200       407,350       540,950       679,450       837,200
1/  The cost of additional quantities from year to year is shown in line Bl. of Table 14.



ANNEX 9
Table 14
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SPECIAL ACCOUNT FOR PROCUREMENT OF INPUT SUPPLIES
Resources and Applications
(in '000 CFAF in constant terms)
PY 1     PY 2     PY 3       Py 4     PY 5        PY 6
A. Cost of Yearly Purchases:
Without project: Fertilizers    57,840   57,840   57,840    57,840    57,840
Insecticides   77,575   77,575   77,575    77,575    77,575
Subtotal   135,415  135,415  135,415   135,415   135,415   135,415
Project incrmntl:Fertilizers    30,360   95,760  171,360   237,360   315,360
Insecticides  125,425  176,175  234,175   306,675   386,425
Subtotal   155,785  271,935  405,535   544,035   701,785   769,585
TOTAL YEARLY PURCHASES          291,200  407,350  540,950   679.450   837,200   905,000
B. Resources of special account:
1. Incremental project reqs.             271,935  133,600   138,500   157,750
2. Govt.:Initial Deposit        300,000
Subsidies for year    157,150  228,950  311,650   393,650   487,900
3. Farmers (for previous year)           134,050  178,400   229,300   285,800
Balance brought forward                49,800  143,785    87,985    12 235
Subtotal   457,150  684,735  767,435   849,435   943,685
Less: yearly purchases 1/   407,350  54o,95o  679,450   837,200   905,000
Balance carried forward       49,800  143,785   87,985    12,235    38,685
c. TOTAL GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
1. Incremental project reqmnt.
(Project financed, Govt.,              65,265   32,065    33,240    37,860
share 24%).
2. Initial Deposit              300,000     -         -         -          -
3. For subsidies                157,150  228,950  311,650   393,650   487,900
TOTAL      457,150  294,215  343,715   426,890   525,760
1/ Annual purchases will have to be made in August of the preceding year.



ANNEX 9
Table 15
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SOTOCO's Financing Plan
(in current CFAF million)
Indicating schedule of
Government's required payments
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
A)  SOTOCO's Estimated Expenditure
Ongoing costs                          140      150       160       172      185
Additional costs
(investment and oper. expenses)
for the Project 1/                     565    1,275    1,128    1,275    1,234
Total                           705    1,425    1,288    1,447    1,419
B.) Fumds and Revenues Available
to SOTOCO
SOTOCO's resources on Jan. 1, 1977   135        -         -         -        -
FAC and IDA constributions
towards Project financing             292      951       861       965      933
Government required payments           275      474       427       482      486
Total                           702    1,425    1,288    1,447    1,419
1/  Net of payments to be made by the Borrower into the Special Account for
Inputs procurement.



ANNEX 9
TOGO                                    Table 16
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PROJECT FINANCING
Annual Commitments (CFAF millions)
PY 1-/   PY 2      PY 3      PY 4      PY 5    Total
TOTAL
HQ and Field Services.?J  343        676       580       681       708    2,988
Ox-drawn Cul.               -          8        il         9         9        37
Field Trials, etc.         143        71        73        67        57       411
Monitoring and Ev.           6         4         4        10         9        33
Feeder Roads                51       349       241       196       137       974
On Farm Inputs-/            -        281       139       143       163       726
Subtotal      5>43    1,389    1,048    1,106    1,083    5,169
Contingencies               22       209       253       358       370    1,212
Total         565    1,598    1,301    1,464    1,453    6,381
FAC
HQ and Field Services       68       132       114       133       139       586
Ox-drawn Cul.               -          2         2         2         2         8
Field Trials, etc.          28        14        14        13        il        80
Monitoring and Ev.           1         1         1         2         2         7
Feeder Roads                10        69        46       - 39       27       191
On Farm Inputs              -         55        27        28        32       142
Subtotal      107       273       204       217       213    1,014
Contingencies                4        31        6         70        73       239
Total         111       304       265       287       286    1,253
IDA-/
HQ and Field Services    110         377       324       381       395    1,587
Ox-drawn Cul.               -          4         6         5         5        20
Field Trials, etc.          46        40        41        38        32       197
Monitoring and Ev.           2         2         2         6         5        17
Feeder Roads                16       195       135       110        77       533
On Farm Inputs                       158        78        81        92       409
Subtotal      174       776       586       621       606    2,763
Contingencies                7       116       141       201       207       672
Total         181       892       727       822      813    3,435
GOVT
HQ and Field Services    165         167       142       167       174       815
Ox-drawn Cul.               -          2         3         2         2        il
Field Trials, etc.          69        17        18        16        14       134
Monitoring and Ev.           3         1         1         2         2         9
Feeder Roads                25        85        60        47        33       250
On Farm Inputs                        68        34        34        39
Subtotal      262       340       258       268      264    1,392
Contingencies               il        62        51        87        90       301
Total         273       402       309       355       354    1,693
1/  For IDA commitments, starting from Credit signature.
2/ Including seeds and sprayers.
3/ Fertilizers and Insecticides only.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Government Cash Flow
(in CFAF Million)
PY 1        PY 2      PY 3      PY 4       PY 5       PY 6       PY 7       PY 8       PY 9      PY lO
I. SOURCE OF FUNDS
A. Government Revenues 1/
Export taxes (lint & seed)                          26         60      105        160        224        263        294        328         351
OPAT surplus                                       294        536      904      1.387      1.977      2.301      2.699      3,070       3,347
Subtotal                                     320        596    1.009       1.547     2.201      2.564      2,993      3,398       3.698
B. External Financing
IDA Credit                                       i.n73        727      822        573        240
FAC Grant                              111         304        265      287        286         -
1        .1,377       992    1,109         799        240
Subtotal
C.  Total Sources of Funds                 1         1,697      1.588    2.118      2,346      2.441      2.564      2.993      3.398       3.698
II.  APPLICATION OF FUNDS
A. Proiect Costs 2/
HQ and Field Services                  302         662        603       767        791       353        382        386        418         459
Research and ox-drawn Cultivation   136             82         95        92        79         53         56         60         65          69
Evaluation Unit                          5           4          4        13         il         il         14        13         14          15
Input subsidies                        180         270       357       443        562        599        625        662        656         661
Feeder Roads Program                    48         365        272      236        168         62         66         71         76          81
Subtotal                         671       1,383      1,331    1.551       1,611      1.078      1.143      1,192      1_229       t1&28
B. Debt Service
IDA Credit (Commitment charges)          1           8         14       20         24         26         26         26         26          26
C.  Total Application of Funds             672        L39l     ,L345    1,571        1.635      1,004     1,169      1.218       1.355      1.311
Net Annual Cash Flow                  (561)        306        243       548        711     1,437      1,395      1,775      2,143       2,387
Cumulative Cash Flow                              (255)       (12)      536     1,247      2,684      4,079      5,854      7,997      10,384         o
1/    On incremental production (see Table 2, Annex 10).
2/    Net of taxes.



T~ _
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Financial Results of Cotton Marketing
(CFAF million, in current prices)
PY 1    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5       py 6    PY 7    PY 8    PY 9   PY 10
INCREMENTAL PRODUCLLON (tons)
Seedcotton                      3,478   7,443  12,049  17,219  22,486   24,738  25,823  26,919  26,919  26,919
Lint        40n                 1,391   2,977   4,820   6,888   8,994    9,895  10,329  10,768  10,768  10,768
Cotton seed 55%                 1,913   4,094   6,627   9,470  12,367   13,606  14,203  14,805  14,805  14,805
PRICES (CFAF/kg)
Cotton (Producer) 1/            53.50   57.25   61.26   65.55   70.14    75.05   80.30   85.92   91.93   98.37
Lint   (CIF)      2/           346.99  326.98  346.78  372.85  398.95   426.88  456.76  488.73  522.95  559.55
Seed   (CIF)      2/            27.84   28.74   29.63   30.81   36.17    42.14   48.40   55.72   63.83   68.30
COSTS TO CIF
Purchase of seed cotton           186      426     738   1,129   1,577    1,931   2,074   2,313   2,475   2,648
Buying, Transport and
Cormissions                30      69      120     184     257       302     338      377     403      431
Total costs to CIF              2l      495    8-    1,313   1,834   2,233   2            2,690       7    3,079
RECEIPTS
Sale of Lint                      483     973   1,671   2,568   3,588    4,224   4,718   5,263   5,631   6,025
Sale of Seeds                      53     118      196     292      447      573      687     825      945   1,011
Total receipts 3/               536   1,091   1,867   2,860   4,035    4,797   5,405   6,o88   6,576   7,036
NET PROFITS                          320      596   1,009   1,547   2,201    2,564   2,993   3,398   3,698   3,957
of whihb                                                                                                                D
Export Taxes                       26       60     105     160      224      263      294     328      351     376        1-
OPAT surpluL                      294      536     904   1,387   1,977    2,301         2,699   3,070   3,347   3,581     c
320     596   1,009   1,547   2,201    2,564   2,993   3,398   3,698   3,957
1/  Assuming that price is adjusted annually according to the inflation factor (7%).
2/ Net of processing charges, freight and export expenses (See Table 3, Annex 11).
3/ All revenues accruing in any one year have been tabulated in the Cash Flow in the following year.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Post-Project Costs _/
('000 CFAF)
Year 6        Year 7       Year 8         Year 9        Year 10       Total              Tax
%.     Amount
HQ and Field Services               299,690       303,090       285,990       291,290       297,390    1,477,450       16      236,392
Research and ox-drawn cultivation  44,290          44,290        44,290        44,290        44,290       221,450      15      33,217
Evaluation                            8,520        10,020         8,520         8,520         8,520        44,100      10        4,410
Subsidies on Inputs                 598,550       625,450       662,050       656,150       661,000    3,203,200       -          -
Sub-total                      951,050       928,850    1,000,850    1,000,250    1,011,200    4,946,200           5     264,019
Feeder Roads Maintenance              41,40         41,400        41,400        41,400        41,400       207,000      10       20,700
Total                          992.450       024            42250    1,041.650    1,052,600    5,153,200           6      284,.719
1/    In constant 1977 terms; costs have been inflated by 7% compounded annually in the Cash Flow Table (except for inputs).



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Financial Benefits
Project incremental income in foreign currency
LINT                                        SEEDS
Project     Net
PRICES                                          Total                                     Total Total   Costs in  Foreign
IN       Quantity   Ref.    Less      Net      Income              Ref.  Less   Net      Income Proj.   Foreign   Exchange
CURRENT            Price   Freight   Income    Mill.  Quantity   Price Freight Income   Mill. Income   Exch.       Income
TERMS       (t)     $/MT     etc.    $/MT        $       (t)       $/MT  etc.   $/MT       $   Mill.$   Mill.t    Mill.$
PY 2      1,391   1,680     106     1,574      2.19     1,913     200    32      168     0.32    2.51      2.43    o.o8
PY 3      2,977   1,802     122     1,680      5.00     4,094     212    34      178    n073    5.73       2.35    3.38
py 4      4,820   1,944     130     1,814      8.74     6,627     224    37      187     1.24    9.94      2.69    7.25
Py 5      6,888   2,081     139     1,942    13.38      9,470     253    39      214     2.03   15.41      2.94   12.47
PY 6      8,994   2,226     149     2,077    18.68    12,367      285    42      243     3.00   21.68      3.80   17.88
Py 7      9,895   2,382     159     2,223    22.00    13,606      319    45      274     3.73   25.73      4.21   21.52
PY i    10,329   2,549      170     2,379    24.57    14,203      358    47      311     4.42   28.99      4.58   24.41
PY 9    10,768   2,727      182     2,545    27.40    14,805      401    52      349     5.17   32.57      4.90   27.67
Py 10   10,768   2,918      195     2,723    29.32    14,805      4.9    55      374     5.54   34.86      5.30   29.56
Py 11 1/ 10,768   3,122     209     2,913    31.37    14,805      459    59      400     5.92   37.19      5.73   31.46
77,598                              182.65   lo6,695                           32.10             38.93  175.68
1F3
1/   For PY 10 production.
FD H



ANNEX 11
Page 1
TOGO
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Markets and Prices
The Outlook for Cotton
Summary
1.        Cotton supplies from the record 1974/75 1/ world crop came to
market as mill activity was declining at the outset of the 1974/75 recession.
Consequently cotton prices declined throughout calendar year 1974. Cotton
prices were low relative to costs of production and in relation to alternative
crop prices early in 1975, when 1975/76 cotton planting decisions were made.
Cotton growers, therefore, shifted a large acreage to food and oil seed crops
and cotton production declined even more sharply than had consumption in the
previous season, liquidating excess stocks. Cotton prices recovered during
most of calendar year 1975, but late in the year a sharp rise in prices
resulted from deteriorating crop prospects in areas that were reaching the
harvesting stage early in 1976. Therefore, 1976/77 cotton planting decisions
were made in the light of cotton prices that were favorable in comparison both
to cost of production and to the prices of alternative crops. Although a
large shift of acreage back to cotton in 1976/77 is anticipated, the continued
recovery in consumption should keep supplies relatively tight at least until
the 1977/78 crop is harvested. Accordingly, cotton prices in constant terms
are projected at slightly above their long-run equilibrium levels during 1976
and 1977. Late in the 1970s and early in the 1980s the price of Mexican
Strict Middling 1-1/16 inch quality is projected at 53 cents per pound in
constant 1974 dollars, compared with 48 cents during 1975.
The Demand Outlook
2.        World cotton consumption declined by five percent in 1974/75 from
the previous season's record level. Mill use of cotton declined by 14 percent
in the developed countries and by five percent in the developing countries.
The moderate uptrend in cotton consumption in the centrally planned economies
continued during 1974/75. Recovery in cotton textile activity in most areas
during 1975, with the notable exception of Western Europe, is expected to
raise cotton consumption during the 1975/76 season to near the 1973/74 level.
Positive rates of growth in consumption are projected from 1976 to the mid-
eighties. This projection of world cotton consumption is consistent with
expected income and population growth and income elasticities of per capita
consumption of 0.1 in the developed countries and 0.5 in the developing
countries 2/. In the absence of income projections in the centrally
1/ The cotton crop year is August through July.
2/ Unpublished Cotton Study, Commodities Division, IBRD.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
planned countries, cotton consumption projections are based on historical
trends ajusted for the increasing market share of man-made fibers in Eastern
Europe and the USSR.
3.        Mill consumption of cotton is expected to continue expanding at
a faster rate in the developing countries than in the other regions. This
expansion is enhanced by higher income elasticities in the domestic markets
and the trade policies embodied in the "Multi-Fiber Arrangement Regarding
Trade in Textiles", which permits an annual increase in exports of not less
than six percent 1/ of these textile products under trade restraint in
"protected" markets. Thus, the developing countries will progressively
account for larger shares of total mill consumption of cotton.
4.        Although cotton may have improved its market share during the
1974/75 recession, it will continue to face intense competition from the
man-made fibers over the next decade.  The main threat to cotton's markets
is from the synthetic fibers, particularly polyester staple.  Polyester
staple is highly price-competitive with cotton in the United States but
somewhat less so in the other developed countries. In many developing cotton
producing countries polyester fibers are produced only in small-scale, high
cost plants, and the inroads into cotton's markets have been restricted to a
narrow range of products.  Competition for cotton from the cellulosic fibers
has eased during the last two years as increased costs of pulp, electric
power, capital equipment and pollution control have been particularly heavy.
Consequently world production of rayon and acetate fell by over 17 percent
from 1973 to 1975.  Over the longer term, the synthetic fiber producers plan
expansions in capacity sufficient to supply the bulk of total fiber require-
ments, and cotton's ability to compete profitably will depend largely on
improved productivity in production and its technical acceptability for
processing and in consumer goods.
The Supply Outlook
5.   Cotton production over the last two decades has increased at a rate of
about two percent per year despite wide annual fluctuations due to variable
growing conditions and economic factors. Over this period virtually all of
the increase in production has been due to higher yields. During the early
1970s favorable economic conditions prevailed and cotton production expanded
at a rate of 4.1 percent per annum between 1970/71 and 1974/75.  At the same
time, however, the world food situation became precarious and higher food
crops shifted some 7.0 million acres out of cotton production in 1975/76.
This shift combined with lower yields reduced world cotton production by over
14 percent compared with 1974/75. Sharply lower production concurrent with a
recovery in consumption this season indicates a low carryover into the 1976/77
season - equivalent to only about 4.2 months supply. Hence, in the near term
the price outlook for cotton is very firm.
1/ Compared with world demand growth at around 4 percent.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
6.        Prospects are that cotton production during 1976/77 will recover
sharply from last season's low level. Cotton prices are favorable in relation
to costs of production and compared with those of competitive crops. Cotton
growers in the United States indicated that based on conditions as of April 1,
1976 they would increase cotton plantings by 17 percent compared to last year.
Expectations of cotton acreage expansions of smaller proportions in other
countries are consistent with historical short-run supply elasticities 1/.
7.        In a longer-term context, it appears that a faster rate of expansion
in cotton production is more likely to occur in the developing countries 2/,
where manufacturing capacities are increasing fastest and the potential
productivity gains from the application of present technology are greatest.
The centrally planned economies accounted for 37 percent of world output during
the last three years and there are no indications of any change in the policy
of giving a high priority to expanded cotton production.
The Price Outlook
8.        Cotton prices in constant (1974) dollar terms declined by about
one-fourth from the mid-fifties to the mid-sixties. Price trends were then
fairly flat from the mid-sixties through 1972 except for a temporary weakness
during 1969/70. During the 1973 commodity price boom, cotton prices rose
in real terms to the highest level since 1955. Although prices declined
throughout 1974 the year's average was still relatively high. Early in 1975
cotton prices were below production costs for many producers and the sharp
reduction in output permitted prices to rise gradually. Even so, the 1975
average in constant terms was the lowest in two decades. The smaller 1975
crop and recovering consumption tightened the supply position, and prices
during the first quarter of 1976 were nearly a fifth higher than during the
last quarter of 1975. Supplies coming to market during the first three
quarters of 1976 will remain disappointingly light in view of the upswing in
consumption, and the short-term price outlook is firm. The present price
projection is based on the assumption that the increase in production in
1976/77 will be offset by rising consumption and that the reestablishment of
supply/demand equilibrium at around the long-run level will occur with the
1977/78 harvest. Accordingly cotton prices are forecast at slightly above the
long-run level during 1976 and 1977. In the late seventies and early eighties
the expected price level for Mexican Strict Middling 1-1/6 inch cotton, c.i.f.
North Europe, is 53 cents per pound in constant 1974 US dollar terms. Costs
1/ World Demand Prospects for Cotton in 1980, Foreign Agricultural Economic
Report No. 000 ERS, USDA, Washington, January 1971.
2/ Of the 62 developing cotton producting countries, cotton lint alone
accounts for more than 10 percent of total export earnings in 16 countries,
11 of which have average per capita incomes of under $200. From 1955 to
1973 cotton production grew at an annual rate of 3.3 percent in the
developing countries compared with -1 percent in developed countries and
3.0 percent in the centrally planned economies.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
of producing cotton in constant terms should level off by the late 1970s
as lower fertilizer costs and rising productivity offset other cost increases.
On the demand side, competitive pressure from the man-made fibers will keep
cotton prices near their long-run cost levels. This price projection is
consistent with the long-term trends and with the historical relationship
between US production costs and the c.i.f. North Europe quotation for Mexican
SM 1-1/16 inch quality 1/.
1/ This price projection is not relevant to the extra-long staples which are
used mainly in sewing thread and in the finer goods. The demand for ELS
cottons has been even more seriously affected by synthetic fiber than has
the demand for the medium staples.



Annex Il
Table l
COTTON: GROWTH R&TES OF PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION AND TRADE
1960/62 to 1972/74   1972/74 to 1980   1981 to 1985
PRODUCTION
Developed                          0.0                 0.0              0.2
Developing                         2.3                 0.9              3.8
Centrally Planned                 4.8                  1.9              3.0
World                              2.3                 1.1              2.6
CONSUMPTION
Developed                         -0.8                -1.4              0.0
Developing                         3.9                 3.0              3.9
Centrally Planned                  3.9                 2.8              3.0
World                              2.1                 1.7              2.6
XPMRTS
Developed                          1.0                 1.0              1.0
Developing                         0.3                 0.4              1.0
Centrally Planned                  5.3                 2.9              2.7
World                              1.2                 1.2              1.2
IMtORTS
Developed                         -0.6                -1.2             -0.5
Developing                         4.7                 3.3              2.9
Centrally Planned                  3.5                 3.0              2.5
World                              1.3                  1.2             1.2
Source: Ebonomic Analysis and ProJections Department



COIrTON   SUffBY OF PRODUCTION  COIISUMPTIoU AliD TRUDE BY AZ RES
(millllon Kg5
;beaSOn AUg.-.JLL
ACTUAL                                      ESIIATED                PROJECTED
Average
1960/61   1967/68-1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/7h   1974/75    1975/76    1976/77           19d0/81   1985/86
PRODUCTION
Developed                 3,426          2,685        2,821     3,026     3.775     3,568     3,367       2,502      3,100            3,570     3,600
Developing                3 808          4,855        4,430     5,285     5 265     5,114      5,259      4,588      5,100            5,530     6,650
Centrally Planned         2,926          3,831        4,332     4,486     4,2L9      4,748    4,989       4,900      5,000            5.400     6,250
World                    10,160         11,371       11,583    12,797    13,289    13,430   13,615      11,990      13,200           14,500   16,500
CO NSUMPTION
Developed                 4,380          4,306        4,240     4,259     4,190     4.158     3,562       3.800      3.900            3.600     3.600
Developing                2,1429         3.315        3,173    3,613      3,868      4,174    3,980       4,280      4,600            b.900     5.950
Centrally Planned         3,4°O         U4208         41473     4.633     4,766     4.957      5.107      5.140      5.200            6,ooo    6.950
Wdorld                   10,209         11,829       12,186    12.505    12,824    13.289    12.649      13,220     13,700           14.500    16.500
EXPORTS
Developed                 1,609          1,065        1.192     1,162     1 569    1,624       1,127      1,100                       1,550     1,630
Developing                1,706          2,093        2,090     2.168     2,176     1,835      1,831      1,8140                      2,000     2.100
Centrally Plonned          h424            523          550       626       670       740        675        760                         850       970
World                     3.739          3.681        3,832     3.956     4.1415    4,199      3.633      3.700                       4,400     4.700
IMHORTS
Developed                 2,407          2,174        2,137     2,147     2,355     2,129      1,779      1,800                       1,900     1,850
Developing                  530            718          895       846       894     1,013        854        900                       1,150     1,325
Centrally Planned           742            821          977       970     1,189    1,164         976      1.000                       1,350     1,525
World                     3,679          3,713        4,009     3,963     4,1438    4,306      3,609      3,700                        4,400    4.700
Source:  Actuai USDA, Estimated and Projected Economie Analysil and Pro.e!ctions DeparTtent
(D H
roH



Annex 11
Table 3
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
DETAILED PRICE CALCULATION FOR COTTON - 1977
Lint          Seed   Total Seed
Cotton
Reference Price ($/MT)                    1719  2/    189 3/
Reference Price (CFAF/MT)  4/           421155       46305
Less Quality   5/                        17000          -
Net Reference Price  6/                 404155       46305
Freight, Insurance and Handling          26000       12800
FOB Lome                                378155       33505
Port Charges                              1560         700
Transport and Handling                    4306        4463
Insurance                                 3300         500
Value pre-factory                       368989       27842
Ginning Costs                            22000          -
After Ginning Value                     346989          -
Yield                                      40%         55%
Equivalent Value Seed Cotton            138796       15313     154109
Buying and Transport                                              7515
Economic Farm Gate Value                                       146594
Producer Price                                                   50000
Commissions                                                       1200
Taxes                                                             7592
OPAT Surplus                                                     87802
1/ Detailed example. For summary calculations by Year see Table 2.
2/ World Bank Commodity Price Projections, November 1976. Based on
Mexican Strict Middling 1-1/16" c.i.f. `N. Europe. Prices in 1977 terma.
3/  World Bank Commodity Price Prolections, August 1976, based on market
outlooks for cotton seed oil and cottonseed expeller. Price in 1977
constant terms
4/ At Exchange Rate of CFAF 245:US$
5/ Quality differential to allow for staple and grade variation. Based
on FAC and CFDT reports.
6/  Marketing and Handling costs based on Mission estimates



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR COTTON 1977-1986
(in 1977 constant terms)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Reference Pricp ($/MT)
a) L. t 2d                     1719    1550    1539    1545    1545        1545    1545    1545    1545    1545
b) 5  d 3/                      189      185      181     178      188       198     207      217      227     227
Net Reference Price (CFAF/MT)
a) Lint -                    404155  362750  360055  361525  361525   361525  361525  361525  361525  361525
b) Seed 4!/                   46305   45325   4. 345   43610   46060    48510   50715   53165   55615   55615
Equivalent value seed
cotton after ginning
a) Lint                      138796  122234  121156  121744  121744   121744  121744  121744  121744  121744
b) Seed                       15313   14774   14235   13831   15178    16526   17739   19086   20434   20434
Total                  154109  137008  135391  135575  136922   138270  139483  140830  142178  142178
Buying and Transport                 7515    7515    7515    7515    7515        7515    7515    7515    7515    7515
Economic Farmgate Value           146594  129493  127876  128060  129407   130755  131968  133315  134663  134663
Producer Price                      50000   50000   50000   50000   50000    50000   50000   50000   50000   50000
Commissions                         1200    1200    1?00    1200    1200         1200    1200    1200    1200    1200
Taxes                                7592    7592    7592    7592    7592        7592    7592    7592    7592    7592
OPAT Surplus                       87802   70701   69084   69084   70615    71963   73176   74253   75871   75871
1/  For example of full calculation see Table 1.
2/  Bank Commodity Price Projections, November 1976.  Based on Mexican Strict Middling 1-1/16" cif Europe.
3/  Bank Commodity Projections; August 1976, based on market outlooks for cottonseed oil and cottonseed expeller.
TV! At exchange rate of CFAF 245:US$. For Lint a reduction of CFAF 17,000/MT has been made to adjust for a                  H
quality differential due to a staple and grade variation (estimated from FAC and CFDT reports).                        (D
* s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE COTTON AREAS
REFERENCE PRICES FOR FOOD CROPS  1/
(1977 Constant Prices)
1977           1978         1979        1980         1981          1982         1983        1984         1985 on
Maize ($/MT)    2/                                   120.0          124.9         126.6       125.6       125.6          125.6       125.7       125.7        125.7
Sorghum ($/MT)  3/                                   110.0          110.0         112.0      111.0        111.0          110.9       110.9       110.8        110.8
Groundnuts ($/MT)  4/                                420.0          372.1         376.6       377.6       394.0         410.5        426.9       443.3        459.8
1/  World Bank Cor odity Price Projections; November 1976; in 1977 Constant Dollars.
(1981 - 1984 Prices based on linear trend between 1980 and 1985 forecasts).
2/ U.S. No. 2, yellow, f.o.b. Gulf Ports
/ U.S. No. 2, Milo yellow, f.o.b. Gulf Ports
4/  Nigerian c.i.f. Europe



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE COTTON AREAS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR MAIZE -
(1977 Constant Terms)
1977                       1978  and on
Reference Price ($/MT)                            120.0                      125.7
Reference Price (CFAF/MT) 2/                   29400                       30796
Freight                                         8800                        8800
Insurance                                       1600                        1680
CIF Lome                                       39800                       41276
Port Charges                                      950                        950
Transport Charges                               1050                        1050
Value Lome                                     41800                       43276
Transport from Upeountry                        3000                        3000
Buying and Handling                             2500                        2500
Economic Farmgate Value                        36300                       37776
1/  World Bank Commodity Projections, November 1976, in Constant 1977 dollars.  1978 and on reference
price based on average of 1978 to 1985 prices. See Table 3
Transport and Marketing co0ts based on mission estimates.                                             è t
2/  At exchange rate of CFAF 245:US$                                                                       Ï 



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO JE CT IN THE COTTON AREAS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR SORGHUM 1/
(1977 Constant Terms)
All
Years
Reference Price ($/MT)  _li
Reference Price (CFAF/MT)2/                            27195
Freight                                                 8800
Insurance                                               1480
CIF Lome                                               37475
Port Charges                                             950
Delivery to Warehouse                                   1050
Transport and Handling                                  9500
Delivered Upcountry                                    48975
Buying and Delivery                                     2500
Economic Farmgate Value                                46475
1/ Based on average of World Bank Commodity'Price Projections, November 1976,
in constant 1977 dollars (See Table 3).
Transport and Marketing costs based on mission estimates.
2/ At exchange rate of CFAF 245: US$
CDX



RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE COTTON AREAS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR GROUNDNUTS 1/
(1977 Constant Terme)
1977            1978               1979         1980             1981            1982            1983            1984             1985
Referenc2 Price ($/N,)                                              420.0            372.1             376.6        377.6            394.0           410.5           426.9            443.3           459.8
Reference Pricc (CFAr/NT) 2/                                     102900           91164              92267        92512            96530          100572          104590          108608           11265'
Preight                                                            8784            87S4               8704         8784             8784             3784           8784             8784            8784
Insurance                                                          5598            4959               5019         5033             5251            5471            5689            5908             6128
FOB Lome                                                          88518           77421              78464        78695            82495           86317           90117           93916            97739
Port Charges                                                        965             965                965          965              965             965             965              965             965
Transport and Storage                                              2108            2108               2108         2108             2108             2108           2108             2108            2108
Transportation fron Upcountry                                      6557            6557               6557         6557             6557            6557            6557            6557             6557
Buying and Handling                                                4847            4847               4847         4847             4847            4047            4847            4847             4847
Economic Farmgate Value                                           74041           62944              53987        64218            68018           71840           75640           79439            83262
Producer Price                                                    50000           50000              50000        50000            50000           50000           50000           50000            50000
Commission                                                         1200            1200               1200         1200             1200            1200            1200            1200             1200
Taxes                                                              8762            8762               8762         8762             8762            8762            8762             8762            8762
OPAT Surplus                                                      14079            2982               4025         4256             8056           11878           15678            19477           23300
1/    Uorld Bank Cowodity Price Projactions, November 1976, in constant 1977 dollars (See Table 3).
Transport and Marketing costO based on mission estimates.
2/    At eachange rate of CFAF 245:US$



ANNEX 12
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Rate of Return
1.        Base data for the economic rate of return calculation is shown in
Table 1 where benefits and costs are presented by year in 1977 constant terms.
Benefits have been calculated using the economic farmgate prices detailed in
Annex Il and the incremental production figures presented in Annex 4, Table
12. Economic prices have been calculated using reference prices estimated by
the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division. Cotton and groundnuts
are assumed exported, maize and sorghum as import substitutes. To allow for
marketing periods, the incremental benefit stream has been lagged by six
months in the rate of return calculations although this is not shown in
the table.
2.        Costs have been expressed including physical contingencies and
net of identifiable taxes and subsidies. Costs include buildings, furniture
and equipment, feeder roads, vehicles, agricultural and research equipment,
staff salaries, operating costs, fertilizer, pesticides, seed and an imputed
cost for incremental farm labor. Incremental farm labor requirements (all
family labor) has been calculated in terms of incremental adult labor days
from the farm budgets in Annex 4, Tables 3 to 6 and valued at CFAF 200/work
day (US$0.82) - the prevailing average daily rural wage. Given the general
on-farm underemployment, and limited off-farm employment opportunities in the
areas covered by the project, farm labor might have been over-valued. This
assumption is tested for sensitivity in the analysis.
3.        Rate of return results are presented in Table 2.  An exchange rate
of CFAF 245 = US$1.0 has been used throughout. Because the project consists
primarily of providing extension and other services to the farmers, with a
relatively small amount of infrastructure a ten year project period has been
assumed, yielding a rate of return of 32%; extending the period to 15 years
would yield a return of 35%. As is normally the case with such projects, the
rate of return is fairly sensitive to changes in costs or benefits. A fall in
benefits or a rise in costs of 20% reduce the rate of return to 14% and 17%,
respectively. If incremental family labor is costed at CFAF 100 (US$0.41)
per ALE 1/ day or is not costed, the rate of return rises to 41% and 52%,
respectively.
4.        An indication of the effect that an incomplete realization of
project output targets would have on the economic rate of return, is provided
in item 2 of Table 2. Such an influence is approximated by multiplying the
total benefit stream, the seasonal input (fertilizer, pesticide and seed)
cost stream and the farm labor cost stream by a given factor whilst leaving
project investment and operating costs at base levels. Thus, for a 70% real-
ization, these three streams are multiplied by 0.7 and the rate of return
becomes 20%.
l/   ALE = Adult labor Equivalent.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS
(CFAF Million, 1977 constant terms)
Project Year               PY I          PY 2        PY 3         PY  4          PYS5        PY 8'        PY 7          PY 8          PY 9         PY 10
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Cotton                                                  509.8        963.8        1540.8      2205.1        2909.8       3234.6       3407.8       3588.7         3625.0       3625.0
Maize                                                    (9.9)         47.1        145.2       181.5          225.2       318.8        413.7        442.7          473.3        5f2.3
Sorghum                                                  (7.0)         38.7         60.9        88.0         113.3        155.4        198.7        215.5          234.5        253.5
Groundnuts                                               (3.0)         (4.5)        54.8        76.5           99.3       126.4        151.3        182.7          196.5        198.0
Total Incremental Benefits   1/                         490         1045          1802        2551          3348         3835         4171         4430           4579         4579
INCREMENTAL COSTS
Investments                                             162.1        369.4         256.2       368.7         349.6         68.0         71.1          56.1          60.8         66.0
Operating Costs and Salaries                            253.6         193.3        302.2       283.9          301.7       237.0        237.0         237.0         237.0        237.0
Evaluation and Studies                                    5.3          41.0         41.0        10.2            8.6         8.0          9.4           8.0           8.0           8.0
Farm Inputs                                             328.6        469.3         613.2       762.3          952.3      1010.1       1048.9       1093.0         1090.9       1099.3
FeederiRoads                                            376.2         205.7        226.7       323.3           35.7        35.7         35.7          35.7          35.7         35.7
Farm Labor                                               96.0         232.0        376.0       528.0         685.0        751.0        810.0        839.0          857.0        875.0
Total Incremental Costs                                1222         1511          1815        2276          2333         2110         2212         2269           2289         2321
NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                                     (732)        (466)          (13)        275          1015        1725          2091         2161          2240          2258
1/    Benefit stream lagged by 6 months in economic rate of return calculation.



Annex 12
Table 2
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity 1/
Rate of Return %
1. Base Estimate                                                       =       32
Sensitivity:    Benefits       Costs
80%         100%                        =        14
90%         100%                        =        23
110%          100%                        =       40
120%          100%                                48
100%           80%                        =       52
100%           90%                       =        41
100%          110%                        =       24
100%          120%                        =       17
2. Realization of Project Expansion Targets at:
90% of Mission Estimate                                     =        28
80% of Mission Estimate                                     =        24
70% of Mission Estimate                                     =        20
3. Costing of Family Labor at:
Zero                                                        =        52
50% of average rural wage                                   =        41
4. Project Life of15 years                                                     35
1/   See text in Annex for explanation of analysis assumptions and interpretation
of results.



ANNEX 13
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Semi-Annual Schedule of Disbursements
(us$ '000)
Disbursements           Undisbursed
During                         At End Of
IDA FY         Semester        Semester       Cumulative       Semester
1978            Second          1,450            1,450          12,550
1979            First           1,700            3,150          10,850
Second          1,700           4,850            9,150
1980            First           1,700            6,550           7,450
Second          1,700           8,250            5,750
1981            First            1,700           9,950           4,050
Second          1,700           11,650           2,350
1982            First            1,700          13,350             650
Second            650           14,ooo



ANNEX 14
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Audit Terms of Reference
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Requirements
In any business or other enterprise the prompt and regular prepara-
tion of accurate accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enter-
prise is carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are
essential not only for the enterprise itself, but also for lenders, who need
reliable information about the financial condition of the organization they
are helping to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in appraising a project,
has to be satisfied that the financial data presented are accurate and com-
plete, and that, during the implementation of the project, the borrower will
have adequate financial controls and follow proper accounting principles.
These are the reasons why the services of auditors are required for Bank/IDA
projects.
Definition of Audit
An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and account-
ing system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to
report on the financial statements of the organization and to express an
opinion on their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted account-
ing principles.
The essential features of an audit are:
(a) to make a critical review of the system of bookkeeping,
accounting and internal control;
(b) to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors consider
necessary to form an opinion as to the reliability of the
records as a basis for the preparation of accounts;
(c) to compare the financial statements with the underlying
records in order to see whether they are in accordance
with them;
(d) to make a critical review of the financial statements
and to report whether, in the opinion of the auditors, the
accounts are presented and the items are described in such
a way that they show not only a true but also a fair view
and give in the prescribed manner the information required
by law.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Selection and Appointment of Auditors
The borrower is responsible for the selection and appointment of
auditors. The Bank Group requires, however, that the person or firm appointed
should have experience and qualifications acceptable both to the Bank Group
and to the borrower.
The criteria employed by the Bank Group in judging the acceptability
of auditors are that the auditors should be professionally qualified and, in
particular:
(a) be impartial and independent of the control of the entity
subject to audit and of the person appointing them; in
particular, the auditors should not, during the period
covered by the audit, be employed by, or serve as director
for, or have any financial or close business relationship
with the entity, except as independent professional
advisers;
(b) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and
methods in conformity with internationally recognized and
generally accepted auditing practice and employing adequate
staff with professional qualifications and suitable experience
by international standards; and
(c) have experience of auditing the accounts of entitites comparable
in nature, size and complexity to the entity whose audit they
are to undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Bank Group be furnished with sufficient information about the auditors
to enable it to satisfy itself on the above matters. This information would
normally include the name of the firm (or Government department or agency)
the names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate number of
professional staff employed and some of the main audits carried out.
Professional and Government Auditors
The choice between professional and Government auditors will normal-
ly depend on the nature of the project and who is executing it. A non-revenue
earning project being carried out by a Government department, following Govern-
ment accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be audited by the
Government auditor. On the other hand, a revenue earning project executed by
a company or corporation (whether wholly Government-owned or not), and using
commercial accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be audited by a
professional firm.  In some cases, the nature of the project calls for a joint
audit by the Government auditor in collaboration with a professional firm.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, the Bank,
wherever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, either alone
or in conjunction with the international firm.
Audit Procedures
The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed
to enable him to arrive at an opinion on the fairness of the financial state-
ments which are the subject of his report:
The extent of the auditor's tests of the accounting records is
dependent on the system of accounts and internal check and control maintained
by the company.
For this purpose, the auditor should examine:
(a) the organization and procedures for taking financial
decisions and authorizing expenditures;
(b)  the design, management and operation of the accounting
system;
(c) the efficiency of the system of internal control and of
the internal audit;
(d) the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(e) the effectiveness of related systems and procedures,
such as inventory control, or data processing.
In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
auditor should test the financial transactions of the organization, in con-
junction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as miay be necessary
to enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness of the
transactions, their complete and proper record in the books of account, and
their effect on the financial results. The evidence referred to above will
include: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
bank statements and confirmation by third parties of amounts payable or
receivable; and information obtained by the auditor from enquiry, observa-
tion and physical inspection.
By means of similar tests, the auditor should satisfy himself
as to the existence and basis of valuation of assets and liabilities, such
as:
(a) land, building, machinery and equipment, including the
provision for depreciation;
(b) inventories, including provision for obsolescence, spoilage
or losses;



ANNEX 14
Page 4
(c)  receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful
debts;
(d)  cash and bank balances;
(e)  amounts due to third parties (long and short-term loans
and suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occurring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value of commodity in-
ventories).
Audit Reports
The auditors should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the management.
The following is an example of short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of                   as of
. 19 _, and the profit and loss account and related
statements for the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities, and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanyîng financial statements and
appended notes present fairly the financial position
at             , 19  , and the results of its
operations for the year then ended, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles, applied on a basis consistent in
all material respects with that of the previous year."
When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph of a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification
or disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualifica-
tion and of the effect on the financial position and results of operations,
if reasonably determinable.
The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in
the organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for
improving accounting procedures.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and com-
ments) of items in the various audited financial 8tatements. The audited
financial statements would normally include:
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c)  profit and los1   (income and expenditure) statement for
each major unit contributing a material part, say more than
20% of revenue of incurring more than say, 20% of costs,
or such other criteria as the auditor shall determine;
(d) statement of sources and application of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would cover,
for example:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d)  financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and lon-form reports
to be transmitted to the Bank Group together with the audited accounts.



ANNEX 15
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Draft Terms of Reference for the
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The project would be monitored and evaluated by the Project Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) which has been established by the Ministry of
Rural Development and already has monitoring responsibilities for the IDA-
financed Maritime Region Rural Development Project. The unit is headed by a
senior officer of this Ministry.
2.        The PMEU would be reinforced under this proposed project by a
Project Officer (PO) who would have preferably a B.Sc. or M.Sc. degree in
agricultural economics or equivalent. Preference would be given to candidates
having experience with work with smallholder farmers in Africa.  The candidate
should be imaginative, have good organizing abilities and a sound knowledge of
statistical evaluating methods. The appointment would be subject to the
approval of IDA.
3.        The PO would report directly to the head of PMEU in Lome.  He would
be preferably stationed at SOTOCO's headquarters in Atakpame. He would work
in close cooperation with SOTOCO's Technical Manager and would selectively
use SOTOCO and SORAD's extension services for monitoring activities. In
justified cases, he would arrange for the hiring and training of independent
enumerators and would organize the lpgistics and supervision of their field
activities. Use would be made of the University of Lome and agricultural
college in Palime students, who during vacations would be given a chance to do
monitoring work and thus get acquainted with the project and its objectives.
4.        To ensure uniformity and comparability of work within the PMEU
the PO would work along similar lines as outlined in the Maritime Region
Rural Development Project. Monitoring would be basically carried out at two
levels -- the farm and the project level. At the farm level data would be
collected on a selective basis on population, patterns of land use, data on
farmer inputs and equipment, use of credit and marketing arrangements. An
important part would be establishing farmers' response to project participation
and the feedback of farmers' views to project management. At project level
the PMEU would »mnitor mainly the physical progress of project activities,
i.e. adoption rates of farmers, areas planted to project crops, yields,
production, input supply and consumption, efficiency of training and extension
services, progress with feeder roads and wells construction, marketing and
ginning activities, procurement procedures and disbursement. Timeliness in
detecting problems in project implementation and giving advance warning to
project management and IDA would be an important feature of PO's activities.
The PO would cooperate with project management on quarterly and annual reports
(Annex 16).
5.        An agreement has been reached with IITA Ibadan that researchers of
the Institute's Farming Systems Program would provide consultancy services to
PMEU on organization, establishment of objectives, field work and design and
data processing. IITA personnel would visit this project twice a year; finance
for these visits has been included in project costs.



ANNEX 16
Page 1
TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Reporting Requirements
1.        SOTOCO would keep annual records of performance and measure accom-
plishments against appraisal estimates. These data would serve both as an
essential management tool during the project life and as a major input for
the eventual preparation of any follow-up project.
2.        These records would be presented to IDA at the end of each cropping
year and would be arranged in a set of standard tables used for project
progress reporting in the West Africa region. The tables would inform on
numbers of project farmers; improved crop areas; yields; production; produc-
tion of improved seeds; use of fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides and
sprayers; progress of ox-training and ox-drawn cultivation; farmgate prices,
import and export substitution prices; cost to growers of fertilizers, pest-
icides; seeds, other inputs and subsidies; inflation rates; costs of labor and
official minimum wages; average labor requirements for project crops in ALE
days; average cost-benefit ratios; simplified farm budgets for average project
farms in the four project regions; total returns to economy from main project
crops; project staff; credit to farmers; feeder roads and rural wells develop-
ment. Verbal comments would be made on climate, marketing and ginneries,
progress of research work, training and cooperation with other institutions.
The agricultural research unit would produce a separate report that would
become part of SOTOCO's annual report.
3.        The reporting forms would include appraisal estimates, actual data
in absolute terms and in relation to appraisal estimats. An example of the
form of reporting is given in Table 1.
4.        In addition to this yearly report project management would submit
quarterly reports on expenditures, disbursement and physical progress in
the main project components. All reports would be worked out in cooperation
with the Projects Evaluation Unit (PEU).
5.        Details of reporting requirements would be discussed with project
management and PEU during the first supervision mission.



TOGO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Annual Progress Report - Farm and Crop Development
PYl                PY 2                PY 3                PY 4                PY 5
Item                     A     A             A     AE      %     A     AE     %      A     AE     %     A      AE
Project farmers (No.)
Region:      PL              11,4oo              14,300              17,100              21,400              25,700
CE               5,000               6,700               8,300              10,800              13,300
KA               2,700               3,700               4,700               6,ooo               7,300
SA               4,000               4,800               5,600               6.200               7,000
Total           23,100              29,500              35,700              44,4OO              53,300
Improved crop areas
Cotton:      PL               7,980              10,010              11,970              14,980              17,990
CE               3,000               4,020               4,980               6,480               7,980
KA                 810               1,110               1,410               1,800               2,190
SA               2,000               2 1400              2 800               3,100               3,500
Total           13,790                                  21,160              26,360              31,660
Maize:       PL                 -                 3,500               7,980              10,010              12,040
CE              _                      780               1,020               1,320               1,740
Total             -                  4>280               9,000              11,330              13,780
Sorghum:     CE                                   1,800               2,040               2,700               3,300
KA                _                    500                 800               1,100               1,400
SA                  _                1,500               2 000               2 400               2,800
Total                                3,800               4;                  6,                  7,500
Groundnuts:  KA                -                                        100                 200                 3000æ
SA              _                                        1.500               2.000               2,400       Cr\
Total                                                    1,6oo               2,200               2,700
A = Actual achievement   AE - Appraisal estimate   % = A  x 100
AB






IBRD 12608
*< _, ~U P P E R   V  O L T A     
r11°        /  '   ' ''          X         'VOLT           MAUR ITA                       N Le
/  ,  ?  X  /   -                   {        <     g A ;{ ~~~~~~~~NIGERA
T-r
\  S A V A                                          -A
0  osnsonne  <ipyedreetttcPtc     h
.-~~~~~~~so
eSplonao     ~      ond 0.hoihkidttflte
-l               ---  '`
I            /§    Bassari          \ ~~~~~Bafilo° 
j    o       ~         c_ _ 
*i   __-~~~g\              //Tc homnba\
V           ,/z/                   \  °~~~~~~Sokodé          /9
SAVAN    C                          ,vT~E  N  T \cR  
Sotouboua  fi       ~       > 
cci5                                                      i                                  i o
g-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
rf _                                                        -  
-8°            ~~TOGOj                                                            /      ,8°
RURAL DEVELOPM\ENT PROJECT                                      \    
IN COTTON AREAS                      I0 t 
ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS                                              , 
WITH POPULATION DENSITY               J                     
I -2 30tspr  r Amlomeo ÀAopme ;
'  31 - 60                                                               / t        j
,lllllli61 - 120i   /                              "U      
_    Greater rF- 120                       *S^/4z-                             (
/23  Na r loo I Capl raI        ,gBasso1
0                                                                                           7--~~' ---
D,st,ict Boundaries               i22 X" u    
| O    4p    ~                                   EO            N R10A 
KlLOMETERS rS r c,
l                       | .ô                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1977






IBRD 12609
U P P E R     VOV    L T A                                        Y I  . -`
N           ~~~MALI       NIGER
lh~-, 
-11°,g      I                Koi,ndkâre (      SENEGSAN.  K  A                   N
N ia                          tiPPEP N    2d
(  BoumbouL  h \         e                  zztTi IOAST(-/ <afilX
<. ~     ~~~~~~~~~~                    E     N                 L AjA ZzC a, - 4i 
9.                                                         Sk.dt.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot 
v  nonne         vk "payndlnon  *O itmouby h
y~~~MongodfG   osi.i        d      :kad t ffl:
IN~      ~ COTTON AREAS
-10°  1ts  !    X ,   ;*   O                               100
j'.1er                       \                      LSAVNNA           i
Nat ... 1 Capital                                                                 CoriOaOodifda~'
S  I. ,-t-  H.a                                         Baf..,tt 
7j   7assoriSw    X --
90                                          N           J//"              / ,,6 ?                             90
O'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Lama Karo /J                                 1977
*\    Fo      zoo            j&        t 
.   Soîoubouar                   ---
TOGO                           Y                                           i  9
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   ,)                               Biltta    i (                          Wi
IN COTTON AREAS                       5           Poal                             I
SOTOCO INSTITUTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE, \                  _ _ _          ~        Kes  
-      PRIMARY ROAD NETWORK                            Tchîarooboo                                        B
Proiect AreqoPLo                                           <      E r  
Main Roods                                                  )         
6i     Nat onol Capital                                    h        I             [ 
13 Sotoco Heodanorters fF1  
@)    Soroco Regicool Headquartero            Badoa              m rç Af;ar  t
*     Sotoco Doctoral rleadauorrers     C      plEn                   1                 /
Q~    Giorreries                                                   i~t1 /maN       > 
:Q    Seed Maltililcatior Cocters            j                    I            
District Bounnorles fJ \ " ,
R- egioral Bourdarîes                         _                                  k
*  nternotiono. Bouirdortes             I                                              h7
I   t«/M\A   1t  1 /T) I 1i EX,>P                NARY 197






IBRD 12610
U P P E R  v O L T A                                `7. 
MAU~~fTAN MAL 1
11                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~  MAtI ~~~~~~~~j\jYNîGERI
f
lI.   J~~~~~~~~~~
'">N
8- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
TOGO                                    -
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN COTTON AREAS                                                      Co,
MAIN SOIL GROUPS         (~opm
_____ ve,t,sols  -rd S-l,'Ir S.àI
-o        Bo~r Ttop1c
13rrgnou T ropic ol S ous
FH,olorntpic Soils
Hyd..onrphic Sous
90    2     O9   60    8      100
KILOM ET E RS
0'                               1'O'
JANUARY 1977






IBRD 12611
-.,.JU P P E R   V O L TA A                 MAitANIA        M           NIÇ
_il°                   iS                                          EN-   J   E - - :    M    - ?f1E
,:  'S NÇ    NIGEKiA
FOOD CROPS                           NA                _________
Sorghum, Millet >         \ns anned
Cowpeam, Millet              `0                       INDUSTRIAL CROPS
Rice                                 -          -
<~~~~~~~
I0,        Groundnuts                                                      Groundnuis
-Rice I  \ -Cotton
AND  CLIMATIC ZONES  KK   A    RI PAtapm
Nlonmtougou,/~ L o\
Sorghum, Millet                       \          / Pagouda.
Bombara Nut   C
Dlstr BoJies .  Pali m e \ Bafilo 0,
Rice                               O
pr                han~~~~b~~   Cotton
\ Sokode.
E E   N    T R                              LU
Maize                         Sotouboua j
CowpeaO
Bambara Nutj
Yom                                         -
1000A SEt Rice                                                             o O
Cassa\                                      Coco
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
N COTTON AREAS                 ~~P  L  A \T            A- L          Coffee
MAIN  CROPS                                                 O.l Palm
AND  CLIMATIC ZONES197
Amiamea 0        Aapm
Shoc R,csSeoo~c  Maize                           I
L-g R-iy Seosn-                                                 c
B sodo R 05Seooo Cassova                    '---*~'I
----"--   R,cecc        ~~Yomn
-7       N.t,.oo1 CoP,o.                                                                            -
---- Drst,iCf B-jd-rie           Rice     SOa              L        Nse
-- Regonl Boonoores   t.M                   R   1
W    nirnrlooIBonooks                                                                         m
N        ize                TsevCeconut
o  20  40     60      80O   100
KILOMETE RS
JANUARY 1977



