CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 741 TO
Project Agreement
(Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
Dated October 5, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 741 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON (hereinafter called SOTOCO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Togo (hereinafter sometimes
called the Borrower or Togo) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SOTOCO agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS SOTOCO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEP*EFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SOTOCO shall carry out Parts A, B, C, E and F
of the Project despribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement (including, without limitation, the management of the
Special Account and the Centres Polyvalents) with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural and rural deve,opment practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and for the purchase of all fertilizers and insecti-
cides required for the Project, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SOTOCO undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SOTOCO to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SOTOCO
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SOTOCO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) SOTOCO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Parts A, B, C, E and
F of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provi-
sions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) SOTOCO shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SOTOCO and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. (a) SOTOCO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SOTOCO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the performance by SOTOCO of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Before carrying out the annual work programs
pertaining to Parts B and F of the Project, the Borrower shall
submit such programs to the Association for review, comments and
approval.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOTOCO
Section 3.01. (a) SOTOCO shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and rgricultural and rural
development practices, under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by qualified and experienced staff
in adequate numbers and in accordance with the 1974 Decree.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing 50TOCO shall at all times employ, for all key positions
of SOTOCO, persons whose qualifications, and terms and conditions
of employment, are satisfactory to the Association. Such persons
shall include inter alia a civil engineer, a chief for the feeder
road unit, a chief mechanic, a senior training officer and a
deputy training officer and SOTOCO shall hire said persons on
or before December 31, 1977 (or such other date as the Association
may agree).


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. SOTOCO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. SOTOCO shall cause all facilities included in
Part A of the Project and the Centres Polyvalents to be adequately
maintained, cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made and
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required therefor.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SOTOCO shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing SOTOCO shall maintain separate accounts to record
separately: (i) SOTOCO's marketing operations; (ii) SOTOCO's
ginning operations at the Lama-Kara gin; (iii) the Borrower's
account in SOTOCO's books with respect to the Borrower's payments
made to SOTOCO pursuant to Sections 3.01 (c) and 3.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement; and (iv) the operations of the
Special Account.
Section 4.02. SOTOCO shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of SOTOCO
and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SOTOCO thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified- in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SOTOCO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any uptice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly g.ven
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SOTOCO:
SOTOCO
Atakpame
Togo
Cable address:
SOTOCO
Atakpame
Togo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SOTOCO may be taken or executed by
its Directeur Gfnfral or such other person or persons as SOTOCO
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SOTOCO shall furnish to the Association suf-
ficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SOTOCO,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by SOTOCO pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
By Is/ Messanvi Kokou Kekeh
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods included in the Project shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidd-
ing, as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the construction of buildings estimated to cost
the equivalent of $3,100,000 (including taxes), or less, in the
aggregate and contracts for goods whose individual cost is less
than $50,000 equivalent (including taxes) and estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000, or less, in the aggregate    will be
awarded on the basis of local procurement procedures acceptable to
the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods (except those to be procured in accordance with local
procedures) manufactured in Togo may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
will clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the


﻿-9-
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Togo
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Togo equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Togo.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods- to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement without contracting
Civil works for Part E of the Project may be carried out by
force account by SOTOCO.


﻿- 10 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of prop-sed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of the fer-
tilizers and insecticides required for the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association


﻿- 11 -
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


