                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2608



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-40330 IDA-H1450)



                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION
                          (US$19.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.0 MILLION
                           (US$35.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                              TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                           FOR A

                              GROWTH SUPPORT PROJECT

                                        April 30, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Department
Western and Central Africa
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 2013)

                        Currency Unit = CFA franc
                         CFAF 1.00 = US$0.0020
                         US$1.00 = CFAF 501.46

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM       Aéroports du Mali (Airports of Mali)
AFEMINE   Association des Femmes Minières du Mali (Association of Women
          Miners)
API       Agence de Promotion des Investissements (Investment Promotion
          Agency)
APPI      Aéroports de Paris Ingénierie (Paris Airports Engineering)
AZI-SA    Agency for the Establishment and Management of Industrial Zones
BCEAO     Banque Central des Etats d’Afrique de l’Ouest (West Africa Central
          Bank)
BDS       Business Development Service
BHM       Bank for Housing of Mali
BIM       Banque internationale pour le Mali (Mali International Bank)
BOA       Bank of Africa
CFAF      CFA Franc
CMU       Country Management Unit
CNPI      Centre Nationale de Promotion des Investissements (National Center for
          Investment Promotion)
CPI       Conseil Présidentiel pour l’Investissement (Presidential Investor
          Council)
CRT       Commission de Regulation des Télécommunications
          (Telecommunication Regulatory Authority)
CTRCA     Cellule Technique du Cadre des Affaires (Investment Climate Reform
          Unit)
CCS/SFD   Cellule de Contrôle et de Surveillance des Systèmes Financiers
          Décentralisés.
DFA       Development Financing Agreement
DNGM      Département Nationale de Géologie et des Mines (Geology and Mining
          National Department)
EITI      Extracting Industries Transparency Initiative
ESSF      Enterprise Support Services Fund
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FPD       Financial and Private Sector Development
FSDP      Financial Sector Development Project
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GICT      Global Information and Communication Technologies Department
GIE       Groupe d'Intérêt Economique (Economic Interest Group)
GOM       Government of Mali
GPRSF     Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework
HIPC      Heavily-Indebted Poor Country
ICA       Investment Climate Assessment
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT       Information and Communications Technology
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ISR       Implementation Status Report
JPA       Junior Professional Associate
MCC       Millennium Challenge Corporation
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIP       Ministère de la Promotion des Investissements et des PME (Investment
          and SME Promotion Ministry)
MLAFU     Ministry of Housing, Land and Urban Matters
MSME      Micro, Small and Medium Size Enterprise
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NINA      Numéro d’Identification National (Unique National Identification
          Number)
OMATHO    Office Malien de Tourism et de l’Hôtelerie (Mali Tourism and
          Hospitality Organization)
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Implementation Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PPP       Public-Private Partnership
PREM      Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RCCM      Registre du Commerce et du Crédit Mobilier (Trade and Personal
          Consumer Credit Registry)
SESA      Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
SME       Small and Medium Size Enterprise
SOTELMA   Société des Télécommunications du Mali (Mali Telecommunications
          Company)
STEP      Stratégies et Techniques d’Envol des Entreprises (Enterprise Take-off
          Strategies and Techniques)
TOR       Terms of Reference
TTL       Task Team Leader
UNWTO     World Tourism Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
       Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
    Country Director:    Ousmane Diagana
      Sector Manager:    Paul Noumba Um
 Project Team Leader:    Lorenzo Bertolini
ICR Principal Author:    Michaela J. Weber
                                                   REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                      MALI GROWTH SUPPORT PROJECT


                                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 9
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 18
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 29
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 30
6.  Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 36
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 38
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 39
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 50
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 50
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 53
Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 58
Map ................................................................................................................................... 60
List of figures
Figure 1: Investment in telecom ....................................................................................... 21 
Figure 2: Teledensity for cell phones increased manyfold ............................................... 21 
Figure 3: Investment in tourism ........................................................................................ 21 
Figure 4: Air arrivals, tourists and hotel rooms ................................................................ 21 
Figure 5: Investments in mining and exports .................................................................... 22 
Figure 6: Mali has made improvements in the areas measured by Doing Business ......... 23 
Figure 7: Positive development of intermediary indicators .............................................. 26 

List of tables
Table 1: Project Ratings .................................................................................................... 28 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           MALI- GROWTH
Country:                Mali                        Project Name:
                                                                           SUPPORT PROJECT
Project ID:             P080935                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-40330,IDA-H1450
ICR Date:               04/29/2013                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                         Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF MALI
Original Total
                        XDR 35.60M                  Disbursed Amount:      XDR 16.27M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 16.27M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy, Industry and Commerce
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/26/2003         Effectiveness:          09/30/2005       09/30/2005
Appraisal:            01/06/2005         Restructuring(s):                        07/20/2009
Approval:             02/15/2005         Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                09/30/2011       09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        High
Bank Performance:                                   Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                   Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory              Government:           Unsatisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
                                 Indicators                                        Rating
     Performance                                      (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                             13                     0
Central government administration                                    33                   65
General industry and trade sector                                    40                     8
Other Mining and Extractive Industries                                7                     7
SME Finance                                                           7                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               17                    0
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                           17                   27
Other Private Sector Development                                     16                   28
Regulation and competition policy                                    33                   40
Trade facilitation and market access                                 17                    5

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                        Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Ousmane Diagana                     A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Paul Noumba Um                      Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:       Lorenzo Bertolini                   Francois Nankobogo
ICR Team Leader:           Lorenzo Bertolini
ICR Primary Author:        Michaela J. Weber
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Stimulate private sector investment and performance stemming from increased total
factor productivity and from targeted sectoral sources of growth.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Create the conditions for increased private investment through investment climate
reforms, improved financial services and the provision of non-financial services to
private enterprises.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target       Completion or
                                            documents)          Values        Target Years
                Time taken to approve a new investment is reduced from 45 to 15 days by project
Indicator 1 :
                end.
Value
quantitative or 45 days                                       15 days         26 days
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/23/2009                                       06/23/2009     09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Through restructuring this indicator replaced previous indicator.
achievement)
                Bank credit to SMEs increased to 30% of total loans and advances by project
Indicator 2 :
                end.
Value
quantitative or 24.6%                                         30%             N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2006                                       06/23/2009     09/30/2012
                In Restructuring paper it iss economy-wide indicator; earlier documents relate it
Comments
                to each participating bank; cannot be measured as BCAO changed calculation
(incl. %
                method; not measured by WB. Loans leveraged for US$12 m to 306 SMEs, 10
achievement)
                loans for total US$2 m.
                500 long term jobs created through firms supported by ESSF business
Indicator 3 :
                development services by project end.
Value
quantitative or 0 jobs                                        500 jobs        0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                       06/23/2009     09/30/2012
Comments
                Through restructuring this indicator replaced previous indicator. Program was
(incl. %
                not implemented.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                  Number of businesses registered annually at the one stop shop (Guichet Unique)
Indicator 1 :
                  increases by 50% by project end (number of companies)
Value
(quantitative     2000                                           3000            5300
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                                     06/30/2009      12/15/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Baseline and target were established at restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Zone's regulatory framework promulgated and implemented by project end.
Value
(quantitative     N/A                                            Yes             No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                                     06/23/2009      09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved. A management plan for a 240 ha industrial zone exists.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Site and services provided for 5 ha by project end
Value                                                            5 ha site and
                                                                                 No infrastructure
(quantitative     Site identification                            services
                                                                                 was built.
or Qualitative)                                                  provided
Date achieved     06/30/2005                                     06/23/2009      09/30/2012
Comments
                  IFC insisted on the approval of industrial zone regulation with the possibility of a
(incl. %
                  PPP management.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Teledensity (lines and cellular) increased from 2.5% to 30% by project end
Value
(quantitative     2.5%                       7%                  30%             1,081%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 06/30/2005          06/23/2009      09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Over achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of tourists increased by 50% from 100,000 to 150,000 by project end
Value
(quantitative     100,000                                        150,000         130,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                                     05/31/2011      09/30/2011
Comments          OMATHO yearly statistics. In 2008, number of tourists were 135,000, yet
(incl. %          decreased with the deteriorating security situation in Northern Mali in 2011 and
achievement)      2012.
Indicator 6 :     Eliminate export taxes on artisanal products in 2010 from 10% to 0%
                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Value
(quantitative   10%                         0                                   0%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2005                          09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                The cost of import-export licenses for artisanal products is reduced from CFAF
Indicator 7 :
                565,000 to CFAF 10,000 by project end
Value
(quantitative   CFAF 565,000                CFAF 10,000                         CFAF 10,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2005                          09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                BHM (the Habitat Bank of Mali) has adopted and implemented a restructuring
Indicator 8 :
                strategy by project end
Value                                                                           Restructuring
                BHM stopped mortgage                             Bank
(quantitative                                                                   strategy has not
                lending activities                               restructured
or Qualitative)                                                                 been achieved.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                         06/23/2009     09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        BHM has been fully recapitalized.
achievement)
                Number of firms receiving technical assistance from the Enterprise Support
Indicator 9 :
                Services Fund (ESSF) reaches 200 by project end
Value
(quantitative   0                                                200            0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                         06/23/2009     09/30/2012
Comments
                The component was not implemented. The STEP program was delivered to at
(incl. %
                least 1,284 firms (all these firms stayed in the program for at least three months).
achievement)
                Investment in the mining sector increased by 10% from US$155,000,000 to
Indicator 10 :
                US$170,000,000 (approximately 5 new permits a year) by project end
Value
                                                                 US$170
(quantitative   US$155 million                                                  US$122 million
                                                                 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                                         06/23/2009     12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved by end 2011 with US$349 million but values decreased by project end.
(incl. %        Due to the deteriorating export situation and due to dangerous security situation
achievement) mining companies do not currently invest.
Indicator 11 : Production from small and artisanal mines increased by 10% by project end
                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                (tones)
Value
(quantitative   5 tones                 6.5 tones            5.5 tones       Data not available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005          06/23/2009      09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Department of Mines has not yet released the study on artisanal mining.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/28/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     3.88
  3     06/22/2006        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              4.40
  4     12/29/2006        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              4.66
  5     06/27/2007        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              5.35
  6     12/20/2007        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              6.56
                               Moderately                Moderately
  7     04/28/2008                                                                        7.77
                             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                Moderately
  8     12/10/2008                                                                      12.45
                             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  9     06/30/2009        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             15.10
 10     12/28/2009        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             18.24
 11     06/29/2010        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             19.49
 12     11/13/2010        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             20.48
                               Moderately                Moderately
 13     07/11/2011                                                                      23.09
                             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                Moderately
 14     12/28/2011                                                                      24.52
                             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                Moderately
 15     07/10/2012                                                                      25.60
                             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The rationale for the
                                                     restructuring was that project
                                                     implementation had lagged due
                                                     to a combination of factors,
                                                     including weaknesses in project
                                                     management, uncertainty
                                                     around what airport
                                                     infrastructure was to be
                                                     rehabilitated or newly built,
                                                     delays in developing the legal
                                                     and regulatory framework for
 07/20/2009       Y       MS     MS          15.10
                                                     the industrial zones, and
                                                     consequently building the
                                                     infrastructure changed
                                                     circumstances on the ground.
                                                     The key changes were
                                                     modifications in: (i) project
                                                     development objective (PDO);
                                                     (ii) performance indicators; (iii)
                                                     project management structure;
                                                     and (iv) funding allocation
                                                     among components.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                          Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                     Unsatisfactory
I. Disbursement Profile
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

Country Context

1.     Mali had made significant economic and political progress in the decade leading to the
preparation of the Growth Support Project (approved in February 2005). Real gross Domestic
product (GDP) growth averaged 5.6 percent per year from 1994 to 2003, higher than the average
GDP growth rate of 3.2 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa countries over the same period. This
growth enabled real per capita GDP in Mali to rise by 3.1 percent per year. These advances were
made despite considerable obstacles and adverse shocks that the country faced.

2.      Notwithstanding these gains, Mali’s economic growth potential had remained largely
untapped due to insufficient microeconomic and institutional reforms, poor infrastructure, low
levels of human development, and weak institutional capacity-- all of which contributed to the
difficult social and economic conditions. In the late 1990s, almost 64 percent of Mali’s
population lived below the poverty line. Furthermore, Mali’s economy remained highly
vulnerable to external shocks, such as adverse climatic conditions and to price and nominal
exchange rate fluctuations due to dependence on a narrow range of commodity exports.

Sector Background

3.      The Government of Mali was committed to achieving sustained and equitable economic
growth through continued macroeconomic reforms aimed at broadening the economic base and
by developing and diversifying sources of growth while strengthening the enabling environment
for the private sector to become the engine of growth. The Government had taken several steps
to liberalize certain sectors and was then seeking to enhance the effectiveness of investment
promotion efforts. Reforms in various infrastructure sectors, including power, telecom and
railways were either completed or were under way.

4.     The 2004 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) for Mali indicated several areas of
constraints faced by firms in their operations:

      Cost of finance and access to finance ranked as a severe constraint for 50 percent of
       firms;
      Access to industrial land was a major constraint for more than one third of the firms;
      Infrastructure constraints, such as the poor quality and reliability of electricity supply,
       quality of road/rail transport facilities and freight services at the airport;
      Corruption was an important constraint to companies’ operations costing 3.3 percent of
       sales;
      Low levels of education and training and productivity of the workforce weighed on firms’
       competitiveness and innovation capabilities;
      Capacity and capability of institutions responsible for investment promotion and
       facilitation was low; and
      The lack of an effective public-private dialogue was evident.


                                               1
5.      The Doing Business indicators pointed to long and costly administrative procedures, such
as registering properties, and to inefficiencies in the judicial system, contract enforcement and
recovering debt.

6.      Mali faced multiple constraints to the development of sectoral sources of growth
notwithstanding the government’s efforts to liberalize and reform markets, the performance of
the Malian private sector has been less than impressive. Among the factors that contributed to the
dismal performance are limited local markets, low purchasing power, low productivity,
infrastructure constraints, high costs of factor inputs, lack of skills and human capital, and
overall weaknesses in the business, regulatory, and institutional environment. Other additional
factors included limited access to industrial land; poor conditions at Bamako airport; risk of
decline in mining production; untapped potential in tourism and crafts; limited access to
telecommunications services; and limited access to financial and nonfinancial services by SMEs.

Rationale for Bank’s Assistance

7.       The Government of Mali partnered with the Bank Group in strengthening its
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy outlined in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP), which among other goals called for accelerated and equitable growth through
private sector investment. The project was in line with the government’s Policy Statement on
Private Sector Development,1 which set out the growth agenda. In light of Mali’s private sector
structure, the focus on the development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) was
critical. The project’s strategy focused on:

         Developing and diversifying the sources of growth through improvements in the
          investment climate to catalyze the private sector, including MSMEs;
         Supporting sectors with high growth potential;
         Setting up and maintaining required infrastructure to attract firms and improve the
          logistical chain; and
         Enhancing skills for diffusing innovation and technology, including in rural areas where
          local development was critical.

8.      The proposed project also drew on the design modules of the joint International
Development Association (IDA)-International Finance Corporation (IFC) MSME Program for
Africa, which was intended to achieve greater impact for the client by leveraging the
comparative advantages of the different World Bank Group institutions. Furthermore, the Bank
intended to partner with bilateral donors which were engaged in the sector.2 The Bank itself built
on its long track record of supporting reforms in business environment, infrastructure
development and sector-specific support (such as mining, tourism, and telecommunications) in
both Mali and other African and other emerging countries. Government officials, the private
sector, and the donor community saw the Bank as having the knowledge and resources required
to provide timely advice and technical assistance to manage the complexities of the private sector
development program as stated in the policy letter.


1
 See World Bank (2005a), PAD, Annex 15.
2
 The Bank was to coordinate its activities closely with those of other donors active in private sector development, including
France, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and Switzerland.


                                                                2
1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The overall project development objective (PDO), according to the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) was “to stimulate private sector investment and performance by increasing
total factor productivity and targeting sectoral sources of growth.? The project was “designed to
improve the investment climate, with a focus on reducing the cost of doing business and
fostering growth in sectors including mining, tourism and crafts, and telecommunications.?3

10.    The original project development objective according to the Development Financing
Agreement (DFA) was “to improve the investment climate, with a focus on reducing the cost of
doing business and on fostering growth contribution from high potential sectors, including
mining, tourism and crafts, and telecommunications?4.

11.     Key performance indicators included in the PAD were related to: (i) investment climate
particularly those indicated in the 2005 Doing Business report; (ii) availability of and access to
basic infrastructure; and (iii) support for MSME development. In addition, the PAD stated that
the improvement of the investment climate, particularly the Doing Business indicators were
expected to translate in a reduction of the cost of doing business. Moreover, successful project
implementation was expected to result in increased private investment levels, a significant
number of new permanent jobs created, an expanded access to infrastructure services, and
increased productivity in the private sector.

12.       The key PDOs were:

         The number of formal enterprises increased by 10 percent; and
         At least 4,300 new jobs created in all sectors covered by the project.

13.     The PAD identified additional 17 results indicators (intermediate indicators). Twelve of
these indicators were reflected in the DFA. 5 Two of the intermediary indicators in the DFA had
different targets compared to the targets in the results framework in the PAD.




3
  See World Bank (2005a), PAD, page 6.
4
  See Development Financing Agreement (DFA), Schedule 2, p. 19, dated April 18, 2005.
5
  (1) Number of formal enterprises increased by 10 percent by project end; (2) At least 4,300 jobs created by the completion of
the Project, in the formal private sector, including created in the sectors of new technologies, small mining, industrial zones,
telecommunications, and tourism and crafts; (3) Number of procedures required to register a business reduced from 13 to 6 and
number of days reduced from 42 to 8 by the Mid-Term Review; (4) Cost of setting up a business reduced US$557 to US$100 by
the Mid-Term Review; (5) Tele-density (fixed and mobile) increased by 7 percent by the completion of the Project; (6) Export
taxes on artisanal products eliminated by 2007 and volume of artisanal exports increased by 15 percent by the completion of the
Project; (7) Number of tourists increased by 50 percent by the completion of the Project; (8) Investment levels in the mining
sector increased by 10 percent and small mining production increased from 5 tons to 6 tons by the completion of the Project; (9)
At least 20 investors settled in the industrial zone by the completion of the Project; (10) Average time to clear arriving passengers
reduced from 70 minutes to 30 minutes by the completion of the Project; (11) Volume of term credit to small and medium
enterprises has increased by 20 percent by the completion of the Project; (12) At least 5 percent average turnover increase in
number of small and medium enterprises using business development services.




                                                                 3
1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
         and Reasons/Justification

14.    The PDO was revised as part of a Board approved level one restructuring on June 23,
2009 and was changed to “create the conditions for increased private investment through
investment climate reforms, improved financial services and the provision of non-financial
services to private enterprises?. The three original components (see 3.5) were divided up into 9
components (see 3.6).

15.      The Project Development/Outcome indicators supporting the PDO were:

        Days taken to approve a new investment are reduced from 45 to 15 days;
        Bank credit to SMEs increases to 30 percent of total loans and advances; and
        500 jobs are created through firms supported by the Enterprise Support Services Fund
         (ESSF).

16.     For each of the nine components intermediate indicators were introduced, some of which
stayed the same, many were changed.

17.    The revised PDO, it was argued, was formulated with the objective to link the
development outcome of the Project to its contribution to the Mali GPRSF.

18.     The rationale for the proposed restructuring was that project implementation had lagged
due to a combination of factors, including weaknesses in project management, uncertainty
around what airport infrastructure was to be rehabilitated or newly built, delays in developing the
legal and regulatory framework for the industrial zones, and “changed circumstances on the
ground?. 6 The proposed restructuring aimed to address these weaknesses and to recalibrate
several project components.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

19.     The main project beneficiaries were ministries, public agencies as well as the state-owned
telecom company, selected state-owned and private banks and MSMEs. Eight ministries were to
benefit from the project.7 In addition, public or publicly funded agencies benefiting from the
project were the Agency for Investment Promotion (API Mali), the Airports of Mali (ADM), the
umbrella organization for micro-enterprises (CCS/SFD), the National Artisan Center (CNPA),8
the Secretariat of the Presidential Investor Council (CPI), the Telecom Regulatory Agency
(CRT), the Investment Climate Reform Unit (CTRCA), 9 the Tourism and Hotel Agency
(OMATHO), 10 the Registry for Companies and Secured Transactions (RCCM), the public




6
  World Bank, Project Restructuring Paper (2009).
7
  Ministry of Finance, Commerce, Mining, Justice, Tourism, Transport and Equipment, Telecommunication, and Housing, Land
and Urban Matters.
8
  Centre National de Promotion de l’Artisanat.
9
  Cellule Technique de Réforme du Climat des Affaires.
10
   OMATHO was created by law in 1995 and promotes tourism, trains tour operators, issues licenses and classifies hotels.


                                                           4
telecom company, SOTELMA, and the Ministry of Mines (DNGM11). Beneficiaries of the Risk
Sharing Facility (RSF) and the STEP12 program were MSMEs.

20.     Through a revision in the DFA in 2008, Ecobank and the Bank of Africa (BOA) were
included as beneficiaries. MSMEs were to benefit from the project’s financial and non-financial
service, i.e. the partial risk guarantee and the business development services (BDS). The PAD’s
cost-benefit analysis assumed that 1,000 enterprises would benefit from the BDS component.
The PAD also stated that women and youth active in artisan and tourism businesses would be
benefitting from the project. Those value chains were also to create jobs for the poor, for
example in the artisan, textile and leather industries.

21.     The downstream beneficiaries of the planned infrastructure were the importers, exporters,
flight passengers and investors using airport logistics. Foreign investors were supposed to benefit
from the industrial zone. The communities, entrepreneurs and tour operators of Mopti, Timbuktu
and Djenne were to benefit from the tourist sites’ rehabilitation and the camp sites constructions.
For the ICT infrastructure the targeted beneficiaries were selected rural communities. Textile and
pottery artisans were targeted as beneficiaries of the artisan infrastructure supported by the
project.

22.    At project restructuring, the umbrella organization for micro-finance institutions
(CCS/SFD) and users of a mobile banking pilot were added as beneficiaries. In 2008, the
publicly-owned banks, BHM (Bank for Housing of Mali) and Mali International Bank (BIM)
were introduced as beneficiaries.

1.5         Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Investment Climate and Institutional Strengthening (US$15.92 million)

23.     The aim of this component was to help: (i) implement the key recommendations that
emerged from the investment climate assessment of 2004 and improve the country’s legal and
regulatory framework in key areas so as better performances are reflected in the Doing Business
indicators; and (ii) strengthen both policymaking and operational capabilities in key sectors with
a high growth contribution potential.

Component 2: Infrastructure Support for Growth (US$24.49 million)

24.    This component was designed to improve economy-wide and sectoral total factor
productivity by enhancing available infrastructure. This was planned to encompass: (i) the
development of an industrial zone; (ii) the improvement of the Bamako airport; (iii) the support
to the expansion of the telecommunications network; and (iv) the support to infrastructure
improvement for tourism and mining.




11
     Direction Nationale de la Géologie et des Mines.
12
     Stratégies et Techniques d’Envol des Entreprises (Enterprise Take-off Strategies and Techniques)


                                                                 5
Component 3: Financial and Nonfinancial Services for Innovation and Development
(US$8.83 million)

25.    The aim of this component was to increase term financing for MSMEs and quality
business development services (BDS). The term financing subcomponent aimed to provide a
technical assistance in credit enhancement facility and a trade finance enhancement facility and a
standby liquidity facility, was dependent on successful discussions with the West African States
Central Bank – BCAO. 13 The BDS subcomponent aimed at providing quality business
development services (BDS) to MSMEs, including supply chains, so that they can innovate,
develop and increase their output and productivity. Under this subcomponent, through
consultancies and matching grants, support was expected to be provided specifically to selected
value chains that had a high potential to create jobs for the poor (for example, the artisanal textile
industry and leather activities).

Component 4: Project Implementation, Monitoring, and Evaluation (US$3.02 million)

26.     The project was to be implemented primarily by technical ministries and agencies with
the technical support of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). During project preparation, the
Government was to appoint the National Center for Investment Promotion (CNPI) to serve as
project coordinator with the support of the World Bank financed Financial Sector Development
PCU for procurement and financial management activities. The competitively selected PCU staff
was to be placed under the purview of the Ministry of Investment Promotion and Small and
Medium Enterprises. The PCU was accountable to the project steering committee and oversaw
procurement, financial management, reporting, audits, monitoring and evaluation for the project.
In addition, the PCU was to hire, as needed, technical assistance to help implement specific
activities such as those pertaining to access to finance and direct support to enterprises.

27.     Although beneficiaries were to retain oversight of relevant technical aspects of the
project, the coordination arrangement was organized to ensure the needed strong
complementarity in both policies and implementation. The PCU was to be responsible for
preparing biannual progress reports, facilitating the mid-term progress review, ensuring adequate
monitoring and evaluation, undertaking the impact assessment of the project, ensuring an orderly
closing of the project, and leading the preparation of the Implementation Completion and Results
Report.

1.6         Revised Components

28.    Following the restructuring in June 2009, the numbers of components were raised from
four to nine. Except for eliminating some of the infrastructure activities, most activities were
carried over from the PAD. Sub-components in the original design of the project became
components by themselves.

29.    Component 1: Investment Climate (US$5.36 million). The investment climate sub-
component was streamlined to focus on priority activities including (i) strengthening the legal
and regulatory framework for private investments through the preparation of an investment code,


13
     Banque Centrale des Etats d’Afrique de 1’Ouest (BCEAO).


                                                               6
in line with best international practice; (ii) supporting the establishment and strengthening of
capacity of the API - Mali, including the implementation and management of the One-Stop-Shop
for investors (Guichet Unique); (iii) supporting the coordinating activities of the Presidential
Council of Investments (CPI); and (iv) supporting the establishment and implementation of the
Business and Commercial Credit Registry.

30.      Component 2: Airports of Mali (US$2.56 million). During Project implementation, the
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) provided a grant of US$181 million under its Mali
Compact14 to the Government of Mali to: (i) expand and rehabilitate runways and taxiways; (ii)
build a new passenger terminal at Bamako-Senou airport; and (iii) build an industrial zone at the
airport. 15 As a result, the rehabilitation of the existing passenger terminal that was under
discussion to be funded under World Bank financing was later dropped from the Project. At
restructuring, the component was changed to focus entirely on supporting the development and
implementation of a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for Airports of Mali (ADM) and the
industrial zone at the airport. MCC had made the preparation and implementation of a PPP for
Airports of Mali a condition for the funding of infrastructure investments at Bamako-Senou
airport. MCC dropped the industrial zone component in a formal restructuring in September
2008.

31.     Component 3: Industrial Zone (US$5.08 million). The implementation of this
component was streamlined to focus on two activities: (i) preparing the legal and regulatory
framework for the establishment and development of industrial zones; and (ii) supporting
infrastructure investments for the establishment of the industrial zone of Bamako-Senou.

32.     Component 4: Telecommunications (US$10.44 million). The telecommunications
component was to support the continuation of already planned activities: (i) improving the legal
and regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector; (ii) developing the
telecommunications sector through (a) the provision of support for the privatization and post
privatization of SOTELMA; (b) provision of frequency spectrum management and control
equipment, computer equipment and software; (c) strengthening the Telecommunication
Regulatory Authority (CRT)'s operational and regulatory capacities; (d) carrying out training and
dissemination activities; and (iii) supporting the expansion of the telecommunications network in
rural areas.

33.     Component 5: Tourism (US$3.84 million). The implementation of the tourism
component was to strengthen and to support the implementation of the tourism development
strategy of Mali in cooperation with the World Tourism Organization and the Office of Tourism
of Mali (OMATHO). The component was to support the continuation of already planned
activities including: (i) the implementation of priority activities under the Government's Tourism
Development Strategy for Mali, including promotion of tourism activities and the development
of statistics and impact studies related to tourism; and (ii) the physical rehabilitation of cultural
monuments and investments in campgrounds and touristic trails.




14
     The Compact was for a total of US$ 460,811,164, signed in November 13, 2006.
15
     MCC (2012), Final Status Report, Mali Compact, December 2012.


                                                               7
34.     Component 6: Handicraft (US$2.14 million). The handicraft component was to support
the continuation of already planned activities: (i) rehabilitating the weaving workshop
(Tissuthèque) facilities; (ii) promoting handicraft export activities through the preparation of
legal and regulatory framework for handicraft marketing activities; (iii) provision of technical
assistance for the establishment of the Economic Interest Group 16 to market large-scale
handicraft production; and (iv) carrying out promotional activities of the National Artisan
Center.

35.     Component 7: Development of Financial Services (US$9.03 million). This component
was redesigned and included: (i) the provision of technical assistance for the privatization of the
BIM and the restructuring of BHM; (ii) supporting the development of electronic payment
system, in particular through the development of mobile banking; (iii) strengthening the
supervision mechanisms of micro-finance institutions; (iv) provision of technical assistance for
the preparation of legal and regulatory framework for the establishment of an asset management
corporation for the recovery of bank loans; and (v) strengthening the capacities of commercial
banks to provide medium and long-term financing for small and medium enterprises through
establishing a Risk Sharing Facility for qualifying banks and the provision of technical advisory
services and training to participating banks in relation to small and medium enterprises and /or
microfinance institution lending.

36.      Component 8: Enterprises Support Services (US$4.54 million). This component was
to support the continuation of already planned activities: assisting in the establishment of the
Enterprise Support Services Fund (ESSF) to strengthen business development services (BDS)
through the provision of ESSF/BDS grants and technical assistance. Those BDS services were to
include training, advisory services, and business advisory services to: (i) small and medium
enterprises with a particular focus on sectors with high potential for growth such as tourism,
craft, leather and textile products, mining and telecom in order to improve their competitiveness;
and (ii) business development service providers to improve their services to small and medium
enterprises, including (a) support for the preparation and implementation of an accreditation
program for consultants; and (b) carrying out activities designed to improve the targeting of
business development services to microenterprises.

37.     Component 9: Mining (US$7.87 million). This component was streamlined and was to
focus on four key activities: (i) carrying out studies on the diversification of non-gold mining;
(ii) provision of technical assistance in the area of mining research; (iii) developing small and
medium-scale mining activities; and (iv) supporting the improvement in transparency of
financial flows in the sector, in line with Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI).

38.     Project Coordination (US$4.33 million). The operational manual was updated, an M&E
staff added to the PCU team, and the project coordinator, a seconded government official, was
appointed in May 2009 on a permanent basis.




16
     Groupe d 'Interêt Economique (GIE).


                                                8
1.7      Other Significant Changes

39.     In 2008, the project took on some activities that were had been developed initiated by the
World Bank financed Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP). These included the
feasibility of an asset management corporation for recovery of bank loans;17 support to the civil
procedures code 18 ; the privatization of the International Bank of Mali (BIM); and the
restructuring of BHM.

40.     The DFA was amended on October 20, 2005, on June 25, 2008 and on June 30, 2009. In
2005, the amendment was to include the eligibility of taxes to be paid from the project. In 2008,
the amendment made provisions for the Risk Sharing Facility with IFC. In 2009, the project was
restructured and the closing date was extended by one year from June 2011 to September 2012.
Disbursement estimates were also revised when the project was restructured.

41.    In an agreement between the Government and the Bank in July 2011 the project was
closed six months prior to its revised closing date. The new closing data was now March 30,
2012. Following the coup d’état in March 2012, the Bank suspended all project activities in
Mali which resulted in the project’s remaining in the Bank system until September 30, 2012,
although it had been closed in March 2012.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

42.     The project was designed over the period of 2003 to 2005 as a six-year investment credit.
The project was financed by a US$19.5 million IDA credit and a US$35.5 million IDA grant. A
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) had been put in place to prepare the various components,
including the strategic environmental and social assessment (SESA). The project was approved
on February 15, 2005, and became effective on September 30, 2005. The PAD stated that the
preparation drew extensively on lessons learned from the previous private sector development
project completed in 2002 and from other Bank-supported projects in Mali.

43.    Project preparation leveraged global knowledge and received inputs from various units of
the World Bank. This involved expertise of the World Bank’s global product groups such as the
small and medium enterprise department, mining, global information and communication
technologies department, the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), IFC, and the
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.

44.    The project was to be a “pioneer project? similar to the Madagascar Growth Pole Project.
The minutes of the decision meeting highlighted the “absence of best practices for designing
such projects?.19




17
   Société de gestion du patrimoine.
18
   Code de procédures civiles, commerciales et sociales, CPCCS.
19
   World Bank (2005c), Minutes of World Bank decision meeting, January 8, 2005.


                                                            9
45.     The project design was overly complex as demonstrated by the wide ranging PDO that
lacked specificity, demonstrated measurement difficulty and faced the problem of result
attribution. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) report from June 2008 stated that the “region
had opted for a broad scope that combined into one project a number of efforts that might have
performed better as separate projects: investment climate reform, infrastructure development,
mining, tourism, and financial services.? 20 The project, by design, seemed to have been a
response to constraints identified by the 2004 ICA and thus lacked selectivity, prioritization and
sequencing of intervention in support of Mali’s growth.

46.     Furthermore, the Bank and the Government had unrealistic expectations about the
capacity in the public service in Mali to implement such a complex multi-sectoral project. On
one hand, the project planned reforming and introducing a myriad of laws and regulations. On
the other hand, it included planning and building infrastructure at the Bamako airport, in rural
areas (ICT), in decentralized mining locations as well as in tourist sites and protected nature
parks. In addition, the Task Team Leaders (TTLs), except the last one, and most of the team
members were based in Washington. Even a higher than normal allocation of supervision budget
as discussed in the initial decision meeting would not have mitigated the risks emanating from
this level of technical complexity, the observed low execution capacity in both the World Bank
and the Government and the lack of proximity to supervise the project closely.

47.      The World Bank’s regular decision meeting review made valid suggestions for
improvement and simplification. However, the meeting failed to request bold overhauls.
Important points in the decision meeting minutes were not taken into account, such as the
recommendations to: (i) further elaborate the responsibilities for technical implementation of
activities between the PCU and line ministries; and (ii) clearly define roles and accountabilities
between IFC and World Bank. The overall conclusion of the decision meeting was in order “to
reduce complexity, inter alia in project implementation arrangements, the team may want to
consider, if feasible, a phased startup of activities?. No visible changes were made in the PAD to
implement this recommendation. Other than for the Special Economic Zone21 sub-component the
PAD did not speak about a phased approach. Yet, during implementation such an approach
seemed to have been followed in the implementation of the ICT and mining infrastructures.

48.   The PAD’s and DFA’s results framework showed weaknesses (see Section 2.3 of this
ICR below). The minutes of the decision meeting did not reflect any discussion on the results
framework. The project did not undergo a quality enhancement review.

49.    Donor coordination and a frank exchange with the Government on the approach
regarding the airport and Special Economic Zone sub-component and it being managed through
a concession, seem to have been missed in the preparation phase. Being precise and frank about
other donor programs was another recommendation made at the decision meeting. A table
summarizing financial and private sector development donor programs were added to the PAD.
However, MCC seems to have decided at a time after project approval to build the airport and
the industrial zone. The PAD also stated that during project preparation consultations with civil


20
   World Bank (2008b), Quality Assurance Group report, Review of Project Portfolio in Africa Guidance Framework, Mali
Growth Support Project, June 2008.
21
   Used interchangeably with industrial zone.


                                                            10
society and private sector had taken place. However, communication and outreach with the
different stakeholders, especially with the local private sector, during implementation, was not
foreseen. This affected the image of the project which at the ICR stage was highly criticized by
segments of the private sector.

2.2      Implementation

50.   On the positive side, the following principles were important for a positive development
outcome.

51.     Partnership with IFC was successful. Starting in 2008, the project cooperated with the
IFC in: (i) Doing Business reforms, especially the creation of the one-stop-shop for business
creation and investment at API; (ii) the modernization of the RCCM; (iii) the investment code
and the regulation for the industrial zone; and (iv) the RSF for SMEs.

52.    Institutional reforms pursued by the project also performed well. This included
support to improving doing business. Some infrastructure works such as rehabilitation works
performed well.

53.      Overall, project implementation experienced a number of challenges.

54.     Lack of leadership. The Public-Private Steering Committee which was to supervise the
project and coordinate donors did not function well. The QAG report from June 2008 noted that
the project’s Steering Committee met only infrequently. The QAG report also noted that the
restructuring of the ministry into the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade, the appointment
of a new Minister at the beginning of 2008, and the firing of the project coordinator around that
same time had negatively affected the project. Ministers in the Ministry of Economy, Industry
and Trade changed four times during the main project implementation period (2005-2011).
Equally the Minister of Mines changed four times during the same period.

55.     Complexity of the institutional and technical arrangements. At the start of the project,
according to the DFA, the PCU was to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with a number of
Ministries benefiting from the Project. 22 Each agency was to designate a focal point to the
project. Once established, the focal points at several ministries had challenging relationships with
the PCU. The QAG report attributed this to the lack of clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
Many of the focal points had no experience on how procurement processes had to be followed
and organized. Some had expectations to manage their allocated share of project costs
independently from the PCU, which had to be clarified. In the mining sector, project
implementation suffered from the outset due to a lack of coordination between the focal point
and the PCU. Difficulties arose especially around procurement questions, which hampered
disbursements.




22
   Among them the Ministry of Tourism, of Transport and Equipment, of Telecommunication, of Mining, of Finance. Other
Ministries included in the protocol were the Ministry of Justice (MJ), the Ministry of Housing, Land and urban matters (MLAFU).
Other agencies were the Presidential Investors Council (CPI), OMATHO and the Agency for Investment Promotion.


                                                             11
56.     Failure of donor coordination compounded by lack of government leadership on the
airport and industrial zone development. Failure of donor coordination for the airport and the
special economic zone sub-component was a severe constraint to move the infrastructure
component forward. In November 2006, at the beginning of the second year of implementation,
the World Bank team was informed that the United States-funded Millennium Challenge
Corporation (MCC) had signed a compact with the Government to: (i) rehabilitate and enlarge
the runway, (ii) build a new passenger terminal at the airport and (iii) build an industrial zone
near the airport. Despite confirmation by the Government that the activities for this sub-
component stayed as signed in the DFA, no agreement was reached with MCC or the
government on the viability of the respective construction. In 2008, the MCC decided to drop the
industrial zone component and to reallocate the resources to the airport terminal part.23

57.     Lack of Government ownership for the PPP arrangement for airport and industrial
zone, which led to delays and finally the cancellation of the sub-component. After intensive
discussion among the World Bank, MCC and the Government during the July 2008 mission, the
Government indicated that it wanted the World Bank to pay for the rehabilitation of the old
terminal without the PPP approach, while MCC was to build the new passenger terminal. The
rationale for the World Bank’s decision to drop the construction of the airport infrastructure at
the time of restructuring was that the technical analysis of the rehabilitation of the existing
terminal had been carried out as if no new terminal would be built, and the technical analysis of
the new terminal had been carried out as if the existing terminal would be transformed into a
commercial center. The World Bank team requested a comprehensive economic analysis of the
airport project before any physical investment took place. However, the authorities, while
recognizing the technical validity of the Bank team arguments, declined to carry out such
analysis with the argument that the decision to proceed with the construction of the new terminal
had already been made.

58.    At the same time, the Government stated it would still be interested in private
participation at the airport. To respond to the Government’s request the World Bank
committed to assist the Government by hiring a PPP transaction advisor that would be
responsible for finding a concessionaire for the airport and the industrial zone. The PPP
arrangement was made also a condition for MCC to start its construction activities for the new
terminal. Yet MCC did not provide necessary technical information to the hired transaction
advisor. Later, the MCC dropped the condition to have regulation in place to manage the airport
through a PPP. At the ICR interview stage, it seemed that the Government and especially ADM
had since project start resisted a PPP option for airport management, despite declarations in the
2005 Government Policy letter of private sector development. Moreover, the proposed Special
Economic Zone regulation with a PPP arrangement did not get implemented. The IFC, former
FIAS, had been advising the Government on the regulation since 2005.

59.    Early warning signs of project implementation were not acted on. Due to difficulties
experienced in the airport infrastructure sub-component and in the project’s institutional
arrangements, the main ratings were downgraded to moderately satisfactory in June 2006. Also,


23
  World Bank (2008), Quality Assurance Group (QAG) report, Review of project portfolio in Africa Guidance Framework, June
2008.


                                                           12
in December 2006, the World Bank team rated the airport sub-component moderately
unsatisfactory. The moderately unsatisfactory rating remained through December 2008. The
Implementation Status Report of June 2007 proposed advancing the MTR. The infrastructure
component was a likely candidate for a restructuring early on, in addition to the rural ICT pilots
and artisanal mining demonstration projects that as well did not get off the ground in these first
two years.

60.     The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was a missed opportunity to simplify and scale down
the project. Disbursement rate at restructuring was 27.5 percent. The main reason for the delay
of the MTR was the negotiations with the MCC on the division of labor; A formal level one
restructuring was approved by the Board in July 20, 2009. The MTR proposed the restructuring
of the project that organized project components by beneficiary sectors instead of type of
interventions. However, it was not a major simplification, nor was the institutional arrangement
streamlined or significantly strengthened to address the observed weaknesses. The financial
sector component had actually been revised even before the restructuring, i.e., activities were
added (see Annex 2, Component Financial Services).

61.     Restructuring did not simplify and reduce project components. At restructuring some
sub-components were dropped, some other components however became more complex. It was
decided that the special economic zone/industrial park infrastructure component should be kept.
The component was expected to finance the construction of part of the infrastructure and
technical assistance to assist the Government to organize a PPP for the future industrial zone and
the airport. The infrastructure works for the airport, for rural communities and for demonstration
pilots for artisanal mining were dropped. Yet, the financial sector component was added and
included the privatization of banks, micro finance regulation and supervision, mobile banking
pilots and legal reforms.

62.    Delays in procurement. The borrower raised complaints about delays in many
procurement processes. This can be explained by technical back and forth discussions between
the Government and the World Bank over Terms of References. These exchanges are well
documented after the restructuring. In some instances, the Bank’s response was slow.

63.     Lack of planning and consultation and lack of flexibility to include local
communities in the procurement for historical tourism infrastructure. The project costs
table in the PAD clearly foresaw the tourism infrastructure to be built using international
contracts. 24 Interviews conducted with OMATHO as part of ICR preparation and the
Government’s ICR (see Annex 4) revealed that lack of understanding and/or flexibility on the
World Bank side did not allow for communities’ involvement in the rehabilitation works of these
cultural sites. The World Bank team cited the adherence to World Bank procurement policies.
However, the World Bank’s Procurement guidelines allow for the hiring of local communities to
execute works. 25 Due to these differences, these works did not get implemented.26



24
   The restructured component kept the rehabilitation of the cultural, historical sites in Timbuktu and Mopti, and the building of
basic accommodation (rural camping sites) in Mopti and Djenne.
25
   World Bank (2011), Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers, January 2011.


                                                                13
2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

64.     The original PDO indicators were not well chosen. The original PDO indicators
measured neither the achievement of the PDO nor the results from project activities. The
increase of the number of formal firms would not follow directly from any of the project’s
activities. Additional number of jobs created could also not be deduced from any activity other
than the BDS sub-component. The BDS sub-component was primarily focused on improving the
supply of BDS. The financial services were not linked to job creation.

65.     The revised PDO indicators were partially linked to the revised PDO. Time taken to
approve a new investment was linked to the strengthening of API. Bank credit to SMEs economy
wide could not be measured due to two factors: first, the BCEAO changed their method of
measuring and secondly, only two out of nine banks participated in the partial risk guarantee
scheme. Earlier documents had stated that the increase of credit to SMEs should be linked to
participating banks only, not measured economy wide, but the project measured the economy
wide indicator. The target for the third PDO indicator, creation of 500 jobs by firms supported by
the ESSF was not realistic. In the three years after restructuring the use of BDS would not
necessarily result in large job growth. The goal of BDS is to foster the firms’ productivity,
innovation capacity and in the long-term growth. In a mature BDS market, which Mali is not,
this could have been an ambitious target.

66.     In addition, the results framework in the PAD and the DFA showed some inconsistencies.
The PAD included two PDO and 17 results indicators (intermediate indicators). Ten of them
were reflected in the DFA, two of which had different targets compared to targets in the results
framework in the PAD. At restructuring three PDO indicators and ten intermediary indicators
were introduced, with only one intermediary indicator staying the same as the original
framework. Some inconsistencies appeared in the PAD such as: (i) additional indicators were
included in a “tracking instrument?,27 yet not in the results framework; (ii) one of the two PDO
indicators in the PAD had the wrong baseline data (i.e. number of formal firms); (iii) the method
of measurement for another indicator was not well defined (such as the survey for measuring
PDO indicator “job creation?); and (iv) “access to ICT? was not well defined.28

67.     The PAD stated, that the outcome indicators were selected “(i) because they constituted
the most meaningful and attributable measures of overall project success; and (ii) because they
were directly measurable.? This last statement is surprising as statistical information on the
second indicator “number of formal enterprises" was not easy to attain due to lack of availability
and of quality of statistical data. This was apparent already at project start, when a wrong number
as baseline for the PDO indicator ‘number of formal firms’ was provided.

68.     The project did not build a strong M&E system, neither at project start, nor at
restructuring, nor during implementation. The preparation team did not include an M&E
specialist. The PCU at project start did not hire a M&E specialist. A M&E staff for the PCU was
hired in 2009. Both the PAD and the restructuring paper foresaw an elaborate monitoring and


26
   At project start the estimated costs were US$1.13 million and after restructuring US$140,000.
27
   The tracking instrument was an annex in the PAD,
28
   The teledensity indicator most likely was supposed to read “increased to 7 percent?, instead “increased by 7 percent?.


                                                               14
evaluation framework, including a series of surveys. Yet from the project cost and budget tables
it is clear, that these surveys were not budgeted for, nor was the system put in place at PAD,
restructuring or a later stage. The envisioned surveys did not get started.

69.     Starting after restructuring in 2009 monitoring tables were established, yet gaps in these
tables were not filled with either proxy indicators or replaced with relevant indicators. These
gaps were left empty or unreliable information was utilized. A case in point was the credit to
SME as percentage to overall loans. The West African States Central Bank (BCAO) issued
figures on SME lending that did not corroborate with the reality but the PCU continued to report
and utilize this same unreliable set of information. The monitoring did not make use the basic
information on SME lending under the RSF. Data was not collected from the two participating
banks on indicators such as the number of loans under the RSF, volume of loans, characteristics
of firms or sales of firms.

70.    Neither the PCU nor focal points monitored risks, progress or quality of implementation
for most of the components. Issues raised on the quality of construction in the Tissuthek, which
were completed late in the project, were not reported until the ICR stage. Roles and
responsibilities for monitoring seemed not to have been clearly defined with the implementing
agencies in terms of their reporting and monitoring progress despite having been supported by
the project with cars and gasoline. Another issue seems to have been the capacity of
implementing agencies to provide regular quality reports and to send them in electronic form to
the PCU, supervising agencies or the World Bank. At the ICR stage, as an example only two
agencies provided excel spreadsheets with statistical information, namely the Airports of Mali
and the Bank of Africa.

71.    Exceptions were the STEP and the RSF programs, which were regularly monitored.
STEP’s coordinator monitored the program with monthly and yearly reports. The program was
evaluated in mid-2010 and STEPs regulator monitoring could have benefitted from more clearly
defined indicators. Equally, Bank of Africa sent to IFC RSF quarterly reports. The RSF reports
however were not shared on a regular basis with the World Bank.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

72.     The project was a category B project under the environmental safeguard policy
(OP/BP/GP 4.01), and a strategic environmental and social assessment was carried out. This
assessment identified the environmental and social potential impacts, as they related to water,
land resources and biodiversity. It has also identified the possible positive and negative impacts
of project sub-components. The environmental impacts were linked mostly to the infrastructure,
of which large parts were dropped at restructuring.

73.     One safeguard policy which should have been applied in more detail was the cultural
property OP 11.03, (since 2006 OP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources). The PAD stated that
this policy was not triggered. The PAD also stated that the Strategic Environmental and Social
Assessment (SESA) 29 produced in October 2004 made suggestions and thought that the negative


29
  Ministry of Investment Promotion, Small and Medium Enterprises (2004), Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
(Evaluation Environmentale et Sociale Stratégique), October 2004.


                                                           15
impact would be minimal. However, the SESA clearly states that the Project would trigger the
World Bank’s Cultural Property operational policy, OP 4.11. The policy is triggered due to the
rehabilitation of historical monuments, some of them UNESCO world heritage sites, in
Timbuktu and Mopti. The SESA also stated that the Project was expected to have major positive
environmental and social impact. Furthermore, the SESA recommended that local communities
should have been involved in the rehabilitation of the tourism component. The policy OP 4.11
would have required a physical cultural resource management plan. The various TTLs seem to
have overlooked this at project start, at restructuring and during implementation. Given the
difference between the Bank and the Borrower about the involvement of communities in the
rehabilitation of the cultural sites and the subsequent failure to implement them, this appears to
have been a major shortcoming of the project’s design and implementation.

74.     Three years into the project, in June 2008 the project’s procurement was rated
‘moderately unsatisfactory’ (MU). At MTR, the World Bank team upgraded the procurement
rating to moderately satisfactory which was maintained until project closing. In August 2009, an
Independent Procurement Review (IPR) was performed and rated procurement moderately
satisfactory.30 Two contracts for the total amount of US$185,000, six percent of total reviewed
contract amount was considered as not conform to World Bank procurement procedures. The
recommendation was (i) to improve the coordination with the beneficiary institutions to be
proactive and solve problems; and (ii) to effectively implement a process of quality control
covering all procurement and contract management phases. Also, a second procurement
specialist was hired in 2011. Several, some large, contracts stalled during the procurement
process and were not implemented. Some of the contracts that were not implemented include: (i)
rehabilitation of the cultural sites in the tourism component due to differences between the Bank
and the PCU on the involvement of local communities in the rehabilitation of the sites; (ii) a
frequency spectrum management and monitoring equipment; 31 (iii) mining exploration
equipment, and (iv) the telecom universal access pilots.32

75.     With regard to financial management of funds, at MTR, in March 2009, the World Bank
team discovered the use of counterpart funds for non-project related, and therefore ineligible
activities, and as well as a high level of spending on investment promotion by the Ministry of
Industry, which was cleared. In 2008, the World Bank carried out reviews on project budgets and
disbursement. Following the MTR mission, the Bank undertook a financial management in-depth
review for counterpart funds and the investment promotion expenditures. The result was that
about a third or about US$500,000 of the counterpart funds used from 2006-2008 were used for
ineligible expenditures. The expenses for investment promotion of US$ 800,000 between 2006
and 2008 were cleared as eligible expenditures. The MTR review mission stated equally that PPF
funds used for non-project related activities at CRT had to be reimbursed to the Bank. Those
funds were reimbursed.

76.    In the Aide Memoire of July 2010, the decision was taken to separate the administration
of counterpart funds from the project’s accounting. In a meeting among the Ministry of Economy


30
   The IPR examined a sample of contracts (22 out of 76) concluded by the PCU between 2006, August 2 and 2009, June 16. In:
World Bank (2009c), Revue indépendante des procédures de passation des marches.
31
   The cost of the equipment was estimated at US$4 million.
32
   World Bank (2010), Aide-mémoire July 2010.


                                                            16
and Finance, the PCU coordinator and the World Bank mission, the Government confirmed that
there would be a total separation between the funds managed by the PCU and the government
allocation which would be managed by the Director for Finance of the counterpart ministry.

77.      The same mission raised the issue of necessary improvements on internal audits, namely:
(i) the signature of an Memorandum of Understanding with the Office of the Auditor General33 to
ensure a functioning internal audit; (ii) the implementation of the recommendations formulated
by the Auditor General in his last mission; and (iii) the finalization of the reconciliation between
the register of fixed assets and accounting in order to have feasible accounting records.

2.5         Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

78.     The Government of Mali, even in a post-conflict situation and under budget constraints is
funding and expanding excellence in newly created facilitator institutions such as API and
CTRCA, for its leadership and its role in facilitating public-private dialogue. These units should
continue to strive for strong leadership and regional and international visibility show-casting
Mali as a dynamic reformer economy. This is especially important in this post-conflict era.
CTRCA should continue to implement the multi-annual plan for investment climate reforms for
2012-2015 and function as secretariat for the public-private dialogue committee and expand its
effectiveness. Some activities have been finalized and are operational, such as the NINA
database. Other projects, such as the computerization of the commercial registry were not
completed due to the early project closure.

79.      Since project closing, the Government mobilized its own resources to assure the
sustainability of API Mali and the one-stop-shop for business registration which promises
significant impact on investment promotion, SME development and the development of SME
statistics in Mali. Following project closing, and in the face of the current difficult socio-
economic context resulting from the recent crisis, the Government requested IDA assistance for
an immediate follow-up private sector operation. The Government stated that particularly in the
current situation it would be urgent to create jobs and growth and address the challenges facing
Mali's MSME sector.

80.      This ICR recognizes that the institutional improvements achieved under this project
should be further strengthened if Mali is expected to continue on the successful path of reform
that it has undertaken through this project and during the time of implementation.




33
     Contrôle Général des Services Publics.


                                                17
3.          Assessment of Outcomes

3.1         Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

81.         Rating: negligible.

82.     The project’s objectives were aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy 34 objective to
(i) promote rapid and broad-based growth, and is aligned with the first and second pillar of the
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework Within the CAS pillar, the Bank was to
focus on private-sector-led growth by addressing key constraints such as energy and finance and
by linking the country to the rest of the world.

83.     The objectives of the project, original and revised remain relevant. Stimulating private
sector investment and performance by increasing total factor productivity, targeting sectoral
sources of growth and improving the investment climate, with a focus on reducing the cost of
doing business and fostering growth in sectors including mining, tourism and crafts, and
telecommunications, was and is relevant and in line with current World Bank global practice
groups on competitive industries and on innovation and technology. Also, the revised
development objective of creating the conditions for increased investment through investment
climate reforms, improved financial services, and the provision of non-financial services to
private enterprises were and are highly relevant. Access to finance has been raised by small and
medium enterprises as the single most important constraint to invest.35 However, the fact, that
the overall development objective statement was relevant does not mean that the development
objective was well articulated. It should be emphasized that the choice of total factor
productivity in the PDO of the PAD was unwise. Total factor productivity needs to be calculated
on a time series basis, it is not clearly attributable, and large data sets are needed which in a
country with low data availability is largely impossible. The complexity of the project starts with
the overloaded PDO that led to a complex design of the project that wanted to include many very
different sectors. In fact, each of the following: improving the investment climate, fostering
growth; stimulating private sector investment; and increasing total factor productivity that are
part of the original objective are objectives by themselves.

84.     Thus, the objective is rated relevant because the different objectives subsumed under the
project objective are important to support growth in Mali. Improvements of airport facilities and
the construction of a Special Economic Zone at the airport was a project activity with potentially
transformational impact which could reduce costs of doing business with and within a
landlocked country in need of a good logistics for goods and passengers. Linked to this design
was the regulation to provide for PPP options to manage both the airport as well as the special
economic zone. This PPP arrangement was equally relevant as a design feature considering the
many industrial zones in emerging countries attracting investment, new technologies, training
centers and employment.




34
     World Bank (2007), Country Assistance Strategy for Mali 2007.
35
     World Bank (2010b), SME, Growth and Diversification Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) Mali, July 2011.




                                                             18
85.      But the design and the restructuring failed in formulating a project commensurate with
Mali’s capacity to implement. The number of institutions involved (eight ministries and other
agencies) and the number of activities to be supported under the project made it difficult to
implement. Even within infrastructure work, the number of areas to cover was a burden on the
PCU. Airport, industrial zone, rehabilitation works needed different skills sets. Activities ranged
from BDS, artisans, micro-finance, transport and mining to institutional reform to improve
business environment and sector performance. The design, coordination and management of
these activities would have required different areas of expertise – the ICR estimated that at least
20 professional staff would have been needed including sector specialists, engineers, lawyers,
evaluation specialists or statisticians, communication experts and a strong integrator, to plan,
manage, execute, monitor and evaluate the outcomes of the different activities the project
planned to support. The PCU actually had only five staff, at project start: a coordinator, an
engineer, a Director for Finance, an accountant, and a procurement officer. The effective
implementation of the multitude of activities and the necessary coordination of the participating
institutions was not manageable for the Government with the resources and capacity at hand.
This was evident before and after restructuring. Clearly, selectivity based on priority, realism and
sequencing was not part of the design deliberation neither at project start nor at restructuring.

86.     The design also appeared to have failed to seek a complete ownership of the government
and stakeholders for critical activities during project design. For example, Government’s
rethinking of the PPP arrangement for the airport caused the World Bank to abandon the
project’s largest infrastructure component. The same applied to the PPP regulation for special
economic zones which did not go forward. Options to mitigate this risk should have been
developed at the start of the project or options quickly redesigned in cooperation with FIAS. The
PAD stated that the Government had made two previous attempts to look for a concessionaire for
the airport and had failed. The July 2008 mission notes in its Aide Memoire that these two failed
attempts have not been analyzed. The PAD in its risk section also states that it assumes that the
Government sticks to its commitment for A PPP. The relative success of traffic trends at the
airport shows that public management of the airport was able to steadily improve results. This
may indicate that sufficient analysis had not been conducted before fully embarking on project
design.

87.     The design of BDS to improve firm performance was relevant yet the mechanism at
project start was confusing and undefined. The support was supposed to focus on the BSD
supply side and on stimulating demand. BDS for targeted sectors were to serve as demonstration
pilots. The focus on both sectoral and on size distribution, i.e. micro-enterprises was confusing.36

88.     With regard to the planned supply chain support, the choice of the tourism, handicrafts
and mining sectors was justifiable due to the sectors’ growth potential and growth trends (see
Figures 1, 2 and 4). However the instruments chosen to support the sectors were a mix of
interventions which were not supported by an institutional analysis or by an adequate team of
sector experts to implement. Further analysis of interventions, institutions and cooperation with
the private sector would have been needed. Especially in the tourism, and handicraft sector,
support and/or partnerships for training and product development with private organizations


36
     A BDS market study had been done in 2003.


                                                 19
would have likely yielded more success than working with the public institution, the National
Artisan Center, the Tissuthek and OMATHO. A case in point is the existence of private weaving
workshops that for many years have trained young artisans, artists and even foreign tourists.
These workshops have market linkages and networks that could have been leveraged. Artisans at
the upper end also received assistance from the Swiss cooperation.37

3.2         Achievement of Project Development Objectives

89.         The overall outcome of the PDO is rated unsatisfactory.

Original Project Development Objectives

90.     The original development objective was to “stimulate private sector investment and
performance by increasing total factor productivity and targeting sectoral sources of growth?. Per
DFA the objective of the Project was “to improve the investment climate, with a focus on
reducing the cost of doing business and on fostering growth contribution from high potential
sectors, including mining, tourism and crafts, and telecommunications?. The project restructuring
in 2009 revised the PDO to “create the conditions for increased private investment through
investment climate reforms, improved financial services and the provision of non-financial
services to private enterprises?.

91.     Thus, the project outcome will be first evaluated from the perspective of pre-and-post
restructuring investment levels.

92.    Measuring total factor productivity was not established at the PAD stage and not at
project closing. Investment in targeted sectors, including the telecom, mining, tourism and
handicraft sectors rose in all sub-sectors during the project period (see Figures 1, 3, 4 and 5). The
project created an enabling environment for expansion of investment in some sectors by
supporting the removal of constraints, but the project was not directly responsible for most of the
investment increases. In handicrafts, export numbers are used, as investment data are not
available. In addition, employment increase can be measured only for the tourism sector.

93.     The outcome will first be measured by changes in level of investment. Investment in the
telecom sector amounted to US$1,066 million in the project period. From 2005 to 2009 it
increased from 0 to 429. One of the impacts of this investment was an exponential rise in
teledensity.38 Between 2005 and 2012 teledensity for cell phones rose by 1,081 percent and for
fixed lines by 15 percent (see Figures 1 and 2).




37
     See World Bank (2005a) PAD, Annex 2
38
     An intermediary indicator for both the original and the revised project


                                                                  20
          Figure 1: Investment in telecom                     Figure 2: Teledensity for cell phones increased
                                                                                manyfold




            Source: World Bank PPI database                                     Source: ITU

94.     Capital investment in the tourism sector amounted to US$658.6 million in the project
period. Between 2006 and 2011 investment rose by 30 percent, it fell 17 percent between 2011
and 2012 (Figure 3). Employment in tourism showed the same trend, between 2006 and 2011 it
rose 21 percent and fell 17 percent between 2010 and 2011. Tourism investment resulted in an
increase of 157 percent of the number of hotels and in an increase of 79 percent of number of
hotel rooms in the same period. Tourist arrivals grew by eight percent from 2005 to 2008,
however fell four percent from 2008 to 2011 (Figure 4). Artisan exports rose by 52 percent
between 2008 and 2011 (earlier numbers were not available).

          Figure 3: Investment in tourism                     Figure 4: Air arrivals, tourists and hotel rooms




  Source: World Travel and Tourism Council, Travel and                Source: OMATHO, Airports of Mali
          Tourism Economic Impact 2013, Mali

95.    Mining investments followed the trend of mining exports by rising 125 percent between
2005 and 2010. Mining exports rose by 406 percent from 2005 to 2008, and then fell 91 percent
from 2008 to 2010.




                                                         21
                                    Figure 5: Investments in mining and exports




                                        Source: World Bank Development Indicators

96.     In terms of improved financial services for SME, the SME partial credit guarantee or
Risk Sharing Facility was partially successful. 306 firms benefitted from the credit program for
loans from 1-5 years for a total of US$12.24 million with an average credit of US$40,000 in the
case of Bank of Africa, eight firms with an average loan of US$200,000 in the case of Ecobank.
Under the RSF for the Bank of Africa short term loans represent 40 percent and overdrafts 50
percent. Ten percent constitute loans for longer than two years. The indicator ‘percentage of
SME loans to total loans’ was not measured.

97.     The provision of non-financial services, the BDS fund did not get off the ground. STEP
for micro-entrepreneurs was implemented and STEP’s participating firms increased operating
profits by 60 percent compared to a control group which increased operating profit by 40
percent. Neither the STEP program nor the RSF did evaluate the level of investment for
beneficiary firms.

98.     The improvement in the Doing Business indicators resulted in Mali ranking in Doing
Business 2013 151 out of 185, below the Sub-Sahara African average rank of 140, yet ahead in
the OHADA region. The Doing Business 2013 reports that to register a business in Mali it takes
four procedures, eight days, and costs 86.2 percent of per capita income.39 The baseline at project
start was 13 procedures and 42 days to register a business.

99.     Furthermore, Mali improved its distance to the frontier in all nine doing business
indicators. The distance to frontier measure shows how far each economy is from the best
performance achieved by any economy since 2005 on each indicator in nine Doing Business
indicator sets. 40 The results show that the pace of change varied across the areas measured.


39
  World Bank (2013), Doing Business Mali 2013.
40
  “Comparing the measure for an economy at two points in time allows users to assess how much the economy‘s regulatory
environment as measured by Doing Business has changed over time—how far it has moved toward (or away from) the most
efficient practices and strongest regulations in areas covered by Doing Business.? In: Doing Business Mali 2013.


                                                            22
Reforms were introduced for the indicators ‘registering a business’, ‘dealing with construction
permits’, ‘getting credit’ and ‘resolving insolvency’. In registering a business, Mali is relatively
close to the frontier in dealing with construction permits and relatively far from it in protecting
investors and solving insolvency (see Figure 6).

                Figure 6: Mali has made improvements in the areas measured by Doing Business
                                      by reducing its distance to frontier




                          Source: World Bank (2012b), Economy Profile Mali, Doing Business 2013



Causal links between outcome of the original development objectives and outputs

100. The telecom project intervention contributed greatly to the improvement in the telecom
sector. The project provided technical assistance that supported the privatization of the national
telecom company SOTELMA and its cellular company, Malitel. The project’s support to the
telecom regulatory agency CRT contributed greatly to regulating a liberalized sector. Introducing
even greater competition after the privatization, CRT launched the licensing for the third telecom
operator and awarded the license in January 2012.41 SOTELMA’s privatization is considered a
success story in Sub-Saharan Africa.

101. The results in the tourism and the artisan sector cannot be fully attributed to the project.
The support to the sector through assistance to OMATHO was not comprehensive and the
promotional activities were poorly executed and not designed to be sustainable. The drop in
tourism around 2009 was outside the control of the project and had its causes in a global
economic downturn and the worsening security situation in the northern parts of Mali. 42 Yet


41
 The third telecom license is currently in limbo as the local partner defaulted on the license fee.
42
 In March 2012, a coup d’état occurred and in January 2013 a French and international military force pushed back the militants
who approached the south of Mali.


                                                             23
many more activities planned for this component could have been achieved such as the
rehabilitation of the cultural sites in Timbuktu and Mopti. The intended outcome i.e. the
continuous upkeep of the tourism sites was not achieved. On the other side, considering the
destruction of some cultural sites by the militants in Timbuktu in January 2013, including the
Ahmed Baba Center housing millennia old manuscripts any rehabilitation financed by the project
might have been in vain.43

102. The intended outcome, to be measured by the increase in number of tourists, was partially
attributable to project activities. In the first years of implementation, the project sponsored a
series of diverse promotional activities. However, an important ongoing promotional tool,
OMATHO’s website which was funded under the project is underdeveloped, not updated,
unattractive to tourists, as well as difficult to find when searching the Internet for “tourism in
Mali?. One would have expected the project to fund the update of the OMATHO or other
Government tourism websites as an easy to implement activity.

103. The increase in artisan exports can only be partially attributed to the project as the
program did not work directly with artisans but with the National Center of Artisans. The
renovation work in the National Artisan Center was completed only late in the project. The
marketing strategy activity was not implemented due to the structure of the proposed contract as
a two year assignment for an individual consultant, a proposition which was not attractive to
many experts. The output for the National Artisan Center, the Tissuthek, was partially of poor
quality. The rehabilitation of the building had quality issues. The room where the project
financed hand looms were supposed to be housed and where demonstrations and training are
supposed to be held are at this moment not fully useable due to a leaking roof. In addition to the
structural problems, the capacities of the Artisan Center seem to be rather weak, which
contributes to a lack of outcome. There does not seem to have been promotion activities for the
new facilities with the consequence that the wider artisan community seems to be unaware of the
possibility to use the hand looms or the conference rooms. The ICR mission was also not able to
retrieve a report of the offering of structured courses for the artisans.

104. The mining component activities were only loosely linked to mining investments. The
component with planned cost estimates of about US$9 million was extensive and dispersed over
many activities. Despite difficulties in implementation important activities have been
undertaken: capacity building on the use of geoscientist data (Geoter), a diagnostic study on
artisanal mining, an IETI consultancy and the procurement for the equipment for the laboratory
and the archives in the National Department for Geology and Mines (DNGM). In addition,
renovation works for the documentation center were performed, equipment supplied to the
national women mining association in Mali, and the guidelines developed for the environmental
safeguards. Lastly, the project financed the participation in International Mining Conferences.
On August 28, 2011, Mali completed the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)
validation process.44



43
   BCC News, Mali conflict: Timbuktu manuscripts destroyed, January 2013.
44
   It completed the 2006 audit of payments made by the industry and revenues received by the government in December 2009.
The report for 2009 was completed in December 2011. Payments made by mining companies increased from CFAF 120.3 billion
in 2006 to CFAF 171.3 billion in 2009. In 2006, the government received 3.8 percent less than declared by mining companies,


                                                            24
105. The STEP program outcome is directly correlated to the project’s activities. STEP
assisted micro-enterprises in accounting, book-keeping and marketing through individual
consulting and group training. In addition, sixty advisors have been trained and nine local offices
opened in various urban centers. During the project, more than 11,200 microenterprises have
been contacted among which it is estimated that at least 1,284 were supported by the STEP
program for a period of at least three months. The micro enterprises supported by the program
experienced a better performance than the microenterprises without program, according to the
impact study; the average annual operating profit grew by 60 percent compared to 40 percent in
the control group.

106. The SME partial credit guarantee was partially successful. 306 firms benefitted from the
credit program for loans from 1-5 years for a total of US$12.24 million with an average credit of
US$40,000 in the case of Bank of Africa, eight firms with an average loan of US$200,000 in the
case of Ecobank. The input costs to establish this SME lending tool was rather expensive with
technical assistance consultancies costing US$1.5 million. An impact study was not performed.

107. The airport sub-component was taken over by MCC, and was started in 2007 and was no
longer covered by the project. The construction of the new passenger terminal must have
suffered delays as by 2012 the new passenger terminal was only 70 percent complete. In
November 2007, MCC after it had signed its compact with the Government of Mali rehabilitated
and extended the runway and ancillary facilities for a planned US$181 million. The MCC also
built 70 percent of a new terminal, and closed its compact formally in December 2012, due to the
coup situation in Mali.

Revised Project Development Objectives

108. As many activities stayed the same, the results of the components which remained the
same were discussed in the section above.

109. The API-Mali one-stop-shop for business registration and investment was successful in
that it simplified and regrouped a series of administrative processes under the roof of API-Mali
and encouraged and facilitated private sector investment. Business registrations increased from
1,700 in 2009 to 4,600 in 2010 and 5,300 in 2011 (see Figure 7).45 Other improvements in the
business environment were made, such as an improved inspection regime for the construction
permits, reduction in fees to register a transfer of property, the decrease of procedures to enforce
a contract, and the enactment of legislation related to enforcing a contract by strengthening
investors’ protection. The project’s support to the investment promotion function in the
Investment Promotion Agency (API-Mali) contributed to investment of US$25 million according
to an IFC survey.

110. The improvement in the Doing Business indicators can only partially be credited to the
project. The project financed the reconstruction of API housing now the one-stop-shop for



and, curiously, 2.5 percent more in 2009. The reports are available on Mali’s EITI secretariat: www.itie.mines.gouv.ml. In:
World Bank (2012), Implementation Completion and Results Report, PRSC 3-5.
45
   IFC (2012), Back-to-Office report, results validation mission for project completion, Mali investment climate reform program
– Phase 2, December 3-6, 2012.


                                                              25
business registration and investment, and since 2009 the salary of the three Directors (General
Manager, Director for Strategy, and Director for the one-stop-shop). It also financed some
equipment for the Investment Climate Reform Unit (CTRCA). Mali's amendments to its Civil
Procedure Code improved the contract enforcement procedures by allowing summons to be
served upon filing the plaint at the competent court without intervention of the judge, and
introducing case time limits. RCCM’s own statistics show that the number of judgments
increased from 2005 to 2012 by 32 percent. The length of time to come to a judgment improved
by 10 percent between 2008 and 2009.

111. The rehabilitation of buildings for the Commercial Court, including the RCCM, API and
CNAC got implemented and completed. RCCM and API infrastructure are adjusted to the needs
of clients and staff. The rehabilitation of the Tissuthek however was performed with some
quality defects. This may have negative effects on the success of the activities undertaken for the
Tissuthek, such as being a demonstration and training site for traditional weaving.

112. The submission to Parliament of a new Investment Code shifted emphasis from
administering incentives to assuring investors’ rights and obligations. The new code was only
adopted in 2012 and results of the new procedures are not yet accounted for.

                                           Figure 7: Positive development of intermediary indicators

                                                                                                      Number of approved investments 
                                                                                                         under investment code
                                                                                                                                        9            7
                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                               17             8
                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                            28                               30
                                                                                                9                 10
                                                                                                        217                          200      219
                                                                                                                           164                              158
                                                                                               132               114



                                                                                               2006     2007    2008       2009      2010     2011       2012 (up to
                                                                                                                                                           30/09)

                                                                                                               Nationals   Foreign   Mixtes




                Time to approve investment for  
                          incentives
       100
        80
        60
        40
        20
        0
             2006         2007         2008     2009       2010       2011    2012 (up
                                                                              to 30/09)

                    Registrations (days)
                    Decisions (days)
                    approval of project according to the Investment code (days)




                                           Source: API Mali, 2012, World Bank (2012), Doing Business 2013




                                                                                          26
3.3      Efficiency

113.     Rating: negligible.

114. At appraisal, an economic analysis was prepared based on a number of assumptions
which estimated an economic rate of return of 26.1 percent. During the implementation phase, no
data was collected in order to validate/revise these assumptions and consequently to feed into the
model during the ex-post cost-benefit analysis. Having said this, some of the assumptions made
in the economic analysis were too optimistic. For instance, for the access to finance component
the assumption was that if a firm received a loan, its output would grow at a rate of five times the
credit it received.

115. The economic analysis was based on the infrastructure activities with a Bank financed
cost of US$24.5 million. This planned infrastructure for the Bamako Airport and the industrial
zone at the airport were not implemented. The airport infrastructure was dropped when the
project was restructured. The industrial zone stayed in the restructured project, yet was equally
not implemented. Rehabilitation works in tourist sites did not materialize; procurement of
different equipment was dropped, adding to the limited financing of the project.

116. Due to difficulties faced in implementing infrastructure works, the project focused mainly
on capacity building and provision of technical assistance. This type of activities does not lend
itself to an economic and financial analysis. The difficulty could have been mitigated by some
impact studies but only one impact study for STEP has been carried out. Due to these limitations,
an economic and financial analysis has not been undertaken at ICR stage.

117. Therefore, some elements are presented to assess and justify the rating for the project
efficiency. The project achieved concrete results for API-Mali, RCCM, the doing business
indicator improvements, the high teledensity and ICT cost reductions all of which suggest a good
return of investment for theses specific activities. API-Mali contributed to an increase of new
business registrations from 1,700 enterprises in 2009, to 4,600 in 2010 and 5,300 in 2011. Mali’s
doing business ranking improved by several steps and is considered OHADA’s frontrunner.
SOTELMA/Malitel’s market share grew from 19 percent in December 2009 to 36 percent in
December 2010. In addition, teledensity grew from 6 percent in 2005 to 68 percent in 2011.

118. Under the STEP program with costs of US$1.2 million, 1,234 SMEs benefited.
According to an impact study, that included 427 beneficiaries and 100 control group firms, the
operating profits of the SME supported by the program for at least three months grew by 60
percent, whereas the control group grew by 40 percent.46

119. The project disbursed just below 50 percent (30 percent against 32 percent for the period
before and after restructuring) over a six and half years, the remainder was cancelled. The reason
of the low disbursements are to be found in the lack of implementation of the US$24 million
infrastructure component (airport and industrial zone components after restructuring), the lack of



46
   Based on the annual operating profit provided by the impact study, a quick calculation shows that the IRR could be quite high
(at least 75 percent).


                                                               27
implementation of the BDS component, the rehabilitation of the tourism sites and of some large
scale procurements.

120. The project did not effectively leverage the development partner resources. None of the
activities during the project resulted in a fruitful coordination with other donors. For instance,
AFD and EU had worked with the World Bank team in designing the BDS matching grant fund
which ultimately was not launched.

121. Cost effectiveness of the PCU is low. The costs for the PCU were 4.4 million for a
disbursement of US$25 million. These PCU costs do not include the coverage of two years
project coordinator’s salary (2009-2011) and the PCU staff’s contribution to social security
which were paid by Government funds. Equally to add would be the vehicles for 11 focal points.
These costs can be estimated respectively at US$100,000 for salary and social security and about
US$0.5 million for vehicles, insurance and gas. Taking the PCU costs only, over the project
period, the PCU's planned budget was US$5.82 million (6.4 percent of the project costs).
Ultimately, the total disbursement for PCU reached US$4.3 million (a disbursement of 73.9
percent of the PCU planned budget and 15.4 percent of total disbursement). This points to a low
cost effectiveness. Comparator project management costs for the Mozambique Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Project US$2.5 million (US$9.21 million or 92 percent disbursed). The
Mozambique project achieved its development objective with a moderately satisfactory rating.
Also this comparison points to a low cost effectiveness of the Mali Growth project.

122. Overall, given the extent that the project did not implement a number of activities, most
importantly the infrastructure development, considering the cancellation of more than 50 percent
of the credit and grant even after an extension to the closing date and the cost efficiency of the of
the PCU, the project efficiency was negligible.

3.4       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

123.      Rating: unsatisfactory.

124. Based on a weighted average of disbursement before and after the restructuring, overall
the project is rated unsatisfactory.

                                           Table 1: Project Ratings

                                                                      Restructured
                    Description              Original Activities                          Overall
                                                                       Activities
       Objective*                              Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
       Rating value*                                 2                      2
       Weight (% disbursed before/ after
                                                    57%                   43%              100%
       restructuring)**
       Weighted value                               1.14                  0.86               2.0
       Overall rating                                                                  Unsatisfactory

125. Measured by the PDO indicators – original and after restructuring – the project is to be
rated unsatisfactory. The indicator “time to approve investments? did decrease, from 45 days to
30 days, still short of the target by 15 days. The PDO indicator linked to the BDS sub-component


                                                     28
(ESSF) - “500 long-term jobs created by ESSF? - was not achieved as the ESSF did not get off
the ground. And, the indicator “Bank credit to SME increased 30 percent of total loans and
advances? was only partially achieved as the program was only implemented by two banks.

126. Measured by the intermediary indicators the picture is somewhat more nuanced. Some
intermediary indicators were fully met, such as: (i) the number of increased business registrations
at the one-stop-shop for business registration; (ii) teledensity; (iii) the increased tourists’ arrivals
by end 2011 (see Figure 3); (iv) the elimination of export taxes for artisanal products; and (v) the
reduction of import-export licenses fees.

127. Overall however, the outcome was of unsatisfactory due to negligible efficiency,
negligible relevance of objectives, design and implementation and unsatisfactory outcome.

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

128. There was no measurable poverty impact. In terms of gender aspects, the project assisted
the Association of Women Miners (AFEMINE) with materials and equipment. Women
entrepreneurs were also supported through the STEP program although there were no targets set.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

129. The project strengthened the following institutions: API Mali, Airports of Mali, the
Association of Women Miners, the focal point unit for business reforms, CRT, the Ministry of
Mines, the Ministry of Industry and SME, the National Center for Artisans, OMATHO, STEP as
well as the umbrella organization of Malian microfinance institutions (CCS/SFD). The project
also built capacity of the different focal points in the respective ministries and participating
agencies, as well as the project coordination unit. The last project coordinator had been a public
servant and was assigned to this post.

130. A high level of support was given to API Mali with a clear result that API is now
operating a one-stop-shop for business registration. API Mali has also implemented an unique
company identification number (NINA) generated at company registration.

131. Through rehabilitation of office buildings, the project also contributed to improvement in
institutional performance. Provision of TA (especially through training of trainers like under
STEP) as launched innovation in service delivery for micro-firms. The change in culture to seek
or receive support for enterprise management is an institutional strengthening legacy that the
project left. A number of studies supported through the project and formulation of important
business practices (including coding artisanal products) are important institutional arrangement.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

132.   Rating: high.

133. The current political and security situation in Mali poses a risk to the achievements of the
project, in terms of foreign and domestic investments in industrial, mining, agro-business and
services sectors, especially in the northern parts of Mali.



                                                  29
134. The computerization of the Commercial Court and RCCM is at risk due to lack of
accompanying measures by the World Bank or IFC and the lack of financing of the second
phase, i.e. the software development and link to the NINA database. The upgrading of the
Commercial Court premises was a good step to serve its customers and increase efficiency. The
activities to strengthen sectors are prone to different risks.

135. The risk to financial sustainability across the institutions supported varies. Financial
sustainability is guaranteed for SOTELMA, CRT, OMATHO, the Investment Climate Reform
Unit, and the Ministries as well as the Bank of Africa. CRT is financed from fees and is
financially self-sustainable. A higher risk of financial sustainability exists for the STEP program
that has not yet identified another source of financing. Since project closing, the Government
mobilized financial support for the API management at the level that the project financed. With
this financing and skills in place, the sustainability of the achievement of API, especially its one-
stop-shop for business registration is secured.

136. The risk to technical sustainability across the institutions supported varies, too. Technical
sustainability is assured for the privatized SOTELMA, the Bank of Africa, CRT, API, the focal
point for business reforms, the Ministry of Mining, the Ministry of Finance, the Airports of Mali
and OMATHO. The Ministry of Mining is likely to sustain its archiving equipment and the tools
acquired. The institutional strengthening of OMATHO is likely to last, yet the familiarization
with new technologies, Internet tourism marketing and statistics should have been further
strengthened during with project activities. Towards the end of the project a project financed
consultant carried out an institutional audit of OMATHO and a new Director was nominated.

137. The umbrella micro finance organization (CCS/SFD) and the National Center for
Artisans are likely to continue to operate with a low level of technical sustainability. Both
institutions received respectively relatively small amounts of assistance (US$200,000 and
US$700,000 respectively). The national center for artisans seems weak and is unlikely to
optimize the use of the project funded infrastructure, such as the Tissuthek demonstration site,
for the benefit of a wide range of artisans or their apprentices.

138. The STEP program will not continue in the form supported by the project, yet a subset of
the STEP consultants established themselves in consulting companies. The development of the
SME department in the Bank of Africa and Ecobank will likely continue to have a positive effect
on lending for SMEs.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

139.   Rating: unsatisfactory.

140. The quality of documents and analysis were mixed. The PAD was well written, yet it had
important inconsistencies with the DFA, especially in terms of the PDO and of the intermediary
indicators. The PDO indicators are not directly linked to the activities of the different
components.


                                                 30
141. The project design was complex, and additionally the design of the sub-components
(BDS, financial services, airport, industrial zone, mining, ICT and tourism infrastructure) was
not based on relevant analytical work.

142. Reviews at entry, at restructuring and realism. This project was not subjected to a
quality enhancement review despite its high level of complexity. The project considered the
financial management risk as moderate based on a Country Financial Accountability Framework
from 2002,47 which proofed to be unrealistic given the problems with using counterpart funds for
ineligible expenditures, the high discrepancies of disbursement figures between the
Administration director and the project accountant and several audit reports that were issued with
qualifications. However, the PAD noted the need for an adequate number of financial
management staff and one procurement specialist. Recommended procurement clinics did not
seem to have taken place.48

(b)        Quality of Supervision

143.       The rating of quality of supervision is rated unsatisfactory.

144. Missions. Overall, Bank mission were not consistent, did not include all relevant
specialists in the team, frequently changed team composition and failed to address project
implementation issues. All four TTLs except the last one were located in Washington.
Supervision done before 2008 are evaluated as unsatisfactory by this ICR, as only one Aide
memoire for the October 2005 single person (the TTL) mission can be found. No Aide memoires
for missions by the TTL for FY 2007 could be located. Aide memoires for telecom and mining
components were found. The supervision team included an FPD staff and a Lead Financial
Sector Development specialist located in the Mali World Bank office The missions should have
assisted in sorting out technical issues yet many issues remained unresolved. In addition, severe
financial and procurement problems surfaced at MTR in March 2009. The supervision of
telecom and mining was outsourced to the respective technical experts who went on missions
separately. In the fiscal years 2006 and 2007 only one implementation support mission led by the
TTL took place. To prepare for MTR numerous and intensive missions took place in 2008. These
missions unearthed fiduciary issues, caught up on a backlog of no-objections and attempted to
put the issue with MCC for the airport and industrial zone sub-components in order. The
February 2008, the MTR and the July 2010 missions comprised ten and more members (staff and
consultants). In 2010 only one supervision mission took place followed by another period of
intensive, yet smaller missions.

145. Complexity, team composition and responsibilities. Many World Bank experts,
including a number of consultants were involved in the supervision of sub-components. Except
for the supervision of the mining and the telecom sub-component, there was a frequent change of
technical experts in the team. This applied to the airport component, the tourism and artisan
component, the BDS and the financial sector component. The staff supervising the BDS
component remained constant from 2005-2008, yet after restructuring changed in every mission.
The staff that was assigned to design and follow the BDS component after project restructuring


47
     World Bank (2005a), PAD, page 69.
48
     World Bank (2005a), PAD, page 76.


                                                    31
had little expertise in the area of BDS and were junior staff with rather limited experience, such
as a JPA and later a junior consultant. Feedback from the Government during the ICR mission
and in the video-conference on the draft ICR revealed that the Government was critical about
this delegation of responsibilities to rather junior staff.

146. The implementing agencies reported that they directly interacted with World Bank
consultants in their role as experts for important components, such as the airport and tourism and
that delays in World Bank responses were frequent. This delegation of the supervision to
consultants is rather uncommon. Also, the coordination with consultants made mission planning
and follow-up on procurement matters difficult. Furthermore, there was also no engineer on the
World Bank team except the October 2005 mission, who could have supervised building
rehabilitation work.

147. The World Bank teams after 2010 supervised the project with a focus on improving the
poor quality of TOR that the PCU sent to the Bank for no-objection. This slowed down
procurement yet was a necessary step. In the latter part of the project (2010-2011), many of the
procurement supervision function seemed to have been carried out by team members and not
directly the TTL.

148. Cooperation with IFC and FIAS. Starting in 2008, the project cooperated with the IFC
in the (i) Doing Business reforms, especially the creation of the one-stop-shop for business
creation and investment at API-Mali; (ii) the modernization of the RCCM; (iii) the investment
code and the regulation for the industrial zone; and (iv) the SRF for SMEs. The IFC was
considered for the transaction advisors for the PPP for the Bamako airport yet this option was
later abandoned. The cooperation for the one-stop-shop and the investment code was
successfully implemented. The technical work of IFC/FIAS on the investment code was the basis
for the reform of the investment code. The engagement of the FIAS team was a contribution to
the project as the FIAS team, despite different technical proposals by the Government, was able
to sustain the policy dialogue. In that way, the investment code was implemented according to
good international practice. The modernization of RCCM was partially implemented with project
financing. IFC was planning to pay the software design consultant for RCCM applications,
which was dropped due to the early closing of the project. The cooperation on the partial risk
guarantee had been more challenging as numerous changes of IFC supervisory staff occurred, no
common mission took place and reports were at times not shared. Where opinions differed
between the Bank and the IFC was IFCs assistance on the regulatory framework for the special
economic zones. IFC’s preference for the regulation for the industrial zone to be put in place ex
ante held up any investment for the industrial zone. Experiences in other countries in Africa
show that IFC’s insistence on regulation before any investments was a prudent one.49

149. Realism and candor. The ratings in the World Bank’s Implementation Status Report
were unrealistic in the first three years of the project. After its first year, the project was rated
moderately satisfactory and stayed in the same rating for two years. At the same time, financial
management and procurement were rated satisfactory. Only in 2008 was the project downgraded
for its achieving development objectives and implementation progress to moderately


49
     See World Bank (2010a), Implementation Completion and Results Report, Gambia Gateway project, June 29, 2010.


                                                             32
unsatisfactory as well as its performance in financial management, procurement and monitoring
and evaluation.

150. Mid-Term Review. The MTR was planned for end 2007, yet took place only in March
2009. The preparation for the MTR was done through four missions in 2008. The main reason
was the holdup of the infrastructure for the Bamako airport and the industrial zone at the airport
sub-component. The MTR honed in on the financial management challenges and the monitoring
of indicators. The MTR however did not mention the issue of the restructuring of the financial
sector sub-component, i.e., the Aide Memoire does not explain why the originally planned three
financial facilities had not been implemented. The reason for the inclusion of the privatization of
the BIM and restructuring of the BHM bank was equally not explained.

151. Restructuring. Restructuring took place in June 2009. Restructuring would have been
called for at an earlier time when issues of low disbursement, of delays at the airport and
industrial zone infrastructure had developed as well as when the complexity and delays in other
sub-components had slowed down implementation. The result of the 2009 restructuring, four
years after project start, was an equally complex project with nine components. Despite its many
delays and problems in cooperating with MCC, the airport component still remained in the
project with the financing of a PPP arrangement for the airport and the industrial zone. This is
difficult to understand when the airport authority was opposed to a PPP scheme as was its line
ministry. Consequently, the PPP did not materialize. In addition, the PDO indicator linked to the
financial sector development sub-component was overambitious and unrealistic (SME lending
increases to 30 percent of total loans and advances by project end). The financial sector
component was made even more complicated after restructuring adding Central Bank activities
such as payment systems, supervising micro finance institutions and loan recovery reforms. The
CPI Secretariat was also kept in the project despite its failure/inactivity between 2008 and 2011.

152. QAG recommendations were not fully followed. A QAG review from June 2008 made
seven critical recommendations of which three were followed and four ignored; the
recommendations not followed were to simplify the project, to reconsider the BSD component,
to build capacity in the PCU and to put effort into designing and implementing a high-quality
monitoring and evaluation system.

153. Monitoring and evaluation. The MTR review flagged the lack of an M&E specialist in
the PCU who was consequently hired in 2009. Yet the M&E system’s performance was not
monitored and the project ended up with indicators that are difficult to measure.

154. Financial management. The auditors identified weaknesses in financial management
and issued qualified opinions for the project audits 2005, 2006, 2007. Yet the problems in
accounting seemed to have continued with discrepancies at the time of MTR between accounting
figures of the Director for Administration and the accountant. The MTR initiated an in-depth
financial management review for the counterpart funds and the investment promotion
expenditure. At the ICR stage, it was difficult to account for disbursements up to the time of
project restructuring and after project restructuring as the PCU did not establish accounting
figures up to and from the official restructuring date. The figure assembled by the ICR team from
figures provided by the PCU differed by US$2 million from the disbursement figures in client
connection.


                                                33
155. Procurement. Procurement issues between the bank and the government were frequently
not solved, and activities consequently were not implemented. Capacity training in procurement
could have unblocked the implementation of several large activities as during project
implementation several large contracts did not go forward due to disagreements either between
PCU and line Ministries, or between PCU and World Bank. It seems that the Bank TTLs
delegated responsibility of procurement processes to team members. At the beginning of the
project up to 2010, this had the consequence of often long delays or non-resolution of stalled
situation. After 2010, issues seemed to have been solved and were moving more smoothly. On
the other hand, the recruitment of an international procurement advisor into the PCU would have
been advisable to ensure quality of TOR, to unblock many of the contentious procurement issues
and to find solutions. An in-depth procurement audit was performed and rated procurement
moderately satisfactory.

156. The July 2011 decision to close the project six months before its closing date was a
pro-active action. The decision to close the project on March 30, 2012 was taken in agreement
between the World Bank and the Government. Considering the weak implementation trend of the
project and the limited measurable direct impact it was having on the private sector development
in Mali, the decision to close could allow to quickly reengage with the private sector in a new
project with a more simple institutional design and with greater focus on the client needs and
expectation. With this rationale the Government and the World Bank easily agreed on the early
project closing. A workshop was organized in January 2012 to launch the preparation of the
subsequent project. The decision was considered also as a proactive action with regards to the
World Bank portfolio in Mali.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

157.     Rating: unsatisfactory.

158. Overall all Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory due to the number of weaknesses it
showed, the main one being its weakness to simplify project design both during preparation and
supervision. Delegation of authority to and lack of continuity of team members also contributed
to limitation in resolving project implementation issues.

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a)      Government Performance

159.     Rating: unsatisfactory.

160. The project experienced four changes of Ministers in the Ministry of Investment
Promotion and SME, the ministry responsible for the project.50 The Project Steering Committee
was chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Investment Promotion and SME and
charged with supervising the project. According to the MTR March 2009 and the QAG review



50
  In 2008 the Ministry was renamed to Ministry of Economy, Industry and Commerce, and a new Minister appointed. This
minister stayed only for a few months. In 2011 the Ministry was again renamed to Ministry of Industry and Commerce.


                                                           34
the Steering Committee met only a few times. A technical committee for the airport and
industrial zone was set up by decree, yet was not functional. 51

161. The decentralized structure ensured that specialists were in charge of the respective sector
activities, yet coordination issues arose. It was reported that the many different beneficiary
ministries influenced the PCU to disburse faster. The many focal points were not held together
by a common structure. The MTR Aide Memoire from March 2009 noted that none of the focal
points had reports on activities financed by the project for his/her sector. The ICR mission
noticed that very little useable and verifiable data and no common reporting structure existed.

162. The Investment Climate Unit, the Cellule Technique du Cadre des Affaires, CTRCA,
focal point for the investment climate component was only put in place in 2007, two years after
project start. Once established this unit became a strong unit working with both IFC and World
Bank on several Doing Business indicators and other reforms. In 2009, CTRCA also assumed the
secretariat for the public-private committee to follow up on public private reforms. In this
function CTRCA is in charge of implementing the multi-annual plan for investment climate
reforms for 2012-2015.

163. Some parts of critical reforms were paid for by counterpart funds. This included the first
revision of the investment code, the later operationalization of the one-stop-shop for business
creation, and the revision for the company code and the civil procedures code.

(b)      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

164.     Rating: moderately unsatisfactory.

165. The PCU was led by a project coordinator and consisted of a small team who struggled to
move the project forward. Three project coordinators served during the length of the project. In
2007, the first project coordinator’s services were relinquished. The acting project coordinator
was in place in early 2008. At MTR in March 2009, there was no official project coordinator in
place despite several requests by the World Bank. The project consisted then of a project
coordinator, two procurement specialists, a Director for Administrative and Financial Services,
an accountant, an M&E specialist, a legal specialist and an expert for Banking and Finance. On a
consultant basis a civil engineer had been hired to supervise the works. Despite this well paid
team in the PCU, many problems persisted.

166. The project unit showed severe weaknesses in financial management, in monitoring and
evaluation and in its ability to smooth out differences with the World Bank and the focal points
and implementation agencies. The MTR showed discrepancies of several hundreds of thousands
of dollars in actual disbursement figures between the Director for Administration and the
accountant. There were even higher discrepancies in disbursement figures put together by the
TTL at MTR. The reconciliation at ICR stage of figures provided by the project and the client
connection figures showed equally high discrepancies (up to US$2 million). The project had



51
  Government of Mali (2005), Decree No 05- 1756 from 15 July, 2005 of the Ministry for the Promotion of Investment and
Small and Medium Enterprises.


                                                            35
furthermore about US$100,000 ineligible expenditures under the PPF which were reimbursed to
the World Bank.

167. Weekly meetings were introduced after project restructuring to discuss and solve
common and sector individual bottlenecks, yet many issues remained unsolved. It seems that the
project management unit could have played more of a role as convener, yet the focal points were
generally not interested to report to a unit outside their reporting lines. Quality of procurement
documents delivered to the PCU was low, quality control at the PCU also seems to have lagged
rigor, both of which caused much back and forth between the Bank and the PCU. The PCU’s
communication with the Bank was not smooth, and improved considerable after restructuring yet
suffered from many delays especially on the procurement of highly technical activities.

168. The monitoring and evaluation position at the PCU was not filled in the first four years of
the project. After hiring an M&E specialist following the MTR in March 2009, the monitoring
improved. Yet the World Bank rated monitoring and evaluation moderately satisfactory, and
starting in June 2011 moderately unsatisfactory until the end of the project. At MTR a second
procurement officer was hired. The PCU’s M&E system was made no attempts to find proxy
indicators when the validity of some of the indicators were called into question, such as the SME
lending indicator delivered by the BCEAO.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

169.   Rating: unsatisfactory.

170. Overall the Borrower’s performance is rated unsatisfactory due to several factors: (i) the
lack of continuous leadership; (ii) coordination issues between the PCU and ministries; (iii) the
lack of donor coordination (for the airport component); (iii) weak institutional coordination; (iv)
serious fiduciary problems; and (v) no viable and enforced results framework (monitoring and
evaluation) for almost all components. All these factors contributed to the low disbursement rate,
the low execution rate, and the relatively weak results.

6.     Lessons Learned

Regarding overall project

171. The Mali Growth project was too complex and should have been simplified at the design
and the restructuring stage. Even strong economic performance at the time of project preparation
does not justify a complex project. In the case of Mali, lack of capacity will require adapting a
more gradual development approach. The designed activities were ranging from large and small
construction, privatization to training micro-entrepreneurs. The wide scope of project activities
led to a situation whereby institutional coordination was fragmented and at times implementation
was captured by sectoral interests.

172.   Restructuring and MTR are important opportunities to review and revise project design.

173. Strong monitoring and evaluation system is critical to drive and account for results.
Specialists on the World Bank and Government side need to design and supervise
implementation of any monitoring and evaluation system. In addition to design also the


                                                36
appropriate budget had to be allocated for this task. The STEP program was a program that from
its start had a strong monitoring and evaluation system. The STEP program showed that results
can be monitored in all the six years of its implementation. Equally, IFC monitored the RSF
program for SMEs through Bank of Africa on a monthly basis.

174. Clinics on procurement and on financial management should be held at any moment in
the project, when issues arise. Lack of knowledge of procurement rules seemed to have been a
problem on the side of focal points yet also World Bank team members in the case of the tourism
infrastructure rehabilitation. World Bank team members could have been seeking advice from
senior staff in safeguards and procurement in the World Bank, and this could have helped to
unblock the tourism infrastructure activity in the project.

On specific components

175. In cases where the private sector clearly can deliver, it is better to contract and outsource
a given activity thereby reducing the burden on the PCU and other participating institutions. For
instance, the project could have financed the private sector, on an output-based basis for training
for youth and women artisans, and partial subsidies for equipment, marketing and design advice
for the young and women artisans once they would have graduated from the practical training.

176. Early restructuring and a cancellation of IDA funds is necessary when the project shows
signs of lack of progress. In this case, the fact that two large infrastructure activities were not
going through as planned, was a good sign to reassess the commitment level. Once discussions
with government and MCC were drawn out for over two years, IDA resources for this
component should have been canceled or reallocated.

177. Project implementation was supported through the World Bank’s medium-term economic
policy dialogue and budget support which worked well. Three policy reforms were included as
prior actions and/or triggers into World Bank budget support operations and at times with delays
were completed: (i) the appointment of Board of CRT as prior action for PRSC 3 (June 2009),
(ii) submission to Parliament of a revised investment code as prior action for PRSC 5 (April
2011);52 and (iii) the completion of validation steps and submission of a validation request to the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Secretariat as trigger for PRSC 5.53 Client
feedback at ICR stage confirmed that this was an effective mechanism to bring about reform.
This applied to the telecom reform and the investment code.

178. When different parts of the World Bank Group work together, the probability of
achieving the objectives improves. World Bank and IFC cooperation was successful in
implementing the reforms of API-Mali, API one-stop-shop, doing business reforms, RCCM
reform, RSF, and the investment code.




52
   The revision and submission to Parliament was a trigger for PRSP 4, got delayed and became a prior action for PRSC 5.
53
   In the mining sector, an audit report of mineral taxation was expected to be completed before PRSC 3. The completion of all
validation steps and submission of a validation request to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Secretariat was
a trigger for PRSC 4. It was not met on time, however, it became a prior action for PRSC 5.


                                                                37
179. A more proactive and solution-oriented approach should be pursued when faced with an
implementation issue. The Bank missed the opportunity to use World Bank procurement
guidelines’ provisions for community involvement in works. This was a missed opportunity,
especially in light the Bank’s policy on physical cultural resources (OP 4.11) giving guidelines
on the involvement of local communities. The OP 4.11 was mistakenly not included in the PAD,
nor was it included in the restructuring paper. Yet the team should have applied a flexible
approach during project implementation even in the absence of the application of the physical
cultural resource policy. A more proactive and solution oriented approach could have allowed
local communities to rehabilitate and/or participate in the rehabilitation of the tourism sites, as
the government had requested.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

180.   The issues raised by the Borrowers ICR are dealt with in the main text.

(b)    Other partners and stakeholders

181. During meetings at ICR stage, representatives from the private sector voiced that the
private sector had not been sufficiently consulted during project planning, restructuring and
implementation. The private sector had expected a more direct support from the project.

182. The Bank is committed to work with the private sector of all sizes and its representatives.
The documents at MTR do not indicate consultations with the private sector. Documents for
project preparation are scarce. Any new initiative for the private sector will collaborate with the
respective private sector in designing appropriate and flexible, results-oriented and measurable
activities.




                                                38
                                  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                                                 Actual /
                                                              Actual/latest       Latest
                                Appraisal                                                                   Percentage
                                               Estimate at        before        estimates     Percentage
                                Amount                                                                           of
         Component                            restructuring   restructuring       after           of
                                 (USD)                                                                     restructured
                                                June 2009      (June 2005-    restructuring    appraisal
                                (million)                                                                    estimate
                                                                June 2009)     (June 2009-
                                                                              March 2012)
1: Investment Climate and          15.92                             10.60                        66.58
Institutional Strengthening
2: Infrastructure Support for      24.49                                 0                         0.00
Growth
3: Financial and                       8.83                           2.10                        23.78
Nonfinancial Services for
Innovation and
Development
4: Project Implementation,             3.02                           2.40                        79.47
Monitoring and Evaluation
                                   52.26                             15.10                        28.89
Contingencies                       2.75
Total                              55.01                             15.10                        27.45
Post Restructuring June 23, 2009
1: Investment Climate                                 4.42                            1.37                       30.99
2: Airports of Mali                                   0.53                            0.70                      132.55
3: Industrial Zone                                    4.95                            0.01                        0.10
4: Telecommunications                                 6.90                            0.80                       11.59
5: Tourism                                            1.96                            0.60                       30.68
6: Handicraft                                         1.73                            0.64                       36.91
7: Development of Financial                           6.81                            2.50                       36.69
Services
8: Enterprise Support                                 3.86                            0.66                       17.08
Services
9: Mining sector                                      5.90                            1.42                       24.06
10: Project Coordination                              2.85                            1.80                       63.15
Unit
Total Project Costs                                  39.91                                                        0.00
Total Financing Required                             39.91                           10.50                       30.29



                                    




                                                          39
Financing

                                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                     Type of                                     Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                          Estimate      Estimate
                                                   Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                                     (US$millions) (US$millions)
Borrower                                                                     10.03         1.74*            00
International Development Association
                                                                                19.50                8.09             41.49
(IDA) Credit
IDA Grant for Debt Vulnerable                                                   35.50              16.84              47.44
Total                                                                           65.03              26.67              41.87
 Sources: PAD data sheet; * World Bank (2009d), Note de synthèse de la revue des dépenses de contrepartie et des dépenses de
                              promotion de l’investissement pour la période 2006-2007-2008.




                                                            40
                                      Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Investment Climate

1.     Investment Code. In February 2012, the Government approved the new investment code
and issued in August 2013 the corresponding decree.54 Since 2008, the Bank had worked with
FIAS on elaborating this code.

2.      The project implemented a list of legal reforms to improve several doing business
indicators. In 2007, the business startup process was reformed -- a single company identification
number reduced the registration time. In 2009. Mali simplified the business start-up process by
creating a new one-stop shop making it possible to register a company with the registrar and tax
agency, apply for online publication and obtain a national identification number (NINA). In 2011
Mali made starting a business easier by adding to the services provided by the one-stop shop.
The Doing business 2013 reports that to register a business it takes four procedures, eight days,
and costs 86.2 percent of per capita income.55 The baseline at project start was 13 procedures and
42 days to register a business. The baseline for the costs was an absolute cost of US$557.56

3.     Operationalization of the database NINA (Numéro d’Identification National). The project
helped to establish the legislation and regulation for a unique company identification number
generated at company registration. The project also funded the establishment of the one-stop-
shop for business registration within API-Mali. Additionally, it was foreseen that the project
would finance the development and application software of the NINA database. Issues with the
no-objection for single source selection for Oracle software held up the implementation of the
database. Finally, the Government decided to fund the Oracle database with its own resources,
configuring the software to local circumstances and its maintenance.

4.      Investment Promotion Agency (API - Mali). In 2008, three API Directors were appointed
and financed by the project. The framework document of the first phase of the national
investment promotion strategy has been approved by the Minister of Industry, of Investment and
Commerce and by the private sector. The second phase of the national investment promotion
strategy was carried out with financing from IDA and IFC. The national investment promotion
strategy is expected to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for its adoption. The project also
funded three vehicles for the API Mali directors.

5.     Presidential Investor Council (CPI). The CPI had few meetings during the project
duration. In 2006, a public-private sector meeting took place in Paris and the third CPI meeting
was held in Bamako. The project funded the CPI coordinator for 2006-2008. Between 2008 and
July 2011, no CPI meeting took place. In Mach 2009, a mixed private/public committee to
follow Government reforms was formed with participation of ministerial departments and



54
   Government of Mali (2012a), Law Nr. 2012-016 from 27 February 2012, and the Decree Nr. 2012-475/P-RM from 20 August
2012.
55
   World Bank (2013), Doing Business Mali 2013.
56
   World Bank (2005), DFA


                                                          41
representatives from the private sector. 57 The committee met every quarter under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister. The last meeting was held on October 9, 2011. After the
restructuring, the project also funded two cars for the CPI office.

6.     Commercial Registry (RCCM). The project financed the refurbishment of a Government
building to house the Commercial Court and the Commercial Registry. The renovation works
were almost complete, when the Minister of Justice requested a first revision to the renovation
plans which were executed.

7.     In August 2011, the Expression of Interest was launched for a consultant to develop the
software for the Commercial Registry in observance of the OHADA guide for modernization of
the Commercial Registry. This should have also linked the different commercial courts and
connect with the NINA database. ICT equipment for the Commercial Registry was purchased.
The premature closure of the project prevented the purchase of RCCM software. However, the
ICT material, copy machine and scanner delivered to the RCCM remained unpacked as of
December 2012.

8.      The investment code was approved by Parliament, which proved to be a difficult process.
In early December 2009, the Government decided to organize a workshop to present a Draft
Investment Code not compatible with international best practice and not having taken into
account FIAS’s advice. FIAS had performed a benchmarking study and transmitted it to the
Government. The code presented at the workshop contained a broad array of tax exemptions that
were economically distortive; its implementation that could lead to rent seeking and
mismanagement. The Bank notified the Government that this path would not be conducive to
sound private sector development. The investment code was then included into the PRSC-5 as a
prior action. The draft investment code sent in September 2010 was assessed satisfactory to the
Bank. In November 2011, the investment code was being reviewed by the Parliament. The
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Industry, Investments and Commerce are
now charged to insert the changes requested by Parliament.

Component 2: Mali Airport

9.      Under the original project description, this component was under Component 2:
Infrastructure Support for Growth (US$24.49 million). The component was to consist of three
subcomponents: (i) developing an industrial zone; (ii) improving Bamako airport and (iii)
infrastructure for rural ICT pilots and artisanal mining demonstration sites. The component was
held up by the fact that the Government had not signed the contract for the detailed feasibility
study for the Bamako airport and industrial zone. The reason was that the MCC had signed a
compact with the Government in early November 2006 planning to carry out rehabilitation of the
airport and building of an industrial zone. In late 2007, the Bank financed a detailed feasibility
study for the Bamako airport and industrial zone. The contractor, ADPi (Aéroports de Paris
Ingénierie) carried out the feasibility study which was expected to lead to the civil works phase.
The project’s Mid-Term Review was delayed in order to obtain the Government’s definite
answer regarding the concept and distribution of work at the airport and industrial zone. In spite


57
  Government of Mali (2012b), Decree N. 09-127/PM-RM from 25 March 2009; Decree No. 2011-142/PM-RM from 25 March
2011.


                                                       42
of the clarification of roles between the Bank and the MCC in November 2007, uncertainties
remained regarding the oversight of these activities (respective roles of ministries) and what
MCC would ultimately finance. The Bank dropped the infrastructure component for the airport at
MTR in March 2009.

10.     After project restructuring in June 2009 the component was to focus on the development
of a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for Airports of Mali. In that respect the Bank was to fund
financial transaction advisors to: undertake a cost-benefit analysis of the second terminal funded
by MCC and of the secondary investments (financed by the private investors); undertake the
regulatory work; and undertake the transaction advice. The choice of transaction advisors arose
as being the IFC or a project funded firm. The Government decided on an independent firm. In
June 2009, the contract for the financial advisor for the Public Private Partnership (PPP) for
Airports of Mali had been awarded; a legal and regulatory framework for industrial zones was
launched; yet the cost-benefit analysis of the primary investment could not be performed, as
MCC did not share unit costs of the construction of the new passenger terminal and the Minister
of Equipment & Transportation notified the Bank that he did not want the Financial Advisor to
carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the primary investments funded by the MCC. The remainder
of the contract amount for the financial advisors was then reallocated upon request by the
Government.

11.    Other infrastructure sub-projects – refurbishing of API, the Commercial Court and the
weaving workshop – were implemented as envisaged. Yet the weaving workshop refurbishment
shows structural problems as reported by the Coordinator during the ICR mission.

Component 3: Industrial Zones

12.     The detailed construction and zoning plan58 of the 50 ha industrial zone at the airport of
Bamako-Sénou was developed before project restructuring. The draft Industrial Zone law and a
draft decree establishing the organization and functioning of the regulatory authority of industrial
areas were submitted to the Bank for review and after extensive comments from the Bank were
sent to the Government's General Secretariat for consideration by the Council of Ministers. By
April 2013, the law and decree for the regulation of the industrial zone had not yet been adopted
as law.

Component 4: Privatization of the Telecommunications Company

13.     SOTELMA’s privatization was a stated project activity and was completed in June 2009.
The Sotelma transaction advisor contract was negotiated in 2006. The transaction
advisor/investment bank started its field work in March 2007 which it completed only in early
2008. In parallel, the social plan was prepared starting in November 2007. In 2008, the
privatization came to a halt because of the question on how to deal with redundancy issues; the
Government was concerned that financing the redundancies would take up most of the
transaction proceeds. This got resolved and the privatization was finalized in June 2009. The




58
     Plan d’aménagement.


                                                43
project financed about US$1.5 million for the transaction advisors, data-room, investor
conference and the development of a social plan.

14.      The project also supported the telecom regulatory agency, CRT, by financing about
US$2.2 million for: (i) a frequency management system; (ii) a universal telecom access study;
(iii) the set-up of a universal access fund to fund pilots in rural areas, and (iv) salaries and
training for CRT regulatory agency staff. The frequency spectrum management and monitoring
equipment was not purchased under the project but with CRT funds.

15.     This component achieved the development objective indicator, as well as market
structure and regulatory reform. The legal/regulatory framework on convergence issues is being
reviewed by the Minister of Telecommunication. A third license was issued in February 2012 to
Alpha Telecom Mali a joint venture between Monaco Telecom and Planor, a local holding
company.

Component 5: Tourism

16.     Under this component, the project funded the Tourism and Crafts Strategy (2005) and
launch events for the tourism season 2005. The tourism development strategy funded by the
project was adopted by the Council of Ministers on June 25, 2010. Some of the initially planned
activities (e.g. rehabilitation of cultural monuments) were not completed. Eco-tourism
investments, such as viewing towers and travel accommodations in the Gourma Elephant
national park were supposed to be added to the project in July 2011 and were also not completed.
The latter activity was a result of cooperation with the World Tourism Organization (WTO)
which had started to develop tourism for the Gourma Park. In ICR interviews, OMATHO
indicated that years of delays in procuring for the rehabilitation of the historical sites were due to
the fact that the World Bank did not give its no-objection for local communities to be contracted
for some of the rehabilitation works. According to OMATHO officials, the communities’
involvement in rehabilitating the sites would have been part of the cultural heritage of the sites,
and the Bank had no understanding for this request.

17.     With regards to the indicator “number of tourists? the tourist inflow increased up to 2009
but has since then dropped. This is mainly linked to the tense security situation and the instability
in the northern part of the country, where tourists have been kidnapped. In late 2010, OMATHO
reportedly pursued mitigation measures, mainly through the intensification of its promotional
campaigns.

Component 6: Handicrafts

18.     The handicraft component was to support the continuation of already planned activities:
(i) rehabilitating the weaving workshop (Tissuthèque) facilities housed in the National Artisan
Center; (ii) promoting handicraft export activities through the preparation of legal and regulatory
framework for handicraft marketing activities; (iii) provision of technical assistance for the
establishment of an Economic Interest Group, Groupe d'Intérêt Economique (GIE), to market
large-scale handicraft production; and (iv) carrying out promotion activities of the Centre
National de Promotion de l’ Artisanat.




                                                 44
19.     Since project restructuring, the component registered a number of achievements
including: (i) the completion of rehabilitating and equipping in the public weaving workshop,
Tissuthek, with four offices and an atelier for traditional weaving, a spinning room with
prototype spinning wheels, a small basic laboratory, a room to color with water treatment, a
showroom, a conference room and an information and statistical center; (ii) the adoption of the
regulatory framework for the handicraft sector by the Council of Ministers; (iii) the
establishment of a coding system for 250 handicraft export products. The procurement for the
export market study did not go through as the market was not responsive to a two year fulltime
assignment.

20.    The National Artisan Center reports that it undertook training sessions in 20 locations
throughout Mali to train 60 artisans and 880 women leaders and youth. The latter activity was
connected to the regional AfDB financed cotton and textile project, approved in November 2006.
The Tissuthek weaving room is employing four weavers, graduates from technical schools.

Component 7: Development of Financial Services

21.     The planned credit enhancement facility and the trade finance enhancement facility were
not implemented. However, to expand credit to SMEs, a risk-sharing facility (RSF) 59 was
implemented in 2007 in cooperation with the IFC during project implementation before
restructuring. This product aimed at partially guaranteeing a portfolio of newly-originated loans
to MSMEs and Micro Finance Institutions. After IFC’s assessment only the Bank of Africa and
Ecobank qualified. Under the RSF mechanism; 60 the project disbursed an amount of US$1.6
million to BOA and US$1.4 million to Ecobank. At the end of 2012, 306 SME loans were
approved in the BOA’s RSF for a total amount of more than US$12.5 million with an average
loan of around US$40.000. The average annual turn-over of the SMEs were US$400,000. The
guarantee mechanism was activated for at least non-performing 19 loans. More than 70 percent
of the loans have been provided to the sector retail and hospitality. At the same time, Ecobank
had provided about 10 SME loans for a total amount of more than US$2 million.

22.    The project’s development objective to promote medium and long-term financing for
SME as stated in the PAD and in the restructured paper was not achieved. Hence, data for the
loans of BoA indicate that this goal has not been achieved since only 10 percent of the loans
were medium-term credit. 50 percent was borrowed for short-term credit and 40 percent for
overdraft.

23.     Before starting the facility, the program was accompanied by technical assistance for a
total disbursement of around US$1.5 million (less than US$1 million for BOA’s technical
assistance and more than US$500,000 for Ecobank). Starting in October 2007, Shorebank
provided support to the BOA which allowed the creation of an SME's department. In the case of
Ecobank, the technical assistance (for a cost of US$600,000) experienced delays with activities


59
   Garantie partielle de portefeuille (GPP).
60
   The precise mechanism was the following: GoM was to provide first loss cover (up to an amount equal to 12.5 percent of the
total portfolio amount) through the provision of a IDA credit via funds allocated under the PAC project. The disbursement by the
Government would be deposited into a trust fund administered by IFC (the “Trust Fund?). IFC would cover the second-loss credit
risk of new loans originated and serviced by BOA-Mali, up to an amount equal to 37.5 percent of the total portfolio amount,
being the CFA Franc equivalent of SDR 2.96 million (US$4.9 million).


                                                              45
only starting at the beginning of 2009, and high staff turnover and lack of involvement of the
consultants.

24.     In 2008, the project absorbed some activities that had not been completed by the World
Bank-financed Financial Sector Development Project (PDSF). This included the feasibility of an
asset management corporation for recovery of bank loans;61 support to the new civil procedures
code; the privatization of the International Bank of Mali (BIM) and the restructuring of the BHM.

25.     Regarding restructuring of BHM, the state - including the National Social Security
Institute62 and Malian Housing Department63 - has contributed significantly to the recapitalization
of the BHM. The privatization process has been initiated yet has not gone forward. Under the
project, the BHM has improved corporate governance and conducted large recoveries (about
CFAF 13.4 billion since 2008). Despite the recapitalizations, BHM remains well below the
break-even point in terms of profitability. To this end, it is critical that the bank manages to
increase its housing loans and to mobilize additional medium and long-term resources. Delays in
the implementation of the restructuring were also noted. Recapitalization had not yet been
registered by statutory auditors, with the financial statements of the bank still showing negative
equity. The social plan had taken longer than expected to be completed. The interbank debt
renegotiation had not been completed. Writing a business plan, an essential step to for the future
of the bank, had not yet started. To this end, a consultant to take on the role of director of
restructuring had been recruited.

26.     The BIM privatization, which was prepared under the Financial Sector Development
Project was completed in November 2008, and the process was accompanied by technical
assistance funds financed by the project.64

27.    Due to the lack of interest of the Malian parties (banks, Agence de cessions immobilières
(ACI)) for an asset management corporation for recovery of bank loans, it was decided to
eliminate this activity following the supervision mission from May 2011.

28.    The project supported the establishment of the Land Tenure and the Civil Procedures
Code,65the land tenure registry was enhanced, more than 100 magistrates were trained on the
new CPCCS, and equipment for about US$300.000 was purchased.

29.    On microfinance, two activities were planned: supervision missions and training for new
inspectors. The training activity of the umbrella micro-finance organization, the Cellule de
contrôle et de surveillance des systèmes financiers décentralisés (CCS/SFD) was fully
implemented (US$75,000). Supervision missions took place yet not the full 20 planned
missions.66




61
   Société de gestion du patrimoine.
62
   Institut National de prévoyance sociale.
63
   Office malien de l'habitat (OMH)
64
   US$170,000.
65
   Code des procédures civiles, commerciales et sociales, CPCCS.
66
   On a provisional budget of US$170.000, less than US$50.000 has been disbursed.


                                                            46
30.    For the electronic payment system, after some preliminary tasks in order to identify a
possible project pilot, it was decided to abandon this sub-component due to lack of time and
support not fully justified.

31.    For the mobile banking activity, only a visit to Paris was funded to design a pilot project
for mobile banking. In the Aide Memoire of June 2011, the World Bank considered that a pilot
on mobile banking was not necessary as some operators were already active in mobile banking,
such as Orange Money-Inova, Zap Ertel.

Component 8: Enterprise Support Services

32.         The matching grant fund in coordination with AfD was never launched.

33.    The STEP program aimed to train young graduates to become BDS consultants for micro
firms. After a first training, the graduates began to work as “cadets? with earnings of about
US$200 per month. The goal was for the consultants to assist the micro firms to develop their
business. After two years, the consultants were then considered independent consultants and they
were able to assist the STEP by providing training to new “cadets?.

34.     The program was started by IFC and was taken over by the project in 2006. The funding
provided to the STEP between 2006 and 2012 was around US$1.2 million. The implementation
of the STEP program was relatively satisfactory. The main achievements are the following:

                    Sixty advisors have been trained since the program began in 2003, and nine local
                     offices opened in various urban centers of the country.

                    During the project, more than 11,200 microenterprises had been contacted among
                     which at least 1,284 were supported by the STEP program during at least three
                     months. The most popular training was on book-keeping and marketing. The
                     firms supported had to pay part of the cost (around US$3 per hour).

                    The micro enterprises supported by the program experienced a better performance
                     than the microenterprises without program support. For example, according to
                     the impact study, the average operating profit by year grew 60 percent compared
                     to 40 percent of the control group. Nevertheless, it is difficult to know what the
                     “STEP effect? is because the microenterprises that benefitted from the program
                     are more likely to be up-and-coming than these without program. 67

                    Based on the evaluation report, the micro entrepreneurs are predominantly
                     satisfied of the STEP support.

35.         Some initial goals have not been fully completed:

                    Relatively few women entrepreneurs were supported by the project: barely 10
                     percent of entrepreneurs supported were women.


67
     The participating firms’ annual operating profit was US$5,800 compared to and US$1,400 between 2005-2010.


                                                              47
             Initially, the support was intended for sectors with high potential for growth such
              as tourism, craft, leather and textiles products, mining and telecom. According to
              available information, more than 50 percent of the SMEs came from the
              construction sector (32 percent) and retail sector (23 percent); whereas two
              priority sectors - craft/tourism/hospitality and ITC - represented respectively only
              7 percent and 4 percent of the SMEs supported by the STEP program. The mining
              sector seems to be absent among the beneficiaries of the STEP program.

36.    Lessons learned from the program were the following:

             The institutional link of STEP with the Government is considered as a hindrance
              to the STEP as many micro enterprises were reluctant to commit to a publicly-
              funded program.

             The consultants’ turnover was considered too high and it would be important to
              clarify both sides of their activities: the STEP one and their independent activities.

Component 9: Mining

37.    The total planned project’s financing for mining was around US$9 million. Initially, the
PAD mining sub-component was extensive. From the outset, project implementation suffered a
lack of coordination between the mining focal point and the project unit which hampered
disbursements that reached US$1.5 million at the time of the restructured project (around 15
percent of the financing planned). Difficulties arose especially around procurement questions
with the focal point suspecting wrongdoing at the PCU. Despite these difficulties, some
important activities were undertaken from 2005 to 2009: capacity building on the use of
geoscientist data (Geoter); a diagnostic study on artisanal mining; an IETI consultancy and the
equipment for the laboratory of the Department of Geology and Mines.

38.    Between 2009 and 2012, the mining sector component had reached some concrete
outputs for a total disbursement of around US$2 million:

       ?      Renovation works and purchase of equipment for the documentation center in the
              National Department for Geology and Mines (DNGM);
       ?      Supply of equipment to the National Women Mining Association in Mali;
       ?      Enhancement of the environmental supervision and elaboration of environmental
              sectorial guides; and
       ?      Participation in international mining conferences (Mining Indaba, PDAC
              Convention).

39.     Nevertheless, the disbursement rate in this sub-component was also during the post-
restructured period relatively low with around 33 percent. Some planned activities had not been
launched, such as updating and the overall mining department’s strategy, mapping of the
geological and geochemical databases, a study on local suppliers for the mining industry,




                                               48
prefeasibility studies for barite, rare earths and diatomite68, a study on calk deposit for cement
production, a strategy for the control and management of state participation in mining and oil
companies, the promotion of three sites for artisanal mining, as well as the purchase of an auger.




68
 Diatomite is used as component in products and vital to the manufacturing process of thousands more. In: Industrial Minerals
North America. www.ima-na.org.


                                                             49
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

        Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a)    Task Team members

                                                                                   Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                   Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Aoua Barry                     Business Development Officer          CAFAC-HIS
Harbinder Gosal                Operations Officer                      CPAPM
Pooshpa Muni Reddi             Program Assistant                       LEGAM
Diame Youssouf Thiam           Consultant                              AFCW3
Papa Demba Thiam               Senior Private Sector Developm          AFTFW
Mohamed Wade                   Investment Officer                    CAGDR - HIS
Supervision/ICR
Hugues Agossou                 Sr Auditor                              IADVP
Fatiha Amar                    Program Assistant                       MNSSD
Craig B. Andrews               Consultant                              SASGP
Fadwa Bennani                  Private Sector Development Spe          MNSF1
Brigitte Marie Khadidja Bocoum Sr Mining Spec.                         SEGOP
Sidi Mohamed Boubacar          Lead Counsel                            LEGAM
Nestor Coffi                   Country Manager                         AFMNE
Adja Mansora Dahourou          Private Sector Development Specialist   AFTFW
Amadou Dem                     Senior Economist                        AFTFW
Fei Deng                       Sr Transport. Spec.                      EASIN
Renee M. Desclaux              Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLD
Mamadou Diarrassouba           Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.           AFTDE
Lissandra N. Ellyne            Junior Professional Associate           AFTFW
Maimouna Mbow Fam              Sr Financial Management Specia          AFTMW
Jean Paul Gauthier             Consultant                               CICAF
Harbinder Gosal                Operations Officer                      CPAPM
Mohamed Gouled                 Chief Credit Officer                    CRVDR
Boutheina Guermazi             Senior Regulatory Specialist            TWICT
Kyle F. Kelhofer               Country Manager                         CSAR3
Amadou Konare                  Consultant                              AFTEW
                                                                                   TTL (2008-June
Olivier J. Lambert             Program Manager                       MIGEA
                                                                                   2009)
Chaoying Liu                   Results Measurement Specialist        CDIAS
Jean Michel Noel Marchat       Lead Private Sector Development       AFTFW
Maiko Miyake                   Head                                  CAFIC
                                                                                   TTL(2003 -
Francois Nankobogo             Senior Operations Officer             ECSO1
                                                                                   2007)
Jean-Christophe Ngo            Consultant                            AFTFW



                                                 50
                                                                                      Responsibility/
              Names                              Title                     Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Tonle Josephine Ngou
                                 Senior Executive Assistant               AFTHD
Mawamba
                                                                                     TTL (July 2009-
Michel Noel                      Service Line Manager                     FCMNB
                                                                                     April 2011)
Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo         Principal Investment Officer             CN2SI
Ganesh Rasagam                   Lead Private Sector Developmen           AFTFE
Andre Ryba                       Consultant                               AFTFE
Rokhayatou Sarr Samb             Procurement Specialist                   AFTPE
Aoua Toure Sow                   Program Assistant                        AFCW3
Diame Youssouf Thiam             Consultant                               AFCW3
Abdou Togola                     Program Assistant                        AFCW3
Cheick Traore                    Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPW

                                                                                     TTL (May 2011-
                                 Senior Private Sector Development                   September 2012)
Lorenzo Bertolini                                                         AFTFW
                                 Specialist                                          Task Team
                                                                                     Leader ICR

Michaela Weber                   Private Sector Development Specialist.   AFTFE      ICR Author
Mahamadou Bambo Sissoko          Procurement Specialist                   AFTPW
Jacqueline Veloz Lockward        Program Assistant                        AFTFW
Tana Ngwira                      Senior Country Program Assistant         AFTFW
Axel Gastambide                  Private Sector Development Specialist    AFTFW

(b)     Staff Time and Cost

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                           US$ Thousands (including
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending

 FY03                                                                              86.07
 FY04                                                                             294.96
 FY05                                                                             299.62
 FY06                                                                               1.09
 FY07                                                                               0.00
 FY08                                                                               0.00
                                 Total:                                           681.74
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                                                             324.37
 FY07                                                                             211.08
 FY08                                                                             230.00
 FY 09                                                                            523.98



                                                  51
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
    Stage of Project Cycle                                       US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
FY 10                                                                     423.02
FY 11                                                                     221.18
FY 12                                                                      94.687
                             Total:                                       841.04




                                          52
           Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


       Satisfactory Identification

1.      The Government report noted that the World Bank conducted a sound analysis of Mali’s
situation in the Project Appraisal Document, which exposed all the problems undermining Mali’s
development, namely difficulties in accessing land for industrial use; the poor condition of the
Bamako airport; the risk of a decline in mining output; very little development of its tourism and
crafts potential; limited access to telecommunications services; and limited access to financial
and non-financial services.

2.      This initial assessment of the project involved all agencies that benefit from the project,
which is a major strength of the project. It should be noted, however, with regret, that this
analysis of the context omitted a significant problem linked to the lack of access to energy so that
no action was scheduled in the project to address this challenge.

       Unsatisfactory Framework for Intervention

3.       Sadly, this solid initial assessment of the project was followed by poor design/planning,
the latter being characterized by:

              Reduced internal consistency, which, while certainly reflecting alignment of the
               project with the objectives of both partners (the World Bank and the Government
               of Mali), revealed a lack of consistency in the intervention’s approach: a number
               of the results are inconsistent with the objectives, while some indicators do not
               match up with the results they are intended to measure;
              The lack of a logical framework, the project itself being presented as a program
               comprising a group of projects, the integration of which is questionable; and
              A non-participatory environment, the various Ministry departments concerned not
               having been involved in identifying the priority actions for growth that could be
               integrated into the project.

4.      The consequence of this weakness in the project’s design is that the project’s activities
fail to address the primary concerns of some departments, which then tend to replace certain
project activities with activities they deem a priority for themselves.

       Main Project Outcomes

5.     Despite the difficulties encountered in the project’s implementation, significant results
have been achieved. For a disbursement rate of 38.41 percent overall, 55.44 percent of
performance goals have been achieved, which have resulted in the following changes:

              With regard to the investment climate, we note with satisfaction:
               ?      The improvement in the business climate in Mali and the encouragement
                      of private investment through the investment promotion strategy and the



                                                53
           adoption of the Investment Code Act, the impact of which is the
           establishment of a climate of trust in the business community; and
    ?      The reduction in the time for investment approval by 45 days in 2005 and
           26 days in 2012 with the secondary effect of enthusiasm for the creation of
           businesses, resulting in a significant growth in the number of businesses
           created: from 2,000 in 2005 to 5,223 in 2011, an average annual growth
           rate of 26.85 percent corresponding to the creation of 537 companies per
           year.

   With regard to the Telecom component, thanks to a review of the regulatory
    framework for ICT and telecommunications, there have been:
    ?     An opening up of the telecommunications sector with the arrival of a
          second operator, ORANGE MALI, and the privatization of SOTELMA;
    ?     The award of a third mobile telephone license;
    ?     A significant increase in teledensity in Mali; and
    ?     A reduction in costs and improvement in the quality of telephone services
          thanks to competition.

   With regard to tourism, we note the increasing number of tourists: 115,500 in
    2009; 129,400 in 2010; and 129,975 in 2011, resulting in foreign currency
    earnings each year.

   With regard to handicraft, export values represented CFAF 3,733,886,239
    (US$7.4 million) in 2009; CFAF 5,346,793,975 (US$10.6 million) in 2010; and
    CFAF 5,785,502,347 (US$11.5 million) in 2011.

   With regard to the “Access to Financial Services? component, the following
    changes are noteworthy:
    ?     The privatization of the BIM;
    ?     The recapitalization of the BHM thanks to the contribution of the State
          and the reevaluation of its assets to over CFAF 17.8 billion (US$35
          million), and recovery yields, which amount to date to more than CFAF 2
          billion (US$4 million);
    ?     The improvement in management of the BHM and its restructuring ahead
          of time;
    ?     Better management of litigation with time-saving, reliable data, and better
          monitoring;
    ?     Improved accounting (bank reporting facility with direct generation of
          accounting statements);
    ?     A reliable budgetary module thereby improving budget management;
    ?     A direct generation of the payment indicators at the balance of payments
          level; and
    ?     Access of investors to credit, backed by the partial guarantee deposited at
          the BOA and ECOBANK.




                                   54
     With regard to the SAF (Business Development Services) component, the
      following changes were noted:
      ?      The development of entrepreneurship among young people;
      ?      The actual creation of viable micro-enterprises as a result of the
             supervision by STEP consultants;
      ?      The strengthening of the supervised companies’ ability to operate with the
             possible impact being the viability of these companies; and
      ?      The creation of jobs and self-employment through former consultants
             (some STEP consultants have formed consulting firms to support
             businesses in STEP areas).

     With regard to the Mines component, there has been an increase in the level of
      investment in the mining sector from a 2005 baseline of US$155 million to about
      US$133.653 billion in 2011, thanks to the influx of new investors following a
      review of the Mining Code.

The Main Constraints

     Constraints related to the World Bank
      ?     Cumbersome and complicated procedures of the Bank extending the time
            for review and approval of applications;
      ?     The response time―often too long―for obtaining a “no objection? in
            relation to applications;
      ?     The frequent changes in approaches owing to the impermanence of the
            Bank’s Project Team Leaders;
      ?     The rigidity of procedures that do not reflect current realities (e.g. the
            requirement to invite tenders instead of entering into a direct agreement
            for Oracle and Delta software, which are under monopoly) and the cultural
            constraints of certain projects (e.g. consultation required for the
            rehabilitation of sacred cultural monuments in Dogon country); and
      ?     A constant readjustment of certain components, such as the airport and the
            industrial zone, with the calling into question of planned structuring
            activities and the flexibility of the decisions made by the Bank.

     Constraints related to project management
      ?     The complexity of project coordination owing to the multitude of
            Ministries involved in its execution;
      ?     The frequent institutional changes (changes of Ministry and of
            coordinators);
      ?     The outsourcing of focal points and the weak commitment of the latter,
            notwithstanding the perceived benefits;
      ?     The poor quality of applications submitted to the project for funding
            because of the focal points’ lack of familiarity with the Bank’s procedures;
      ?     The multitude of components and focal points that add to the project’s
            need for coordination;



                                      55
               ?      The lack of autonomy of the PCU and of delegation to the project’s
                      Steering Committee, which limit their ability to act; and
               ?      The absence at the start of the project of a monitoring and evaluation
                      officer.

              Constraints related to procurement procedures
               ?     The delay in the processing of applications owing to work overload of the
                     procurement specialist;
               ?     The exceedingly heavy workload of the sole contracts officer involving
                     multi-sectoral issues requiring a broad range of knowledge. This situation
                     is the result of a change in option during the implementation of the
                     project: the initial version of the project involved the recruitment of two
                     agencies, namely a project financial management agency and a contract
                     management agency, paid US$80,000 for the duration of the project, with
                     a procurement plan. This was then changed from a financial management
                     agency to an agent, and from a contracts management agency to an agent,
                     while maintaining the same procurement plan; and
               ?     The procurement specialist’s insufficient knowledge of the various areas
                     of intervention.

              Constraints related to the project
               ?     The complexity of the project because of the multiplicity of areas of
                     intervention;
               ?     The underestimation of the cost of certain activities without possibility of
                     review, thereby jeopardizing their implementation; and
               ?     The end of funding for most of the activities scheduled following the early
                     termination of the project.

              Exogenous Constraints
               ?     The inflow from MCC which brought CFAF 284 billion (US$563 million)
                     in funding to Mali in the form of grants, while the total Growth Support
                     Project (Projet d’Appui à la Croissance - PAC) funding (grant and credit
                     combined) accounted for only CFAF 28.8 billion [US$55 million]. The
                     two financial partners performing the same activities in the same area
                     should have agreed on the modalities of intervention, but this was not
                     done. This fact led to a delay of approximately (thirteen) 13 months in the
                     implementation of activities at Bamako Airport (Aéroports du Mali
                     ADM), a misunderstanding which led to elimination of the majority of
                     PAC activities for the airport and the industrial zone, resulting in a loss of
                     US$15 million of the project’s budget.

6.     Further to the transmission of a French summary of the draft ICR and its ratings to the
borrower, a video-conferenced meeting was held on April 24, 2013 with the Malian government,
a representative of the Association of Malian Industry and representatives of the French
Development Cooperation (AFD). All focal points had been invited to the meeting. In the
meeting, the Malian participants did not directly question the ICR ratings but highlighted that the


                                                56
World Bank, especially at restructuring, did not sufficiently take into account the government
priorities, and its related government’s action plans. The discussion pointed out the need for
more flexibility during project implementation and to define more closely with the borrower the
design of project activities.

7.       The meeting devoted time to two specific components: investment climate, with
emphasis of the project’s contributions to API-Mali and Business development Services. On the
latter, the discussion pointed out that when at project restructuring the cooperation on BDS with
AFD and the European Union had been decided, subsequently difficulties arose around
procedures, but mostly around the governance of the local body accompanying the matching
grants, representation and its legal basis. This lengthy preparation phase took from 2009 to 2011
when the project was closed. Currently, the private sector association, the ‘Patronat’, is
implementing a Danish BDS program. In addition, regarding to the STEP program, the
representative of the private sector association underlined that it would have been better if the
STEP program had been implemented by the private sector.

8.      Written comments by the former Project Coordinator on behalf of the Ministry of
Industry were received after the meeting. He challenged the ICR outcome rating and suggested it
to be upgrade to moderately satisfactory. He furthermore requested to report objectively on
project achievements after 2009 and considered the PCU to have been small. In terms of Bank
performance, he considered that the upgrade of the Malian World Bank office to a regional office
and the decentralization of the project team brought benefits to the implementation of the project.
Finally, he noted that the private sector and the government were in agreement in requesting the
immediate start of preparation for a new World Bank project which would be simple, smart and
targeted to sustain the PAC’s achievements, specifically the improvement in the business
environment, the activities around creation and promotion of private enterprises, the introduction
of PPP in the building and management of infrastructure, research in enterprise competitiveness69
and building capacity of facilitator institutions.




69
     This most likely refers to the World Bank ICA on SME competitiveness in Mali, a report that was issued in 2011.


                                                                57
                           Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents

Bank of Africa (2010), Rapport final du Projet d'appui à la croissance (PAC) et la Société
Financière internationale (SFI), Bank of Africa (BOA), Mali, Jan 2010.

BBC News (2013), Mali conflict: Timbuktu manuscripts destroyed, January 2013.

Government of Mali (2005), Decree No 05- 1756 from 15 July, 2005 of the Ministry for the
Promotion of Investment and Small and Medium Enterprises.

Government of Mali (2012a), Law NO. 2012-016 from 27 February 2012, and the Decree Nr.
2012-475/P-RM from 20 August 2012.

Government of Mali (2012b), Decree N. 09-127/PM-RM from 25 March 2009; Decree Nr. 2011-
142/PM-RM from 25 March 2011.

IADL consultant (2010), Rapport de l’étude d’impacts (2006-2010) – Programme stratégies et
techniques pour l’envol des petites entreprises.

IFC (2012), Back-to-Office report, results validation mission for project completion, Mali
investment climate reform program – Phase 2, December 3-6, 2012.

IFC, Bank of Africa (2008), Risk Sharing Facility Agreement between BOA and IFC, July 2008

Industrial Minerals North America, www.ima-na.org.

MCC Final Status Report, Mali Compact, December 2012.

Ministry of Investment Promotion, Small and Medium Enterprises (2004), Strategic
Environmental and Social Assessment (Evaluation Environmentale et Sociale Stratégique),
October 2004.

STEP (2011), Rapport d'activités de STEP, 2011.

World Bank (2005a), Project Appraisal Document, Mali Growth Support Project.

World Bank (2005b), Development Financing Agreement (DFA), Mali Growth Support Project.

World Bank (2005c), Minutes of World Bank decision meeting, January 8, 2005.

World Bank (2005d), DFC amendment, October 2005.

World Bank (2007), Mali Country Assistance, 2007

World Bank (2008a), DFA amendment, August 2008.

World Bank (2008b), Quality Assurance Group (QAG), Review of Project Portfolio in Africa,
Guidance Framework, Mali Growth Support Project.



                                               58
World Bank (2009a), Restructuring Paper, Mali Growth Support Project.

World Bank (2009b), DFA amendment, September 2009.

World Bank (2009c), Revue indépendante des procédures de passation des marches

World Bank (2009d), Note de synthèse de la revue des dépenses de contrepartie et des dépenses
de promotion de l’investissement pour la période 2006-2007-2008.

World Bank (2010a), Implementation Completion and Results Report, Gambia Gateway Project,
June 29, 2010.

World Bank (2010b), SME, Growth and Diversification Investment Climate Assessment (ICA)
Mali, July 2011.

World Bank (2011), Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers, January 2011.

World Bank (2012a), Implementation Completion and Results Report, PRSC 3-5, 29 June 2012,
Report No: ICR 00002127.

World Bank (2012b), Economy Profile Mali, Doing Business 2013

World Bank, Aide-memoires (2005-2012), Mali Growth Support Project




                                              59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33443R


                                                                                                      MALI
                                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                         MAIN ROADS

                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                 RAILROADS

                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                           RIVERS                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                    5°W                                                   0°

                                                                                                                                                                0                100         200         300 Kilometers


                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                 Chenachane                                                     0               50     100         150      300 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25°N

                                MALI
                                                                       To
                                                                    El Mreîti

                                                                                S a h a r a                         D e s e r t                                                 ALGERIA
                                                                            To
                                                                         El Mreîti
                                                                                                      Taoudenni
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                    Poste Maurice
                                                                                                                                                                       Cortier




                                                                                                  TOMBOUCTOU                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Abalessa
20°N                                                                                                                                                           Tessalit                                                            20°N


              M A U R I TA N I A                                                                                                                                                KIDAL



                                                                                                                                                                           si
                                                                                                              Araouane



                                                                                                                                                                   du Tilem
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kidal
                                                                                                                                                              llée
                                                                                                                                                           Va


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             k
                                                                                                              Tombouctou
                                                                                                                                  Gourma                                                                                  ua
                                                                                                                                  Rharous




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    za
                                                                                                                (Timbuktu)
                                                                                                                                                                                 GAO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L’A
                                                                                                                                                          Bourem
                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                               Nige




                                                                                                                                                                                                              de
                                               To




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Vallée
              To                              Ayun
                                                                                                                               Lac Niangay                     Gao
              Kifa                         el ’Atrous                                                 Niafounke                                                                        Menaka
                                                                                To Néma                                                Hombori
                                                                                                            Lac                         Tondo
                                                                                                                                      (1,155 m)          Ansongo
                                                                Nara                 Nampala               Débo
                                   Nioro                                                                                                                                                               To
15°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15°N
                                                                       RO




                                du Sahel                                                                                     Douentza                                                                 Abala
                                                                                                            MOPTI                                                                    To Niamey
                                                                                                           Mopti
                                                                    O




                     Kayes                                                                                               Bandiagara
                                                                                 Niono
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NIGER
                                                                IK




    To
                             K AY E S
  Goudiry            Ba
                                                                                 SÉGOU
                                                                UL




                       fin                  lé       Kolokani                                                                      To
                                        Baou                                           Ségou Bani                               Ouahigouya
                                                            O




                                                                          r
                         g




                                                                       ge
                                                                     Ni
                                                          K




          To                                                                                           San
       Kédougou                     Kita                                                                            To
                      Kéniéba
                                              BAMAKO              Koulikoro                                        Nouna
                                                                                                                                BURKINA
                                                                                      Koutiala
                                                                                                                                 FASO
                                             To
                                           Siguiri                   Bougouni                             To
                                    DISTRICT                                                     Sikasso Bobo
  GUINEA                        DE BAMAKO                       SIKASSO                                Dioulasso

                                                   To                                                                                                                                  BENIN
                                                 Kankan

10°N                                                                                          To                                                                                                                                   10°N
                                                                                            Korhogo

                                                                                                                                          GHANA                                                     This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                    the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                TOGO




  SIERRA                                                                                                                                                                                            colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                    any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                    on this map do not imply, on
  LEONE                                                                       CÔTE D’IVOIRE                                                                                                         the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                    legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                    acceptance of such
                                 10°W                                                               5°W                                                   0°                                        boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 2009
