RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-752
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
November 5, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONiSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECCOIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAPIBIA
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
posed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $5.3
million to the Republic of Zambia for a second education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In April 1969, the Bank made a loan of $17.4 million to the
Republic of Zambia to assist mainly in the development of secondary
education. That project, as originally proposed by the Zambian Govern-
ment, had included extensions to the University of Zambia, but the
appraisal mission which visited Zambia in AprilA4iay 1968 found diffi-
culty in evaluating these extensions on the basis of the existing data.
The Government of Zambia accordingly suggested that consideration of
the University be deferred so that the other components of the project
could go ahead. In February 1969, the Government presented a separate
request for financing University extensions, supported by additional
planning data. This second project was appraised in May 1969.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in October 1969.
The borrower was represented by a delegation led by Mr. E. G. Kasonde,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Development and Finance.
4.        Before Zambia became independent, the Bank made two loans
for railways in wihat was then Northern Rhodesia and Southern Rhodesia,
and two loans for power to the Central African Power Corporation, jointly
owned by Zambia and Southern Rhodesia. Zambia has since assumed respon-
sibility for its share of these loans. Each of the pre-independence
loans is guaranteed by the United Kingdom. The following is a surmmary
statement of these loans, and of the five loans subsequently made to
independent Zambia, as of September 30, 1969:



-2-
Amount LUS$ mil:Li on)
Loan No.   Year      Borrower           Purpose      Bark     Undisbur,et1
74-NR      1953   Zambia           Railways          1-4.0         -
145-RN     1956   Central African                        2/
Power Corp. 1/  Electric Power   40.0-          -
197-FN     1958   Zambia 1/        Railways           9.5          -
392-RNS    1964   Central-African                         2/
Power Corp.     Electric Power    3.85-         -
469-ZA     1966   Zambia           Roads             17.5         7.1
562-ZA     1968   Zambia           Forestry           5.3         5.3
563-ZA     1968   Zambia           Roads             10.7         3.0
592-ZA     1969   Zambia           Education         17.4        17.4
627-ZA     1969   Zambia           Livestock          2.5         2.5
Total (less cancellations)                 120.7
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       25.2
Total now outstanding                       95.5
Amount sold:                    37.5
of which has been repaid      20.0         17.5
Total now held by Bank                       78.0
Total undisbursed                                        35.3
5.         Since June 1, 1966, the Central African Power Corporation
has been unable to obtain the foreign exchange from Southern Rhodesia
and Zambia for payments under the 1956 and 1964 loans. Zambia and the
United Kingdom have each made one-half of these payments as guarantors.
6.         Proposals for the financing of a commercial crops (tobacco
and maize) farming development project, and of an extension to the
power installations at Kariba which were financed by Loan 145-RN of
1956, may be ready for your consideration in FY 1970.
1/ As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connec-
tion with the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland at the end of 1963.
2/ Amount guaranteed by Zambia, i.e., one-half of loan.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPCSED LCON
7.        Borrower:            Republic of Zambia.
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to
US $5.3 million.
Purpose:              To finance the foreign exchange costs
of (i) the extension and further
equipping of the Schools of Education
and Engineering of the University of
Zambia; and (ii) the construction and
furnishing of student hostels, including
staff housing, to accomodate the increased
registration in these schools.
Amortization:         In 25 years, including a ten-year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning January 15, 1980 and
ending January 15, 1995.
Interest Rate:        7% per annum.
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report on the proposed project entitled "Appraisal of an
Education Project in Zambia (Second Education Project)" (PE-8a, dated
October 29, 1969) is attached.
9.        Zambia suffers from a particularly critical shortage of high-
level manpower. In 1966, of a total number of 3,650 posts occupied by
degree-holders, only 150 were held by Zambians. Crucial shortages of
qualified manpower exist in every sector of the econony. INearly all
teachers at secondary and post-secondary level are expatriates. The
heavy dependence on expatriates is costly, imposes a high rate of turn-
over and has resulted in a large number of posts remaining unfilled. The
University of Zambia was established in 1965 as the principal means of
overcoming this problem, for which there can be no easy or rapid solution.
Student enrollment in the eight schools of the University now exceeds
1,000. The aim is to raise enrollment by the late 1970's to 5,000, with
special emphasis on the education and science faculties.  There will stZll bre
a considerable shortfall of skilled manpower in many sectors in 1980,
even with that rate of expansion. But any faster rate would outrun the
supply of qualified University entrants.



- 4 -
10        The University's intermediate target is to expand enrollment
to 3,400 by 1973. Much of this expansion can be achieved by fuller
utilization of existing department buildings, except for the Schools
of Education and Engineering, where the need for additional facilities
is clearly indicated. The extension to the School of Education, pro-
posed as part of the project, will meet the enrollment target of 900
undergraduate students in 1973; it will substantially increase the out-
put of secondary school teachers and will go far to eliminate the short-
age of Zambian teachers by the late 1970's. The intermediate target for
engineering is to raise enrollment from 27 in 1969 to 360 in 1975, which
can be achieved with the proposed extension to the School of Engineering;
with this expansion, Zambia will begin to fill a fair number of engineer-
ing positions, although the shortage is likely to continue well after
1980. Staffing these Schools should not cause difficulty. Agreement has
been reached with the Government to revise within the next twelve months
the curricula and detailed syllabi of the School of Engineering, in order
to relate them more directly to the industrial aspects of engineering.
11.       It is expected that about 80 percent of students at the Uni-
versity will require residential accommodation, because only a small
proportion come from Lusaka, where the University is situated, and suit-
able accommodation in the city is very scarce. By 1973, accommodation
for some 2,700 students will be required, if the enrollment target of
3,400 is to be achieved. Student hostels already completed or under
construction can accommodate 1,240; consequently, an additional 1,460
places will be required. The proposal to construct 960 hostel places as
part of the project would meet the needs of the Schools of Engineering
and Education; the Government will be responsible for hostels for the
other schools of the University. To keep costs to a minimum, the stand-
ards of accommodation originally proposed by the Government have been
substantially reduced.
12.       The Government will establish within the University a Project
Unit responsible for the implementation of the project and headed by a
Project Director acceptable to the Bank. The Government will also em-
ploy qualified and experienced firms of architects, acceptable to the
Bank, to undertake the necessary architectural and engineering services.
13.       Total project costs are estimated at US $7.4 million equiva-
lent. The proposed Bank loan of US $5.3 million would finance the
estimated foreign exchange component representing 72 percent of total
project costs; the Government will cover the local currency require-
ments of US $2.1 million equivalent. Because of the need of starting
construction as soon as possible, the University began preparatory wfork
on the project in October 1969, including preparation of an architectu-
ral master plan. It is proposed to allow retroactive financing of
these costs up to US $50,000.
14.       Contracts for construction and supply of furniture and equip-
ment will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding,
except for civil worlcs contracts in an amount of less than US $140,000



euiivalent, which may be awarded on the basis of domestic competitive
bidding, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 3ank.  As ir
the first education loan, the Woveranaent has, however, undertaken to
group, whenever possible, civil works under the project in bid pack-
ages large enough to attract international interest and there will in
practice be very few, if any, civil works contracts amounting to less
than US $1DO,000 equivalent.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRiENBTS AND AUTHORITY
i5.       TLe draft Loan AgrEement between the Republic of Zamb-a and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion h(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the 3ank, and the text of
a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       The provisions of the draft Loar Agreement generally conform
to the pattern of Bank education projects.
PART V - TiE ECONOMY
17.       A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Zambia
(AF-81a)' dated August 21, 1968, was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors on August 27, 1968. An economic mission has recently visited Zambra,
and its report is in course of preparation. After the rission's returr,
the Government announced its intention of entering into negotiations wi-atn
the copper mining companies for a 51 percent participation in their share
capital and of reforming the system of taxation of the mining companies.
It is proposed to send a brief follow-up mission at the beginning of next
year to assess the probable effect of the new measures. The present
surmmary of the economic situation is based on the findings of the latest
economic mission, and on information that has subsequently become avail-
able on the new economic measures.
18.       The copper industry in Zambia produces about t5 percent of
GDP, more than 90 percent of exports, and almost 70 percent of the
Governrment's revenue. Hoowever, only a small part of the population is
engaged in the industry. Almost 60 percent of the population is engage.'
in agriculture, which contributes less than 10 percent to GDP. The
First National Development Plan (1966-1971) had as one of its objectives
a reduction of the economy's dependen.ce on copper, and off narrowing the
gap between the modern and the traditional rural sectors.  However,
owing to Rhodesia's unilateral declaration of independence in November
1965 (UDI), this Development Plan had a very difficult start. New
transport routes had to be developed, and newq sources of supply had to
be found. Disengagement from Rhodesia was costly and disrupted th:Se pmlt-
tern of priorities as set out in the Development Plan. In particular,
much more than intended had to be spent on reorganizing the basil
infrastructure.



- 6 -
19.       Nevertheless, the Zambian economy has shown remarkable resili-
ence. After a temporary dip in copper output in 1966, owing to diffi-
c.,ulties with transport and the supply of fuel, production is now higher
than before UDI. The high copper prices prevailing over the last few
years, combined with rising output, greatly helped Zambia to overcome
the problems caused by UDI. Manufacturing and construction have also
been growing rapidly. Cn the other hand, growth in agriculture remains
disappointing, and the Government has yet to define clearly its poli-
cies and objectives for the sector. Overall, GDP in real terms grew by
8 to 9 percent a year between 1965 and 1968. Government expenditure
more than doubled between 1965 and 1968, without any significant deficit
financing or recourse to foreign borrowing, and there were no serious
oalance of payments problems.  In 1969, substantial surpluses are
expected in both the budget and the balance of payments. However,
copper prices are expected to decline gradually to a more moderate level,
which would tend to make Zambials financial position less buoyant. Pro-
vided the Government continues to maintain firm control over expenditures,
it would, however, take a considerable decline in prices before any seri-
ous financial stringency would arise.
20.       The Government announcement in August 1969 of its intention to
take a 51 percent shareholding in the copper mining companies in Zambia
was not wholly unexpected, following on the economic reforms in April
1968, which led to negotiated Government participations in a number of
foreign-controlled companies, mainly engaged in commerce and small manu-
facturing. At the Government's request, the mining companies, who them-
selves had proposed before independence that the Government take a parti-
cipation, have submitted proposals on the future conduct of the industry,
and negotiations between the Government and the companies are reported to
be progressing satisfactorily. The main issues to be settled are the
take-over price, arrangements to protect the interests of expatriate
employees, and the conclusion of sales and management contracts. If the
copper companies reach a satisfactory agreement with the Government, pro-
duction need not be adversely affected, and, subject to market conditions,
may well continue to expand.
21.       Together with the proposed take-over, the Government announced
two measures that should encourage mineral production. First, the
existing concessions in perpetuity would be replaced by 25-year leases
in areas where mining is in operation, thus opening the possibility of
inviting new mining interests to participate with the Government in the
development of new mines in other areas. Secondly, the present system
of copper taxation, whereby taxes depend largely on prices and exports,
would be replaced by a system in which the tax liability is based on
profits. The new system is intended to encourage new mining operations.
22.       Meanwhile, the Government is going ahead with its attempts to
diversify the economy. Manufacturing industries are being expanded to
produce substitutes for imports. In agriculture, good prospects exist
for tobacco, poultry and groundnuts, which have good export potential, as
well as for cotton, sugar, and livestock products, which are import



- 7 -
substitutes with a substantial growth potential. The Bank is partici-
pating in the diversification efforts with loans for forestry and live-
stock projects. A further project for the development of commercial
crops farming is under consideration. In the long run, Zambia's success
in developing the productive sectors of its economy will depend greatly
on the availability of educated and skilled manpower. A large expansion
of the educational system is in progress; the Bank has made one loan fcr
secondary education and the proposed loan for University expansion is in
line with economic priorities.
23.       Despite the emphasis on diversification, Zambia's creditworthi-
ness will remain basically dependent on the output and price of copper
for some time to come. The Government recognizes the exceptional nature
of the present high copper prices, and is pursuing a prudent expenditure
policy, building up reserves for leaner years. Zambia's external debt
in December 1968 was US $264 million. Service on this debt is estimated
to represent about 2 percent of foreign exchange earnings in 1969. This
relatively small debt, combined with Zambia's basic economic strength,
justifies borrowing abroad on conventional terms to help finance develop-
ment projects.
PART VI - COMPLIANCI WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMET
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOIMENTDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 5 , 1969



