Document of
The World Bank                 FILEs COP 1%jY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3374-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$43.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
July 29, 1982
i  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   -   Zaire (Z)
Zaire 1.00      -   US$0.18
US$1.00         -   Z5.50
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)     =  0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2) =  0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)  = 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)   =  1.13 cubic yards
ACRONYMES AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF            African Development Fund
AGCD            Administration Gengrale de la Cooperation au
3eveloppement (Belgium)
BADEA       =   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CFMK            Chemin de Fer de Matadi a Kinshasa
CIDA        =   Canadian International Development Agency
FAC             Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FED         =   European Development Fund
GEEP        =   Groupe d'Etudes, Economie et Planification
KfW         =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
LNTP        =   Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics
ODM         =   Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
MPW         =   Ministry of Public Works
MTC         =   Ministry of Transport and Communications
OR          =   Office des Routes
SGMTP       =   Service de Gestion du Materiel des Travaux
*                            Publics
SNCZ        =   Socifte Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
USAID       =   US Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:               Office des Routes (OR) under the Ministry of
Public Works
Amount:                    SDR 38.6 million (US$43.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms
Co-Lender:                African Development Fund (20.1 million Units of
Account, equivalent to US$20.6 million)
Project Description:       The Project would support the 1983-85 work program
of the Office des Routes and include continuation
of the country-wide road maintenance and
rehabililitation program begun under the Fourth
Highway Project by providing funds for the
procurement of road equipment, spare parts, fuel
and lubricants, radio equipment, materials and
technical assistance; resurfacing and
strengthening of about 165 km of paved roads;
replacement of ferries and construction of ferry
approaches; reconstruction of bridges, procurement
of equipment for the national public works
laboratory  and studies.   Bilateral technical
assistance to OR from a number of sources would
continue.
Project Benefits:          The main benefit of the Project would be to help
ensure that the transport needs on Zaire's main
network of 40,900 km, which carries 96 percent of
total traffic can be satisfied and to facilitate
transport of agricultural inputs and other
commodities to rural areas, and of agricultural
produce to urban areas.  In addition, the
replacement of ferries and the reconstruction
of bridges will keep main roads open to traffic
and would reduce vehicle operating costs. The
main risks associated with the Project arise from
insufficient numbers of qualified local staff;
from the possible shortage of local counterpart
funds and from threats to the autonomy of OR.
These risks are mitigated by continuation of a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



( ii)
training program for the staff of OR and the
provision of adequate technical assistance; by the
earmarking of fuel taxes to finance OR's
operations and parts of its investments, and by legislation
to protect the autonomy of OR from interference by the
local and regional levels of government.
Estimated Costs:   Total Project costs, are shown below:
Local        Foreign       Total
…--------US$ Million       …
I.    Maintenance, Rehabilitation
and Training                      27.1          44.2           71.3
II.   Resurfacing Program                 5.2          11.3          16.5
III.  Ferries and Access Ramps            1.3           1.0           2.3
IV.   Bridge Program                      0.6           2.3           2.9
V.    Laboratory Equipment                0.1           0.4           0.5
VI.   Studies                             0.1           0.2           0.3
VII.  Contingencies                      10.0          17.3          27.3
Total Cost                      44.4          76.7         121.1
Net of Taxes                       37.3          76.7          114.0
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign       Total    Percent
---------- US$ Million-----------------
IDA                                 -           43.5          43.5      36.0
African Development Fund            -           20.6           20.6      17.0
Other Co-financiers 1/              -           12.6           12.6      10.4
Government                        44.4 2/         -           44.4       36.6
TOTAL                    44.4          76.7          121.1    100.0
1/ This amount includes continuation of ongoing bilateral assistance of
about US$10.5 million, and US$2.1 million under bilateral assistance
now under discussion.
2/ Including US$7.1 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



(iii)
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years            1983    1984    1985    1986
--------US$ Millions
Annual                       1.5    12.0    15.5       14.5
Cumulative                   1.5    13.5    29.0       43.5
Rate of Return: 55 percent for 92 percent of Project costs.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3757a-ZR, dated June 1, 1982
Map: IBRD 15984



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT kND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 38.6
million (US$43.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
three-year (1983-85) highways maintenance and rehabilitation program under a
Fifth Highway Project. The African Development Fund is considering parallel
co-financing of 20.1 million Units of Account (equivalent to US$20.6 million)
for the Project on concessional terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on June
22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement in support of a medium-term
(1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic situation, performance and
prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the Consultative Group later
that month; and, in early July, Zaire negotiated a new debt rescheduling
agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These developments and others are
described below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the rate
of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it nas traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1977-79 averages).
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (P-3130-ZR of April 22,
1982). An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report is under
preparation.



- 2 -
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to seven years
following independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe
disruption of the economy; but after the restoration of political order and
stability in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until
1974. Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic
difficulties which have brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links between
urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect of the country's
productive capacity and infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in the international price of copper,
was a major contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 -
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about US$330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978.  Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system. This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion.  The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978, to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of
SDR 118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the
stabilization program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met
all the performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount
under the Stand-by. The program contributed, inter alia to reducing the
inflation rate from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or
below the level envisaged in the program.
10.     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
external public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in 1979.



-4-
11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium- and long-term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat. While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain.  Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Governrent views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgitm.  Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is iiinctioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; some agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the maragement of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term Public Investment Program (PIP),
and the World Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this
endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the
period 1979-81, focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors
such as transportation and agriculture. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80
was constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of
certain on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40
percent of the PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about
60 percent foreseen under the program. Nevertheless, the experience proved
valuable. The preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the
establishment of an investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This
process has been yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has
been building up; programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being
institutionalized; and the agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process
are slowly being sensitized to the importance of this very cooperation. In
early 1981, the Government prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on
the experience with the first program (see below).



- 5 -
Recent Developments and Steps toward Recovery
14.     The year 1981 witnessed a number of national and international actions
to set Zaire an the path to economic recovery. First, Zaire focused its
investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities for recovery,
namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity (especially mining)
and related infrastructure (especially transportation). These two sectors
account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also continued the process
of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For example, it established an
External Resources Coordination Committee to deal speedily with all matters
relating to external assistance and particularly with project implementation
bottlenecks as they arise. The permanent members of the Committee include the
representatives of the UNDP, FED and the World Bank. In addition, a major
reorganizat'on of the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is
being studied, and a review of the tax system is under way in cooperation with
the IMF.
15.     In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation of
the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the period
1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating and expanding supply, keeping
the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange
management.  On June 19, 1981, the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible foreign exchange rate policy involving
frequent adjustments in the rate; interest rates were adjusted upward and will
be reviewed periodically; and the existing price controls on most goods and
services were removed in order to stimulate the private sector.  In support of
the medium-term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended
arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984, in an amount
equivalent to SDR 912 million. However, the program ran into difficulties after
August 1981 (see paragraph 16). In addition, Zaire prepared an Agricultural
Action Plan in order to bring about improvements in the following key areas:
(i) strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit
and foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. The Action Plan as well as the overall economic situation and
prospects of Zaire were the subject of discussions at the meeting of the
Consultative Group for Zaire held during June 1981. After a review of the Plan,
the participants decided to convene a meeting on agriculture in mid-1982, given
the importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as
coordination of policies and actions, both internally and externally. The
meeting was held from June 22 to 24, 1982. Shortly after the meeting of the
Consultative Group, Zaire negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of
maturities falling due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of
the already rescheduled maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, which
was contingent on compliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was
reduced from US$700 million to US$490 million. However, a number of factors --
especially the swift and serious deterioration of export markets (see below) --
prevented the implementation of the latest rescheduling agreement.
Current Situation
16.     Although management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was thwarted due to a
combination of external and internal factors. According to preliminary



estimates, the weakness of the copper, cobalt and coffee .aerketa caused a
17 percent decline in merchandise exports in nompinal terms. X&rchandise imports
fell 13 percent short of the projections under the IMF program and were aboult 8
percent lower in real terms than t'ae level of 1980.  (:s a result. ir. March
1982, Zaire was able to purchase the equivalent of SDR US$106.9 million under
the compensatory financing facility of the IMY.) Zaire also experienced growing
difficulties in meeting its debt service obligations and began accumulating
arrears in the second semester of the year. Developments in the external sector
(a major source of government revenue) had a very negative lmpact on gover,aent
finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary discip:Lne, caused the
budgetary deficit and its banking-system financing to exceed the program  targets
for September 30 and December 31, 1981.  Conseqiently. Zaire uas not able to
purchase the third and fourth tranches under the IKF Program. However, tLhe
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year; the Government continued to
refine its Agricultural Action Plan; it reaffirmed its intention to improve the
management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining and mineraL marketing
companies, respectively); and it announced its intention to transfer the
ownership of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
17.     Copper and cobalt prices have further weakened in 1982, putting
additional strain on the resources of Zaire and exacerbating the short-termw
management problem.  The allocation of resources has suffered from this strain;
in particular, efforts to curtail expenditures have proven difficu lt or
insufficient to prevent the budgetary deficit from running at an annual rate
higher than last year. The outlook for the rest of the year remains difficult,
owing to the continued sluggishness of the commodity markets, and the debt
problem remains a serious constraint.  As the balance of payme.nts projections on
which both the IMF program and the July 1981 Paris Club debt rescheduling
agreement were based have proven to be optimistic, revised follow-up agreements
are indicated in both cases provided that Zaire demonstrates greater financial
discipline and a sustained commitment to the reforms initiated Li the last three
years. Bilateral discussions on the optimum timing for the next Parrs Club
meeting are currently taking place; and an IMF mission visited Zaire recently
in order to examine the evolution of the economic and fi iancial situation.
18.     Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture.  Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt.  Economic de velopments irn Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices   Adusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institution, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
While overcoming these difficulties will take time, through the cooperation of
the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bankz, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive decontrol  of the economty has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$650 million at
present).



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     From 1969 to the end of FY1982, IDA has approved 28 credits totaling
US$407 million for transport, agriculture, development finance company
operations, water supply, power and education projects. The Bank has also
extended grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100
million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided
for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an
offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the status of ongoing projectsl/.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RIVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first time,
provided an integrated view of implementation problems.  This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance,
particularly in the agricultural sector.
22.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292,
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271, and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE
Projects); Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply and
Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE
and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of the audit and completion
1/  Credits approved since March 31, 1982, are included in the totals in para.
19, and are for SOFIDE VI (DFC) (US$21.5 million); Second Cotton (US$11.3
million); Agricultural Technical Assistance (US$5 million); Water Supply
(Regideso) (US$18 million) and for Shaba Power Rehabilitation (US$19
million).



the Bank Group's impact on institution building had been mixed. SOFIDE was
evolving as an effective and competent institution, and the Office des Routes.
the highway agency, had been able to establish an effective administrative
set-up. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved as a result of
the first River Transport Project but did improve under a follow-up project;
implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing results, but financial results
of operations had improved.  All entities had encountered operating difficulties
beyond their control as the economy deteriorated, financial resources grew
scarcer and the problems besetting the investment environment were exacerbated
by Government's zairianization/radicalization measures.  Bank Group support to
SOFIDE and the OR is continuing under the Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects
(Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM
received assistance through a second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and
ONATRA will benefit from a recentUy approved Modernization Project.
23.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity to
create an implementation momentum caused delays. Economic conditions were also
a factor in slowing project programs in instances where government counterpart
funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit
624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow recovery from the
aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future
project implementation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by the
Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects. At the end of
1981, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was
less than 10 percent.
24.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the development
of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action
Plan (see para. 15 above) through improvement of agricultural policies, the
strengthening of agricultural institutions, the financing of projects designed
to increase the production of both foodcrops and industrial crops, and to
promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition,
further support will be considered for the energy sector.



9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
25.       Zaire's transport system is an interconnected network of rivers,
railways and roads linked at strategic points. The dominant element in the
transport system is the Zaire River and its tributaries which provide about
15,000 km of navigable waterways for relatively cheap water transport over
a large area. The rail system was developed to complement the river
network by bypassing non-navigable sections of rivers. Roads were built to
provide local access and feeders to the river/rail arteries. But, while
the function of Zaire's 145,000 km road network has generally been to
complement river and rail transport, it has become increasingly important
in supplying the urban centers with food from their agricultural
hinterland. Matadi, the only seaport, is in the Zaire River estuary, about
150 km from the Atlantic Ocean. Owing to Zaire's size, air transport plays
an important role in long-distance movement of passengers and high-value
freight. There are about 150 airfields and airstrips in Zaire of which 30
are served by local airlines. An international airport is located at
Kinshasa; the airports of Kisangani and Lubumbashi can also handle
wide-bodied aircraft. Two pipelines transport refined petroleum products
from Matadi to Kinshasa. While the basic infrastructure to meet current
transport demand is available for all modes, insufficient maintenance and
modernization over a prolonged period have resulted in aging, unreliable
equipment and facilities thereby reducing the quality of services and
increasing transport costs.
Sector Organization
26.       Three large parastatal agencies hold preeminent positions in the
transport sector: (i) the Office des Routes (OR), the national highways
agency under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), responsible for road
construction and maintenance; (ii) the Office National des Transports
(ONATRA), which provides transport services on the Zaire River and its
tributaries, rail services between Matadi and Kinshasa, and operates the
ports in the Zaire River estuary and most of the river ports in the
interior; and (iii) the Socift6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer ZaIrois (SNCZ)
which operates the 4,600 km of railway in the interior not under the
administration of ONATRA. In addition, five transport agencies or public
companies, all under the general control of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications, have the following functions: (i) R&gie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF) charged with maintaining navigational channels and
administering services on the navigable inland waterways except the Zaire
River estuary; (ii) R6gie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) responsible for
maintaining the Zaire River estuary navigational channels and providing
pilot services between Matadi and the ocean; (iii) Regie des Voies
Aeriennes which builds, maintains and operates airports; (iv) Air ZaIre,
the state-owned airline; and (v) Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the
national shipping company which operates five general cargo ships.



- 10 -
27.      The organizational structure of the transport sector is basically
sound and the size of its infrastructure generally adequate. However, the
effectiveness of the transport agencies in meeting demand is lunsatisfac-
tory. Both weak management and the country's difficult economic situation
have contributed significantly to the agencies' inability to perform their
tasks adequately. Overall, services have improved slightly over the past
two years, but considerably more improvement is needed if transport is to
support the country's economic recovery.
Transport Policy
28.       Transport has a key role in the recovery of Zaire's agricultural
and mining sectors. Road upgrading and proper maintenance are essential to
revive the stagnating agricultural sector. Similarly, improvements of the
efficiency of the rail/river system are a prerequisite for a viable mining
sector. In view of the constraints on the transport agencies, the
Government's strategy to improve the performance of the transport sector
comprises three elements: (i) investments which focus on the
rehabilitation and replacement of infrastructure; (ii) continued
strengthening of management, operations and training activities; and (iii)
concrete measures to alleviate the shortages of foreign and local funds
available to the sector. The Association agrees with this strategy which
constituted the thrust of the transport sector discussions at the June 1981
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris. The short- and medium-term Bank Group
assistance to the sector is being designed along the above lines.
29.       Zaire's current national plan (1981-83) allocates 27 percent of
total investments to transport, making it second to mining (31 percent) in
importance. Investments for rehabilitation to increase the rate of
utilization and thus the effective capacity of existing facilities
constitute the bulk of the plan. Replacement and modernization are
included only when existing facilities have become totally inadequate.
These elements of the plan are justified and are supported by current IDA
projects in the Highways, Railways and River Transport subsectors. The
Plan also includes some transport projects for which more in-depth
evaluation needs to be undertaken.   For the highway subsector, OR has
revised the investment plan in the light of resources likely to be
available. Moreover, OR will annually review its highway subsector plan
for the following five years and will furnish to the Association for its
comment any revisions in the plan by October 1 of each year. The
Government agreed to take the Association's comments into account in
adjusting its Public Investment Program (Sections 4.07(a) and (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Highways Subsector
30.       Zaire's road network comprises about 145,500 km of roads of which
2,360 km are paved, about 2,800 km are gravel, and the rest are earth
roads. Road density is low at 60 m/km2 or 5.4 km per 1,000 inhabitants;
the latter is above the average for the East African countries. The
network is adequate in length for current needs but is in poor condition.
It consists mainly of narrow, unengineered earth roads with pavement widths
ranging from 4 to 6 meters, bad drainage and deteriorated surface courses.



- 11 -
Despite the need for upgrading and construction, until more funds are
available, emphasis will have to be on better maintenance of existing
roads. The main road network comprises the national roads (20,700 km) and
priority regional roads (20,200 km). This network, of which less than 6
percent is paved, is the responsibility of the Office des Routes. The
remaining 104,000 km are the responsibility of local authorities.
Vehicle Fleet.
31.      Statistics on the vehicle fleet and traffic are scanty.  The most
recent estimates (1978) put the size of the fleet at 110,000 vehicles of
which about 50 percent were private cars; 24 percent Jeeps, Kombis and
pick-ups; 20 percent trucks; and 6 percent buses, trailers and other.
Because of the depressed state of the economy and the scarcity of foreign
exchange for the purchase of vehicles and spare parts, it is unlikely that
the fleet has grown much since 1978. The Office des Routes, which is
responsible for making traffic counts, has only conducted ad hoc counts
thus far; however, it intends to prepare and submit to the Association for
its comments a system of traffic counts and to begin systematic counts.
(Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
32.       Traffic volumes range up to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on the
most heavily trafficked sections of the network, e.g. the Kinshasa-Matadi
and Kinshasa-Kikwit roads, but most of the network carries between 10 and
50 vpd. Truck traffic predominates with between 60 and 90 percent of total
traffic. The 40,900 km of national and priority regional roads are
estimated to carry 96 percent of all traffic.
Administration
33.       The Office des Routes (OR), an operationally and financially
autonomous agency under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), is responsible
for the construction and maintenance of the main road network, about 8,00m
of bridges and 150 ferries. OR's management structure comprises a Board of
Directors, which decides policy matters, and a Managing Committee, which is
in charge of day-to-day management under an expatriate General Manager.  OR
is subdivided into four administrations and five technical departments,
with a total staff of 8,650 employees, of whom 250 are engineers and 40 are
high level technicians.   Faced with the problem of retaining qualified
local staff because of poor salaries, OR instituted a comprehensive
compensation package including transportation, medical assistance, a
commissary and schooling for dependents. After carrying out successful
pilot programs under the Third Highway Project, OR decentralized its
activities so that each of the country's eight regions now operates as a
miniature OR headed by a Zairian director assisted by a technical and an
administrative staff. This organizational set-up is justified and
reasonable given Zaire's size and diversity. OR, however, is under heavy
pressure to expand its activities both in terms of the length of the
network to be maintained and the volume of work to be undertaken. To
clarify the role of OR, the project includes a study of the administration
of Zaire's highway sector focusing on the scope of responsibilities to be
assigned to OR and on the appropriate organizational and management
structure.



- '2 x
Training
34.       As more qualified Zairian engineers have become available, the
number of expatriate experts has declined from 100 in 1974 to 60 in 1982,
and will drop to 54 during the period of Project implementation. Progress
in recruiting and training professional staff has been encouraging: it is
expected that with the continuation of training efforts, by the end of the
1980's, only a small group of expatriates will be needed in high level
positions and in the mechanical field. Since 1974, OR's training programs
in engineering, accounting, auditing, storekeeping and management, as well
as on-the-job training, have provided courses for about 1,000 employees
ranging from engineers and administrators to equipment operators and
mechanics. With the assistance of nine expatriate training experts, the
Project will help train an additional 2,000 employees, 260 ferry operators
and 50 Zairian instructors. OR's training efforts have been impeded by the
low educational level of trainees and a shortage of educational materials
and equipment. The first problem is being resolved through better
screening of trainees, and the second, by the increased availability of
equipment under the ongoing and proposed projects.
Equipment Management
35.      Equipment management is the responsibility of the Service de
Gestion du Materiel des Travaux Publics (SGMTP), a functionally and
financially independent agency within OR. SGMTP works through SGMTP/Roads
and SGMTP/Ferries and operates nine workshops for road maintenance
equipment, eleven ferry maintenance units and three shipyards.
Construction and Maintenance
36.       Construction is the responsibility of OR's New Construction
Department, which also carries out highway planning through its Economic
Unit. Minor construction projects are carried out by local contractors.
When no local contractor is available or prices tendered are uncompetitive,
OR carries out the work by force account. For large road construction
projects, OR employs contractors following suitable prequalification and
tendering procedures; contracts are let on a unit-price basis after
international competitive bidding. There are about ten foreign-owned
construction firms in Zaire, all locally registered. The few domestic
contractors lack experience, skilled staff, equipment and capital for major
road works and are thus limited to working as subcontractors for other
firms. The New Construction Department satisfactorily supervises minor
road works; for major works OR employs expatriate consultants.
37.       Maintenance of the roads, bridges and ferries is the task of 57
maintenance brigades and units which are attached to OR's regional
offices. Each brigade has its own staff and equipment (rented from SGMTP)
and is responsible for roads in a given geographic area. OR has made great
strides in improving maintenance operations since its establishment in
1971, when, due to a scarcity of equipment, spare parts, tools and trained
personnel, it had to contract this work to agricultural and industrial
enterprises and to private contractors. With help from the Bank Group
(under four highway projects) and other external sources, most of OR's



- 13 -
organizational difficulties have been overcome and nationwide
decentralization achieved. Despite the progress it has made, OR has been
hampered by unavailability of equipment, materials and skilled manpower.
The problem has been compounded by chronic shortages of spare parts and
fuel. Consequently, except for Bas Zaire, OR has not been able to follow a
well-defined maintenance program and most operations have been on an ad
hoc, emergency basis. Because of OR's limitations, maintenance and
rehabilitation programs under the Fourth Highway Project are confined to
routine and periodic maintenance and to the most urgent rehabilitation.
The ongoing Fourth Highway Project is contributing to resolution of many of
OR's problems, through the financing of spare parts and fuel.
38.       The proposed project will consolidate these achievements by
concentrating on OR's 40,900 km road network. Adequate countrywide routine
and periodic maintenance as well as rehabilitation will be stressed and
equipment availability rates will be improved. Specific quarterly targets
and indicators for these activities will be set (Section 3.04(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The second of two phases of
procurement for replacement of road equipment under the proposed project
will be conditional upon satisfactory achievement of agreed output targets
which were adopted at negotiations (Condition of Disbursement, Schedule 1,
para. 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       OR's operational autonomy was affected by a recently enacted law
that places OR's decentralized maintenance and improvement units at the
disposal of the regional and local authorities. This implied a serious
loss of autonomy for OR. The same threat was posed during appraisal of the
Fourth Highway Project and was resolved satisfactorily by amending
legislation. Interference with OR's day-to-day management decisions could
lead to a misallocation and diversion of resources, including salaries and
equipment. Additional legislation has been enacted (decret portant mesures
d'application) defining the limited circumstances under which local
authorities can call upon the services of OR, against payment for such
services. Given the importance of this issue, the legislation governing
OR's autonomy will not be changed without prior consultation with the
Association. Any change which materially and adversely affects the
carrying out of the Project would be a condition of default (Section
5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Financing
40.       Maintenance and rehabilitation are financed from the Government's
recurrent budget, a road fund which derives its revenues from a fuel tax,
and from external development agencies. Construction is financed from the
investment budget and by external development agencies which have provided
the largest share in recent years. From 1976 through 1978 actual
disbursements not only declined dramatically in real terms but were
significantly below approved budgets. From 1979 to 1980 payments were
adequate but have often been delayed. The erratic pattern of payments has
hurt OR's maintenance activities by necessitating frequent changes in the
work program and hindering work in progress. The payment record under the
investment budget has not improved; it has caused work stoppages on major
construction contracts with consequent cost escalation and litigation.



- 14 -
41.       Road-users contribute to Government revenues through import
duties and taxes on vehicles, spare parts, fuel and lubricants a-d through
vehicle registration and licensing fees.  The Government will review the
level and structure of road-user duties and taxes, with particular
attention to fuel, and discuss its proposals with the Association by
December 31, 1983 (Section 4.08(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government has decided to revise the mechanism of the Road
Fund established in the early 1970's and to increase the fuel taxes
allocated to it for the funding of OR's operations. Ir addition, by
December 31, 1984 the fuel tax will be progressively increased to a level
sufficient to cover, (with OR's other revenues), OR's recurrent
expenditures and a reasonable part of its investment requirements
Section 4.09(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be that a revised fuel tax shall
have been introduced and that a funding mechanism satisfactory to the
Association shall have been established for the purpose of financing OR's
road programs (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
42.       Since Zaire's independence in 1960, IDA has helped finance four
highway projects. The First (Credit 152-CK, US$6.0 million of 1969) was
designed to improve highway administration and management and to carry out
emergency maintenance and rehabilitation. The project was completed in
1976, four years after the original closing date. According to the Project
Performance Audit Report, only some of the expected results were achieved
because of the Government's lack of familiarity with Bank Group procedures
and because of the disorder then prevailing in Zaire. For lack of reliable
information, a reevaluated economic return (ER) was not calculated;
nevertheless, the project was instrumental in establishing OR as an
autonomous organization -- a significant achievement. The project was
cofinanced by UNDP.
43.       The Second Project (Credit 292-CK, US$19 mi4li'on o-f 1972) was to
help strengthen OR, train local staff and rehabilitate some 1,900 km of
roads. It was co-financed by UNDP, the US, France and Canada. The project
Completion Report concluded that 1,000 km of roads were rehabilitated to
the planned standards, 600 km to lower standards, and 300 km were deleted,
largely due to a shortage of Government funds and the nationalization of
contractors.  Performance of consultants under the project had, iln general,
been weak.   OR began to function as a viable organization, and despite
cost overruns, the reevaluated ER for the Project was satisfactory at 15
percent. The project was completed five years behind schedule. A
Performance Audit Report for the Second and Third Projects will be prepared
in due course.
44.       The aims of the Third Project (Credit 536-ZR, US$26 million of
1975) were to implement two regional pilot maintenance schemes, to
rehabilitate 600 km of roads and to continue the institution building of



- 15 -
OR, particularly by developing local expertise. The project, which was
completed two years after the original closing date, was co-financed by
Belgium, France and the UNDP. The Project Completion Report found that the
pilot regional schemes had been successfully carried out, and have served
as models for the present decentralized system.   Because of Zaire's
financial crisis, however, the rehabilitation and feasibility study
components were reduced. The technical assistance, equipment and ferry
components were completed satisfactorily. However, for lack of reliable
data, a reevaluation of the ER was not possible.   The Completion Report
concluded that OR's maintenance capacity had certainly improved, and that
improved ferry operations, not envisaged at appraisal, had greatly
contributed to the benefits of the project.
45.       The Fourth Project (Credit 916-ZR, US$26 million of 1979) is
proceeding satisfactorily, although with a year's delay in credit
effectiveness, because of delays in meeting the cross-effectiveness
provisions under co-financing arrangements. It is expected to be completed
by December 1982. The project, which is co-financed by EEC and eight
co-financiers, essentially continues previous efforts to improve OR's
administration and its maintenance and rehabilitation efforts. The major
achievements of these four projects is that the deterioration of the main
road network has been arrested; a viable road administration has been
established and an increasingly competent staff is being trained.
PART IV. - THE PROJECT
46.       A report entitled "'Republic of Zaire, Fifth Highway Project,
Staff Appraisal Report"', No. 3757a-ZR dated June 1, 1982 is being
distributed separately. A supplementary project data sheet is attached at
Annex III. The proposed project was identified in the course of
implementation of ongoing projects and appraised in June 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington from May 6 to 10, 1982. The Zairian
delegation was led by the Minister of Public Works.
Objectives
47.       The objectives of the proposed project are to provide more
efficient, cheaper and reliable connections between Zaire's principal
centers of economic activity and to stimulate development of the
agricultural sector by facilitating transport and marketing of agricultural
products. The immediate aims of the project are fourfold: (i) continue and
consolidate the country-wide road maintenance program begun under the
previous highway projects; (ii) prevent collapse of deteriorating sections
of the paved road network; (iii) preserve important river crossings; and
(iv) continue strengthening OR's maintenance capability.



16 -
Description
48.       The proposed project would support OR's 1983-85 work program 1/
and comprises: (i) continuation of the country-wide road maintenance/
rehabilitation program being carried out under the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project through:
(a) procurement of vehicles, spare parts, fuel and lubricants, materials
and radio equipment;
(b) technical assistance;
(ii) resurfacing and strengthening about 165 km of paved roads; (iii)
replacement of ferries and construction of ferry approaches; (iv)
reconstruction and reinforcement of bridges; (v) procurement of equipment
for the national soils laboratory; and (vi) studies of highway
administration and fuel pricing.
Road Maintenance/Rehabilitation Program
49.       The Office des Routes' 1983-85 work program includes maintenance
of paved roads, manual maintenance of earth and gravel roads, gravelling
and regravelling, grading and bridge and culvert maintenance. To carry.out
the above tasks, the proposed project will finance the following:
(a) Equipment Renewal. By mid-1982 OR will have received the equipment
and spare parts provided under the Fourth Highway Project, and, while
worn-out equipment needs to be replaced, the most urgent need is for
liaison vehicles to help monitor the mechanical and manual
maintenance operations.
(b) Spare Parts, Tools and Materials. This element includes spare parts,
mainly for road maintenance equipment acquired before 1981, as
equipment delivered under the Fourth Highway Project includes 15 per-
cent of its value in spare parts. It also includes replacement
motors, spare parts and tools for ferry maintenance. The principal
materials to be financed under the project are bitumen for
maintenance of paved roads and galvanized steel for drainage
structures.
(c) Fuel and Lubricants. The project will finance the foreign exchange
needed for fuel and lubricants used in rehabilitation work during
the three-year program.
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. In order to consolidate the
achievements already made in building an effective road administration,
the proposed project will finance 54 individually-hired experts
(compared with 60 experts currently employed by OR). Nine of the
experts will concentrate exclusively on training, which will be offered
1/ The ongoing Fourth Highway Project was intended to cover two and a half
years of Office des Routes' three-year (1979-81) road program;
implementation, however, was postponed to 1980-82 due to a one-year
delay in Credit effectiveness. The proposed project, therefore,
supports the 1983-85 road program.



- 17 -
to drivers, operators and mechanics needed urgently to operate and
maintain recently purchased equipment. Middle- and high-level staff
will attend courses in accounting, auditing, storekeeping and
management. Ferry captains, pilots and navigation specialists will
be trained in river navigation. Special attention will be given to
training about 50 Zairian instructors.
(e) Telex and Radio Equipment. Vast distances and a poor communications
network make it necessary that OR have its own communications system.
The proposed project will finance additional items such as telex
machines, generators and battery chargers.
Resurfacing Program
50.      OR has selected three important roads, sections of which, if not
resurfaced very soon, are likely to fail and require costly
reconstruction. The roads are: Kinshasa-Matadi (80 km out of a total
length of 350 km), connecting Zaire's only seaport with the capital;
Lubumbashi-Likasi (40 km out of 141 km) which joins the two most important
mining centers of the Shaba Region; and Mbuyi Maji-Mwene Ditu (45 km out of
130 km), which connects the center of the diamond producing area (Mbuyi
Maji) to the railway line at Mwene Ditu. These roads will be strengthened
and resurfaced to prolong their service life.
Ferries
51.      Ferries are an integral part of the road network given the many
rivers in Zaire. Under the proposed Project, SGMTP/Ferries will replace
nine 20-ton ferries which are at or beyond the end of their service life.
Ferry approaches at several important ferry crossings will also be built,
using imported pontoons.
Bridges
52.      The renewal of bridges is essential to the effectiveness of the
road network. The proposed Project includes the reconstruction of nine
bridges, and the reinforcement of four others. The 13 bridges to be
reconstructed or reinforced will be semi-permanent steel structures
(Bailey-Acrow type).
Soils Laboratory
53.      LNTP is the only institution in Zaire capable of providing
laboratory support for road design and construction. To aid it in this
task, the proposed Project provides for the replacement of old and worn-out
equipment, three field laboratories and a drilling set.
Project Cost and Financing
54.      The total cost of the three-year program is estimated, in 1982
prices, at US$121.1 million (US$114.0 million net of taxes and duties) with
a foreign exchange component of US$76.7 million. Cost estimates are given
in January 1982 prices. A quantity contingency of 10 percent has been
included for the resurfacing, ferry and bridge components. Price



- 18 -
contingencies are based on recent estimates of inflation rates as follows:
1982 - 8.5 percent; 1983-85 - 7.5 per cent.  The same percentages have been
used for both local and foreign costs under the assumption that the
differential inflation of the zaire will be compensated by exchange rate
adjustments.
55.      The US$76.7 million foreign exchange component of the project
cost will be financed by external donors; the Government will finance the
US$44.4 million equivalent of local costs. In addition to the proposed IDA
Credit equivalent to US$43.5 million, US$10.5 million equivalent is
available as follows: KfW (US$1.5 million equivalent); USAID (US$2.5
million); ODM (US$0.8 million equivalent); and ongoing technical assistance
(US$5.7 million equivalent). The African Development Fund has agreed, in
principle, to provide the equivalent of US$20.6 million for the project and
a further $2.1 million equivalent is potentially available from Belgium
following ongoing bilateral discussions.    An additional couidition of
effectiveness would be that the AfDF loan had been signed and executed.
Cross effectiveness with the AfDF loan is not required because AfDF is not
co-financing all project components. AfDF's current schedule calls for
submission of the proposed loan to its Board in October 1982, which is the
target date for effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 6.Q1(a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.      OR's recurrent costs under the program will total US$133.5 million
(including contingencies, taxes and duties). Together with the local
component of project costs, the Government's total contribution is
estimated at US$177.9 million. The Government will provide OR during
project implementation at a minimum the following amounts: 1983 - US$52.5
million; 1984 - US$59.9 million; and 1985 - US$65.5 million (Section
3.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the event of any
shortfall in these allocations, the Association and OR would exchange views
on modifications to be made to the work program, and disbursements for
spare parts, materials and fuel would be contingent upon the work program
being acceptable to the Association (Schedule 1, para. 4 (iv) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Borrower and the Association would
exchange views each year on the adequacy of budgetary allocations for the
coming year (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation, Monitoring and Procurement
57.      OR will be responsible for carrying out the project.  Routine and
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation will be carried out by OR's
maintenance brigades. Contractors, under the supervision of OR ergineers,
will undertake the resurfacing works. SGMTP/Ferries will build the nine
ferries at its shipyard in Bandundu. Civil works for the bridge abutments
and ferry approaches will be carried out by contractor or by OR by force
account in cases where contractors' bids are unresponsive. The sites of
ferry replacements, ferry approaches and bridges were agreed upon at
negotiations (Section 3.01(a)(ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The technical assistance experts will assist in the
development and execution of all programs and in the supervision of
contractors.



- 19 -
58.      The maintenance program will start in 1983 as an uninterrupted
continuation of the Fourth Highway Project. Paved road resurfacing and
related supervision by OR will start the first quarter of 1983 and take
about 30 months to complete. The ferry and bridge programs will be spread
over two years starting by the end of 1983. Procurement of equipment will
be in two phases, the second phase being contingent upon satisfactory
achievement of agreed output targets for the first phase (Condition of
disbursement - Schedule 1, para. 4, of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). OR will be required to maintain records of the costs of
specific tasks carried out by separate maintenance brigades (Section
3.04(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.      A work program will be established for each year of project
implementation. Agreement on the maintenance component for the first year
of the three-year program has been reached; the Government will submit to
the Association for its approval the proposed work programs for subsequent
years by October 1 of the preceeding year, and thereafter, the agreed work
program will not be modified without the Association's prior agreement
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.      The procurement procedures below will govern project elements
financed by IDA. Equipment (US$3.3 million equivalent, before
contingencies) will be grouped into suitable lots and procured under
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Spare parts, shipyard tools, materials for road rehabilitation
and for ferry construction, radio and telex equipment, and laboratory
equipment (US$22.4 million, without contingencies), will be procured
through ICB for those items that can be combined in lots exceeding
US$100,000. Other items will be procured under limited international
tendering or directly from the dealer or manufacturer. Fuel and lubricants
(US$16.7 million, excluding contingencies) will be bought from fuel
distributors at the official price, which is standard practice in Zaire and
is being successfully done under the Fourth Highway Project. Technical
assistance experts financed by IDA (US$7.5 million, excluding
contingencies) will be engaged through renewal of contracts with experts
already working under the ongoing Credit or the recruitment of new experts,
at an average cost of US$9,500 per man/month. Terms and conditions of
their contracts would be satisfactory to the Association and in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Where ICB procedures are used: (i)
domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preference of 15 percent, or the
existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign supplies; and (ii) qualified domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7 1/2
percent over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
61.      Award of contracts for paved road resurfacing (US$16.5 million
excluding contingencies) co-financed by IDA will be subject to ICB in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Particular preference will be given
to contractors with experience in areas with similar conditions. For
bidding purposes the 80 km to be resurfaced on the Kinshasa-Matadi road
will be divided into two sections with bidders allowed to bid for one or
both sections. Works on the Mbuyi Maji-Mwene Ditu and Lubumbashi-Likasi



- 20 -
roads will each be packaged as a single lot.  A condition of disbursement
for the resurfacing component would be that additional co-financing has
been made available (Schedule l, para. (iii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
62.      Because the construction sites of ferry approaches and bridge
abutments (US$1.8 million, excluding contingencies) are widely dispersed
throughout Zaire and contract costs are estimated at US$150,000, it is
unlikely that foreign contractors will show interest in the works. They
will, therefore, be procured following local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Where no responsive bids are obtained, OR
will carry out the work itself after approval by the Association, and
disbursements would be made, against satisfactory documentation, for the
purchase of construction materials following local limited tendering
procedures satisfactory to the Association (Schedule 3, para. (D)(3) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Studies
63.      The project includes two studies, at a total cost of about
US$300,000, to be carried out by consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association,
in accordance with Bank guidelines. The first study will focus on the
highway sector and its administration (organization, management and
operations) and the second would focus on the real cost of fuel as basis
for fuel pricing policy.
Disbursements
64.      Credit funds would be disbursed as follows: 100 percent of foreign
cost (CIF) of directly imported equipment, materials, spare parts, and
shipyard tools, fuel and lubricants; 70 percent of the cost of road
resurfacing works; civil works for ferry approaches and bridge abutments:
65 percent of the cost for work carried out by contractors or 80 percent of
the cost of locally purchased materials for work carried out by OR; and for
expert services 100 percent of the foreign cost for foreign experts and 80
percent of total cost for local experts. All disbursements would be fully
documented.
Auditing
65.      OR is a public sector enterprise and as such it is required to
prepare accounts according to the Zairian general commercial accounting
plan. The Fourth Highway Project requires that an independent auditor
audit OR's accounts. His first report indicates that OR's accounting
system and controls are generally adequate. The requirement for an
independent audit will be continued (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Benefits and Justification
66.      The maintenance/rehabilitation component will concentrate on the
basic network of 40,900 km thereby maximizing the productivity of the
available equipment and manpower. Moreover, the program ensures that the
maintenance needs of that part of the network which carries over 95 per-
cent of total traffic can be met. Even though it does not include feeder
roads as such, this network facilitates the integration of the rural
economy into the modern economy by ensuring all-weather access from the
economic centers to the rural areas and vice versa. The rate of return of
the entire maintenance/rehabilitation program is conservatively estimated
at 48 percent.
67.      The resurfacing of paved roads will have a direct impact on the
areas in which they are located. All three roads to be resurfaced play a
vital role in the three most important economic areas of the country. The
project will help to prevent their closure, which would lead to the
economic collapse of these areas.  Resurfacing the deteriorating roads will
also reduce vehicle operating costs. The rate of return of this component
is estimated at 66 percent.
68.      The ferries and bridges included for replacement under the
proposed project are dispersed throughout the network and the closing of
any one would result in a considerable disruption of traffic. For both
ferries and bridges the benefits of replacement were considered as the
vehicle operating cost savings obtained from avoiding traffic detours.
Included in calculations of the economic return of the ferry program
are the benefits from construction of ferry approaches (reductions in ferry
repair and ferry down time) and spares, materials and tools for ferry
repair and maintenance (savings from detours should ferries be out of
service for lack of spares). The economic return for the ferry component
is estimated at 79 percent and that for the bridge component at more than
100 percent. For the project as a whole, the economic return for 92 per-
cent of project costs is over 55 percent.
Sensitivity Analyses
69.      Benefits would be influenced by (i) lower than projected traffic,
and (ii) by a reduction in unit vehicle operating costs due to improvements
in the supply of vehicles, spares and ancillary services. These two
factors, however, are unlikely to act together as a reduction in vehicle
operating costs would stimulate traffic. The various sensitivity analyses
show that with a 20 percent reduction in base year traffic, the rates of
return for the various components would range from 33 percent to over
100 percent. Where construction is involved (resurfacing, bridge and ferry
construction), a 20 percent cost increase still yields rates of return of
between 44 percent to over 100 percent. For road and ferry maintenance and
rehabilitation, project implementation could be delayed by insufficient
local funds or by delays in completing co-financing arrangements, leading
to a reduction in the road network (or ferries) being maintained in the
project period.  Assuming a 40 percent reduction in maintenance output, the
rate of return would be 17 percent for the road component and 52 percent
for the ferry component.



- 22 -
Risks
70.      The risks associated with the proposed project fall into three
categories:   institution-building, local funds and external funds.
71.      Institution-building.  Two factors are critical to OR's
effectiveness as an organization: (i) OR needs a well qualified, motivated
staff. To help improve the qualifications of staff the proposed Project
will help finance technical assistance and equipment for training
activities. For OR to keep its staff motivated it must be able to pay
adequate salaries and pay them regularly.  To avoid the problems of late
payment of salaries, the Government will be expected to provide an adequate
and regular flow of funds to OR;  (ii) OR's operational autonomy, which was
affected by recent legislation, has been protected by a decree defining the
limited conditions under which local authorities can call upon the services
of OR (see para. 39).
72.      Local Funds.  Insufficient budgetary allocations have frequently
forced OR to interrupt or delay construction work, hampered maintenance
operations, and reduced availability and utilization of equipment. The
following three measures will help to reduce the risk of insufficient
funds: (i) the Government has agreed to make minimum contributions to OR's
recurrent and investment budgets during the three-year project (para. 56);
(ii) a revised tax will be introduced for the funding of OR's road
programs, and by December 31, 1984, the fuel tax will be set at a level
that together with OR's other revenues, meets OR's recurrent expenditures
and a reasonable portion of its investment requirements; (Section 4.09(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (iii) in the event the
Government does not provide OR with funds at the agreed level, the
Association and OR would review and, if needed, revise OR's work program.
Disbursements for spare parts, materials and fuel would be contingent upon
the work program being acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01(e) and
Schedule 1, para. 4 (iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
73.      External funds.  Chronic shortages of foreign exchange have
prevented OR from obtaining all the spare parts, materials and fuel it
needs to carry out its operations. In order that shortages of these items
do not impede the execution of the three-year maintenance and
rehabilitation program, the Association and other co-donors will finance
100 percent of the foreign exchange needed for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 23 -
75.      Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (i) that
the the African Development Fund loan had been signed and executed (para.
55); and (ii) introduction of a revised fuel tax and the establishment of a
mechanism satisfactory to the Association for the financing of OR's road
programs (para 41). Conditions of disbursement would be: for the second
tranche of equipment procurement, that agreed output targets had been met
(para. 58); and for spare parts, fuel and lubricants, that any modification
of the work program had been approved by the Association (para. 56).
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



24-                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TAALE- IA
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAD SQ. KA.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2345.4                                MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    310.0              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (0Us$                100.0        170.0     260.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(YILORAS OF CODAL EQUVALENT)       97.6       105.4    102.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPUL4TION AND VITAL STAI'ISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0    21638.0  27509.0
U6AhN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7       21.6      32.7                  17.5                  27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PEE SQ. KK.                       7.6         9.2      11.7                 z7.1                   55.0
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    58.0        69.0      86.,                 73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                        44.1        44.3                           44.8                   46.0
15-64 YES.                        52.9        52.9      52.6                 52.4                   51. 2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.8       _.7                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.0       2.7                  2.6                    2.8
UR AN                              ..         5.2       7.3                  6.5                    5.1
CRUJE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.1        47.1      45.9                 46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOLSAND)    24.2        21.3      18.1                 19.3                   15.8
GiOSS REPEODUCTION RATE             3.0         3.0       3.0                  3.1                    3.2
FAhILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOIS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
IN=  OF row PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        101.0       101.0      88.0                 89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 100.0       101.0     104.0                 90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)          36.0        37.0      36.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        13.0      10.0                 17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    35.7        31.6      25.4                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        42.9      46.8                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..
AGCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        11.0      16.0                 23.9                   27.4
URBAN                              ..        33.0      43.0                 55.0                   74.3
&ULAL                              ..         4.0       5.0                 18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0      22.0                 26.2
URBAN                              ..         5.0      67.0                 63.5
RURAL                              ..         5.0       6.0                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        37621.6    29300.8  15529.3                31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3511.7      5067.3   1938.0                3674.9                 2898.6
POPUI,ATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           230.9       320.0    339.0                1238.8                 1028.4
UL AN                            57.2        96.8     145.0                272.8                  423.0
SUiAL                           770.5      1066.7   2622.5                1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         6.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0
AVERAG NUMBER OF PERSONS PER Rk"M
TOTAL                              ..          ..
M                                  ..          ..        ...
IURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
zAlI"_U_!ZL INDICATORS DATA SU15?
ZAIRE                        REFERNCE GDRUPS (WEIGHTED ANRACES
-  DST RECZNT ESTINATKI)
lDST RECENT          LOW INCOKE             MIDDLE INCOM
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTH OF SAARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT IRATIOS
PRIMARY,    TOTAL                60.0        88.0     90.0                 56.4                   73.7
MALE                88.0       110.0    103.0                 70.7                   9f.8
FEMALE              32.0        65.0      77.0                50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 3.0         9.0     19.0                 10.0                   16.2
MALE                 4.0        13.0      23.0                13.6                   25.3
FEMALE              - 1.0        4.0      14.0                 6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 27.0        10.0      13.0                 8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          40.0        43.0       ..                 46.5                  36.2
SECONDARY                        20.0        20.0     27.0                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      31.0/c      13.0      15.0                25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
'POPULATION                       3.0         3.0       3.6                 2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         2.9      4.8                 32.8                  69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..        0.3       0.3                  1.9                   8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 1.0         9.2      1.8                  2.8                  20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1        0.1      0.1                  1.2                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8215.5      9464.8  11395.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 46.4       44.5      42.8                 34.1                  36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            83.0        79.0     75.4                 B0.0                  56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                9.0        11.0     12.8                  8.6                  17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              46.3        43.7     41.4                 41.7                  37.2
MALE                               51.9       49.8      48.2                 54.3                  47.1
FEMALE                             41.2        36.0     34.8                 29.2                  27.5
ECONOmIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         1.1      1.1                  1.2                   1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCKIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..                136.0                 381.2
RURAL                              ..         ..      80.0                 84.5                 156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..      76.0                 99.1                 334.3
RURAL                              ..         ..      43.0                 61.2                 137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                 39.7
RURAL                              ..         ..      80.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for ech indicator are population-alahted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unleas otherwiLe noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estixate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  1962.
May, 1981



9(D.6                                                                  ANNEX  I
PFage 3 of 5
DEPINCTTIIS LWF SOC111.L IDICATIR$
ff-hes Auih-ogh redata  r   uotrh .o.r.s enrlly judgat the  hetaa tatsad rs2tra    c   -scud aLsoA  stto                                                 a7yOe7 rutb    tr--
-aio-al>  -op-brtecu- o.s. la-k tf enandardi-s  d.flnfruon   and  -unops   sad by diff rn  corle-ocolcIn    b -utnn.  thlle-fr   r,rtr
rhalase. . ~tanu   u  ea   ectto             arnd.idr-tt  tred-. nod Oiatcrte  eiana1-tdltrnaa  erose  -cot,nt-
The  eeec    ru.  r               htsa  Co-ntry groc; at  -h  subject co-nty s-   2) a  ontygoa                      tb cnh .  t.  hitra -Arng    ehose th-re th  danvitn  gra
o  the sub' ect contry   mercy  f-cr  Cpital Surplus  iat Errorters   grou  ehere  4ijdt>  1o-     rrIt Atics=n  dUl *  ut   aciaa   toan0   trnt
aJ-etty oticunre totgapeaotro   htoncto.                                      irshit  -t,cr9   oftstre    artn                  i-aet... d.,-o  cm  t-, arilsbilLty at dan
soI'    ctutrs ceares    eeriad    ielaagaesg"oIoelplatrrnotr. t-acrnesaonrca.'.ctaoes-agbsiteaal
on  Irdlc-iu.a  soa..rr..r-...trec...tee.re..c-ite
LANDREA  t-hou....s..  Ma.                                                                            Ppctci   eeioputl -         e       a       Nap>rro-1W                 teInvl
Toal     'll, erat   re   itp tlt   v  ae  aro  u-eb.ser.rla. cod ra-el  dtrtt     by tnt-o  r nuyor-ro  tueccr  y-1C  nords
natiu-aa ..  ..t. ac   atugtcl a  a.rea use     t.soa fly or. penae -l                              Uoial   optlcaopiaeyors   aeufalad                                  tytlade-
fo    rra    atre   tretaL,roctgrun   rtoIetllu    1ria-sl(ttooes-a    yrcps  o   eaiLiss   aeclyaet
--          $1 - 19?yrr an7 nr  ear -   iane W ah correut seoket  Itae     -a-dh-ae  r   oruloe- frly   ye!naar    aL                                                          a
1970. and 1979 fart-                                                                                   seiosi.. asid--i,  acs  aZef                 .) tOo~ sIa   i-Z       net_ae
fenton  and grand.   l tiue-  -natg  tO  niatl    niltt-le    fee satiat-
tŽNttcY CONtNT0-PacPIa-ucilctsntralcssotleeey ca                                                          tts   veoetra    eyiaeftC                       tynftllgitl,amae
nrhn-ny  to bll-gean   of cm.leucani  pe  crha                961. 1971. erd 1579                        ani. Iabledbqtl    s  itnie  army adamvenl.
nana.                                                                                                u,lslstr-  Per doaulia-   Tet.-            nbitt!stluls   oe  dteod-ta
frobehtl   nildn   by      -h.evir of made
OPULLATION fND VITAL StdTAT~IMC
Xae    uoali    id-herrhoa-   a  -a   f laIr 1;196C, 1.977, etC  -Qc)                   HDdflftf
1ftfeee -t     ottn   of1,11.   aar  oro-   say effeIct  oparatr1itry of dat                         and tertt   ei    0  cndrarIgesy    -y  -tr he Lat 'dS  I.,
aaaarne; 19b0, 197 -.ap  I9Qtf uan-                                                          i h..os.iftt  sa.etea   aenas
ioalttr In.yea  200C - ureC       pyatnpreiosae    sean1991,                                   Is    t P.r-.n Per eanC 11   h-, a. ab  r-ra  -a.aitd  -amne-ci
trg life enetenha  tunAh  r-ea...urgei  ootyaPer rspifts. on                                     uss  a     czt itnp  Iarret-  et deI- ee      otl   5b1
lee.sf  eseItf  enr-rnonei  echtbiiang en 77.5 yers.  7he para-                         Crratirol   ealti   itedhusatt i   innn   wret   r  ersii
ener  ic-etlt    as  latr   hs  Irl   sa gfeit   no   aa, urban, eel  -oon1 d-eltna6  repgn aty-1.
i- ifitty aurfgicuotea                    o    atfirly p-s-in   p-ro-sns-
Lat-  -usnty te then n-nimn   hi  of rhia  nine  -obisatirna it  -annallty                    fliCA&TlON
all ferniity trasdu pceri.p.p.e.~4se   coE-1-n  antic
Srct   ar    csa tir   -tou  netan Iypoultice  ther  in ne                 -trnhecto                 Primary aubool-me,saetdaal-  onact                              Ows tda
he bireh rate is equa1 it th. fanh rare, sad also  the  g  arutr i- -                                 -nenln-   at all aas  a  ni                "`tr ln   at-teta,ga   .1   -      ti-
sainsoct,e.nt.  -hite in achiep..d ppy after fentialitiansdnhn   cn                                  prtary  -hobnat ' -grpylta;aisly Isldea  eildee aged 6-il
nte repareano   leite  of unt net  sprcguita  rate   -e ah gs-sr.r tan                    y.... bus adn-ed  On- dtff-tsa   Isagrth  at yei-aey  stat Ei
cissrr;as iL      ,fetny    The  -rair..ay eapulati-hen  teecastrias srthuerai   -scatt   etL-at  nay ss-d ifiits,
naIinnted  -t the tacta of the  . prj-ttd orrtrero               f she poalncnslt   ...a poU    ra bel1- nr sh-e  nba eff                                    l aobcns  aWo.
hr ith  year 2000, anrha pe-  ~f d-ilut  of ferility  .rat  to replet-                              andrsbal-  tril. aasndtas-Iesa   -  Ba -;  -aares
cer  ta Itrypiouatu   a  raced-The yeer ehat  -t-acuay papol-ir-                                   rrue    erd   catlna.  ertrbrtaee    gntnesrn5uiti
tr-l are; 60l, 1911 au   979 dat.-                                                                   inaloda e.     eot  itidntrenal  -r atbar pe-arn  'eitib   epocrn 
Per e.  n.   a roatrs   ad - Canponed as nbava ror ratnrrl  aaaty  ea   aareasa  arnayitetrd
o-lp; 1960. 197u19790 9le..                                                                          ?nt-rah-ret   -cr-inen  ai=dacf  -Ttlaenta airld in
Poptlatae Ae terururs  retOenl - Cildre-  Il-lu  peera I. nerkleg-age                          prinsr  and  eri -dryleel  dit-adb  seeac  attabsr   e
he, yape,  n  -tipel Ith yanin. an  uveof a  retatneia  atd-panpr-irea-ntn   sa
tain;161.01971, ad 1979 at-                                                                      Mu'ir literary  eta  (-eier-    - Ltanrsta  MaesCbin an e               -d    z -ise)
Pnrul.i-n iroe              .,tun    (reet-rana  - Ah n..l grnnth ...a. ad  atal aid-                     asprsag uf tntal  -,:.lt yrit,lait1a egd 11  euse aedane
pea  pnpuI.iaeta   ts-  iIC-h, ithi-li, and 1971-7 9.
Parlat G ranib ten   reo-t ~- -rhan - Annul g-rth tense  rtabar Pnpc-                              ClftiUiteTI
lattri  fo  11c-t  1960-I. ed1970-79                                                                 ....aea . esInrtrse    scnntu       sser  or- *o'n-uon
Crude tarth  tun   (e  ihoed) - Ousa  live. bdrnhe per thr..sand cot itd-yea.aastn.ls    iaagr                                            pcsn    oldaa                               -AnLee,  eea 
pn poietuan; 1960, 191,ad 1.979 dana-                                                                 ilhiartyrsbhiea-
CrudeD  thR. ant  f;re  ith ...nd) - gAn.al fId-ha   -  th-u-utle  ci d-yesr                         Radii.aeiasadlabutl  guut-                    l      l  rpsatrnanr  twidi
npatiac; 1960,  .70,ad1979dlen.                                                                   bradatae  g-eesl pbail.e  rha-sae  ofpaalitelneeunen
lires_ erroato to  ;tun-org   nu rf daunniera samntill. tear en                                         iussadcaetnra .-stnra  se  in fi-r  shed ae-a. tearei   ef sa
t.tayrte     -oaaly fir-yearanrags  ndtg                    990, 1971, and i'979'                     Zetaarre    ileadiatle
fa"ty,Paeta-t   trrr.  Aaruel leicu-edel - Anas-I nube   l  cepsf          a                   R..israIriy        hosrrenlcto)-TV  rtil-ar  fa- hrad                      a
Pemily PIla..itg  U-ls       Irrn  cIf nare   tai  - Perennge of srrned                                te a-rrisa sir"In y Tar  fest  eiartto              f I?- ers.   is tita.
eli  arnd a..e..i. ...e .gr-goo.                                                                   Auiacieo   'daily gaura  ittOtn  at.a"pa               daidimsu    palidal~
pubbiosclo  ls td primrly ta r_asrdim   ge-no    -                 Ita is ae-ef-de
FOCI AND 900tI7Ilh                                                                                       ta be  daily'  it it nnpaana  -t ir-   fe-te ine s snu
ndee of  -,io epudn-totc  e  Capitta  c1h6  tlAPiC'   1-- hne   I-prvnhiana                           la    A -,na   a-ciastu    c    ai.Pa7-h bsdateiaea
prodctin  ofallfnod catre            Prodotn   eiudeesed  eu.d ftrd sod                         tiobi  al  cut        rth   un  i-olad        anieton            detr-tet cit-
it a  osearyat  basis.   Co-edite   toe  pts                 ndelg   su.a...n                      and sabils  cos
instead of.... suar   .,hc  r  edIble tod ---nal uutnitaalg   roife  end
tea en   e  ue)     grgt   -rdootan. of  -sr -aanty in be...  un                                LABOR EiCi
iisaaaaeprodun    pisegt;1961-hI, 1.971, ned t979 data.                                  Tcrel La-bor PIu   tosna      annaailyerr    aen,lne
teesyer  sAtiaa    yfchee    ipyilgoa                       strcra  aria- -Itebingd  as -                  -brcsnt9ge i970 tota  la9on  frco197t90                    97-ud
-dyan   ein   rnhafe dtgetptenateprtr,nyosbt agInurylnuti-1he ..ere. Ccc Man,oreniru    t lc   fe
toetadlee;  htd~    ,a tFiO  ao,d  phyfdei.                                                1977-,  -  I  tand.I     1979 data.6.  97   -    179"t
afer  :: daria teno  ofi orofl  laa  pn  fd 1 -Poietn1  con-an  of-  per. rali                     artcoatetn   rren Iae.mae   b   as-Pceeets
nat  uppl  at  oaltee  sp    in "P"1  it  ford ta defiad as shpe    e-                      a-rlrtyeasss         ,mas  a  tnr.t  tale  sAd  -ai   1eber  .terras
qatneneir  for all  -ounfi-s nenaliahad by USDA pera,de fan siutmu                                 p rcrga. at is-ul  sale and feeLs praLmtlen  fO oil  -ds  symrny
alnene  ICgneonoaprnnnlo. rercyanoldg2 aatotantniarcI960. 1971, asd19l9tdata.  Thaenseudutl'e-niaart-ric
puleepronti, o  thlt 10graehoald he  -hisa  proesir.  These .. ead-                        rtflaoitis-tsea   tarnaa a  ab-iunlo                   at  og niwn  rti-d.  a
arda ae lone  thanthoen of  5 insl   of toa      roenad 23 tita   ft                         fe    etete    r  from  eatosal suons-
anialprtercasararrae  arth sr ld, or              .ad by FlO tih the ThIrd               te-oia fltedetanc  -  at   f Punoioui.a- itdr  f  ccd e1sue An
useidl,d tur  fary; 1961-90. 1970 aol :977 dent..n t. he n.raI labrr  or
Pe   ate  rna   -00-  ea   ns"    atrls-          Pro-rt  -opply rt toad de-
rbred -tta  anneals and P"        in grat  per  ao199 1-95, 1970 and 1977 onta.               InicO   DISTtRiB'ffIOf
Child Isses i-t  ft.ralty tn   1cm  niao) - Manul deehs per th-oaad it                                 eretsof Pnrst  lora'iFI uEadnn) - Onn-a  by    che
555 grip  1-A  yars, inrnlld-s  in Ibis ace  rop; foe nea  fer-1ptoie 00r                        enat     -ibe  1   aca.  pitr7  t  ua,tolpeea  tcpi
ti-rr  faaa J-dtod fr-  1~lf   abe;I90.17  and 1979 dase-                                            c   oshl
Lif  p-reo -ny anitrh (peers) -  rertee -b nai            ...o yers of ift   enor                   e  nbso    aosneaacn  appr,ii--nr-toeorn  nOpt-etryIo-ttl,
nihrh 91.1977 tod 109un.ed aad he tr-,ry-nd sinkll                                                                                  ldrre    aln
niag  prfesnd lire biteha.                                                                           Abholr  paatyi leae  l-ue  is th-  inaelen  biln   Ma-h   aret
aseta te.faist-  lenre-n t   ocliic toi,tsiaders-  m-orntaly edeq_an  dies yPI_ .  eso                                                                      _A-edepintoaI   o
her ofpe-l    us,ubn   r   oa)et  reeotblaoeateieaffrd.ale
-dates sorb ascartc   poenn             aoehle  spina  anr.td acnaytll)atct:Relno.                                      ntrI ton   irSbenaelda   rti   'anyn
tnncno   nrptentacrd          ternah-   2). a-ereps trobnIa!hruae- say be                   0                                 0
leve  str. odjoai-t  f- hIgher peef loic-g La -resara
-anided  asegagnihn  eeanbraca   fia   ce                             nue    ra                    E-i-a d P.srttlano   mite oaibooc;  Ereti   omsL-O   naap
fatily'. aean- -eeta
huaeopnpl(oriohc,snr-aler-dvecntc                                       :psao
the   ollut cn ad dorcel. utt  r otttoh  laattct.cc vtatsorah-.oreI  a-d tcaalDen  lirntt
ilao  "t,allattun  --M
ulat. qualifoed Iran a a-urc-  tahuol a           vriy    tl
Poruatlon ter nuretu  Pe-ea-  - Pyuno   fte    yota   cpett 
nslendfeale  nadote curtepnacucacuisn,andescnaothrcsa



- 27-                                             ANNEX I
Page 4of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(mili1onUuss st      Share of CDP at Market Prices   )         Annual Growth Rates   )
current prices)               (at current prices)              (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                            1980                     1978        1979       1980
Gross Domstic Product/            5,948.0                          100.0                     -5.3        0.3        2.4
(GDP Comercialized)              (4,749.7)                         -                       (-6.3)       (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                     1,760.4                           29.6                     0.0         3.1        2.3
Industry                       1,408.7                            23.7                    -8.6        -6.4        4.3
Services                       2,563.4                            43.1                    -5.1         4.7        4.5
Consumption                       4,456.5                           74.9                   -12 02       -3,2        3.9
Gross Investment                  1,241.5                           20.9                   -52.0        43.5       37.2
Exports of GNFS                   2,154.4                           36.2                    27.0       -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNFS                  1,904.4                            32.0                   -21.8        -6.7      -5.1
Gross natioual savings            1,502.0                           25.3                     8.7         6.0        0
PUBLIC FINANCE 3/ (Cantral Government)                 (milli    )                         Z of GDP
(ilon  )                           oGD
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977        1978          1979            1977     11979
Current revenues                             731.0       1,930.0       3,738.6          13.3        22.4
Current ependitures                        1,145,2       2,171.0       3,456.5          20.9        20.8
Current deficit                             -414.2        -241.0         282.1          -7.6         1.7
Capital expenditures                         113.8         129.0         246.4           2.1         1.5
Overall deficit                             -528.0        -370.0         35.7           -9.6         0.2
MONEYT, CREDIT AND PRICES                                 1978             1979               1980
(million E outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    1,854.5          2,084.9            3,367.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             1,578.3          2,062.2            2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              641.0            878.7             1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)         33.8             18.8                20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 . 100)A/                        453.4            912.7            1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                      48.5            101.3               46.7
Bank Credit to Publie Sector                                49.6             30.7               13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               20.1             37.1               15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered,
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
-28 -                            Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                     1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4       1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                     1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6       1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                        38.8          67.6       133.3
Current Account Balance                             -82.8          14.9         0.5
Public Capital (net)                                122.7         -49.6        23.8
Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4        -220.4      -278.5
SDR Allocation                                        -            20.4        20.6
Other Financingl/                                   405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves (- , increase)           -75.5         -62.5       -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                          9 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                        9 1.00 = SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                          9 1.00 = SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                      Z 1.00 = SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                   U3S$ 1.00 = 9 0.836
1979                                                   US$ 1.00 = Z 1.729
1980                                                   US$ 1.00 = 9 2.800
1981                                                   US$ 1.00 = Z 5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)           million US$      %
Minerals and Petroleum                 1,536.6      78.7
Others                                   417.0      21.3
Total                                1,953.6    100.0
2/                   (ilo  3$
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1981-                      (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                         4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                           350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                         4,525.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980- 3_
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                       US$ million
(As of March 31, 1982)-                IBRD    IDA
Outstandtng & Disbursed               84.18    192.37
Undisbursed                            0        139.93
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed        84.18    332.30
1/ Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/ These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ million
Number       Year      Borrower                    Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport        91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                          100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                    119.50      0.79 31
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       1.80
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00       9.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00       3.61
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00       3.05
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                   10.00        .38
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00       8.37
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00      19.23
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00      14.31
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      16.01
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00       9.94
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          26.40      24.30
1152       1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                 2.90       2.90
Technical Assistance
1180 4/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        26.00       26.00
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58        332.30          93
- of which has been repaid                     110.95          0.47
Total uow outstanding:                           80.63       331.83    :139.93
11 Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, and Credit 272-CK, originally
US$6.5 million, have closed with undisbursed balances of US$80,000 and-
about US$480,000 respectively which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has
several withdrawal applications pending which, when paid, will leave a
balance of about US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed March 10, 1982, but is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
- 30 -
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 80.63      331.83
Total Undisbursed:                                 0.0                  139.93
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
U
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year        Obligor               Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1970         Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC             -     0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -           2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -           1.61
Total gross commitments                 4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                               0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                             3.28  0.76    4.04
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
nrniprt PxpNrntinn.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
- 31 -
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway.
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's finanicial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment for five neew
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out. However,,
because project costs have increased so markedly and given lack of implementation
capacity, the Association has recently notified the Government that the Closing
Date will not be postponed.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the campaign which began in
December 1981.  The sale of textile stocks has stagnated, however, owing to a
dramatic increase in the import of used clothing. The Government is exploring
appropriate measures to reduce the impact of the sales decline which has created
a severe, liquidity problem for the cotton companies. These measures form part
of the Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project.



ANNEX II
-32-                          Page 4 of 7
Credit 697-ZR           Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Miniistry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provisioni of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid.  Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include;(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets.
Credit 710-ZR          Fourth DFC; USS10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.  In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
- 33-
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
r                                31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and train4ng of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills. The second company has placed
equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting and oil
mill rehabilitation program.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. Technical progress of project implementation has been
satisfactory.



AN'NEX II
Page 6 of 7
- 34 -
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: Jul.y 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness.  Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. Decentralized maintenance operations are being carried out
effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and are serving as models for other
areas.
Credit 998-ZR          Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of March 31, 1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1.5 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly in the
latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval of sub-projects
and the placement of orders.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development 'IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming syste9s in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annu-m and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, traini,ng and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructujre; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems,



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
- 35 -
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and procurement is well advanced. Foreign exchange allocations
to the Compagnie Sucriere (implementing agency) for operation and maintenance
have been below the agreed level; Government has been informed and has indicated
that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2r9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Terminal Date for Effectiveness:
postponed to June 23, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1983,
The Credit was declared effective on July 7, 1982.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project:  US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness:
Originally July 9, 1982, was postponed to December 31, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
This Credit is not yet in effect.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 36 -
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
ZAIRE
Fifth Highway Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:         1980/81 in the course of implementation
of the Fourth Project
(b)  Project Preparation:   1980/81
(c)  Appraisal Mission  :  June 1981
(d)  Negotiations        :  May 6 to 10, 1982
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:  October 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   The Borrower shall prepare a five-year highway sub-sector
plan, to be updated annually and sent to IDA for review prior
to its inclusion in the Public Investment Program (para. 29);
(b)   The Borrower shall review road-user taxes and duties, and set
fuel taxes at a level which, by the end of 1984, together
with OR's other revenue, will meet OR's recurrent
expenditures and a reasonable portion of its investment
requirements (para. 41);
(c)   The Borrower shall provide OR with specified amounts for each
year of the program covered by the Project (para. 56)
(d)   The Borrower will prepare and send to the Association for its
review the annual work program of OR by October 1st before
the beginning of each such year's program; once reviewed,
such program may not be modified without the prior agreement
of the Association (para. 59);



- 37 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a)   signing of an agreement with the African Development Fund
(para. 55);
(b)   introduction of a revised tax on fuel and establishment of a
mechanism for the funding of OR (para. 41).
Condition of Disbursement:
With regard to the procurement of equipment, that the
procurement under a second phase would be contingent upon the
the satisfactory achievement by OR of agreed performance
indicators (para. 58); and



I
I



f                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15984
*1 . r S ~~~~~~~~~-  .  RL{                         Jf -t@f   1  RA,; 'J FE 'LBLI                                            S L, A J 
? , IvO|-tErITnnqrlJrf{J0rB&fD-            
/ VY X i ~~ ~ S f z sr [ f 4 a vrx r e v e r e e ee e r tn5r ~~> < _> aDG
'. C /:, fi U f _ X !; S L I | A / * _ __ \ we n n E x _ _< L r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
: ,   ,z, ,    S j.   ;.,   -      =                        \                     ( '' '-               r ns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/ X + -- > -- - - - ? - I he~~~~~rmr -                                    l                       JA D F1 A RL
G       ; A, P                                                                      _0>E                                X         '>r'
\  ;   |   Xr                     $                    \X7hf /    A          _U  r-           =tiLyt>/j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P I`r D
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE                        ,     '                      rdbo                      ,
FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                          t       +,                   (4Z
\ ~~~~Transportation Network ..dr.(i\yt
^1:: .ii !r/C- \ - zIrpngl pro zds ,1.-t                                                '                                            ste,?s7 A M R A
OCc t ,                             R;AAErh/ Iv  eds° t                                       7t                                            i9  w
'  -.-  n- rrzt ons Bou dC ,P.                        _   _  _  t            ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~Z A VM B I A   4 



