Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  52687 
Operation Name 
Nigeria Lagos State Development Loan 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (100%) 
Project ID 
P117237 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
LAGOS STATE GOVERNMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
December 21, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 28, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 15, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The State of Lagos in Nigeria is predominantly a city state, with an estimated population of over 15 million 
people. It is the engine of growth for Nigeria’s non-oil economy because it is the country’s financial center, a 
key communications and transportation hub, and the headquarters of many major national and regional 
industrial, manufacturing and financial corporations. However, while it contributes 12 percent to Nigeria’s 
total GDP, it has one of the highest poverty and inequality rates in the country. The physical and social 
infrastructure has not kept pace with population growth; as a result, living conditions for the majority of the 
State’s population which lives in slums are very poor. It is for this reason that through the Ten-Point Agenda, 
the current administration has been focusing on infrastructure spending particularly on roads, rail and water 
transportation, power and water supply, environment and housing, as well as streamlining of existing 
bureaucratic procedures with a view to improving the investment climate.  The State government views such 
reforms as essential to foster employment creation and accelerate non-oil growth. 
Lagos State has embarked on a wide range of reforms that have earned it a reputation as one of the fastest-
reforming states in Nigeria, as well as in Africa. With regard to revenues, a number of tax administration 
reforms were introduced in 2002 aimed at encouraging and enforcing payment of taxes and user charges. As 
a
result of these reforms, internally generated revenue (IGR) increased from N600 million per month in 2002 
to N14 billion per month in 2009. On the expenditure management side, the Lagos State Government 
improved performance in many aspects of payroll controls, accounts preparation, and external auditing.  
Through Oracle Financials (the integrated financial management and information system), the State 
Government has achieved integration of the payroll and nominal rolls.  Internal controls to changes on the 
personnel database are strong and payroll audits regular.  The quality of final accounts is good and their 
preparation is timely.  Similarly, audit reports are very timely and cover all government operations, including 
non-budgetary funds and operations.    
However, in spite of significant progress made, a recent Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment 
(PEFA) found that weaknesses remain in various areas of public expenditure management systems. 
Similarly, a recent Public Expenditure Review (PER) has found that in spite of significant increases in IGR, 
t
here remains 
significant
 scope
 to further improve the performance of tax revenue. In addition, the 
investment climate remains very weak. Further, while the reforms undertaken so far have been anchored in 
strong and visionary political leadership, the systems and policies to institutionalize and sustain these 
reforms remain weak. It is for this reason that the Bank is providing support through a Development Policy 
Operation (DPO) that seeks to ensure that progress is anchored in strong systems for development to be 
sustainable. The proposed DPO is envisaged in the Bank’s second Country Partnership Strategy for Nigeria 
as a possible new instrument for strengthening governance at state level, to be used in reformist states such 
as a Lagos. It is hoped that providing reformist states with DPO support could also produce incentives for 
Page  2
other states to follow their example, even if the DPO amounts are relatively modest com
pared to the states’ 
other resources. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The DPO’s project development objective is to support the Lagos State Government in reducing poverty and 
inequality by boosting non-oil growth and employment through policy and institutional reforms aimed at 
maintaining fiscal sustainability, improving the quality of spending, and strengthening the investment 
climate.   In the area of fiscal sustainability, the DPO’s objective is to support measures aimed at anchoring 
the budget in medium-term sustainable frameworks and increasing internally generated revenue. With regard 
to improving the quality of spending, the DPO’s objective is to support measures that improve budget 
planning, preparation, and execution through multi-year budget planning, introduction of improved 
procurement and audit legislation, improved cash management, and enhanced utilization of Oracle. Finally, 
in the area of private sector development, the DPO supports measures aimed at improving the investment 
climate by streamlining procedures for registration of property and   obtaining building permits. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed DPO is the first in a series of three programmatic operations. The policy and institutional 
reforms to be supported fall under four pillars: Fiscal sustainability, budget planning and preparation, budget 
execution, and investment climate. The policy and institutional reforms to be supported under the four pillars 
will support the State’s efforts in reducing poverty and inequality through increased infrastructure spending 
that is fiscally sustainable, of high quality, and where the private sector is the engine of growth. The financial 
support to be provided will help provide concessional financing that the State of Lagos requires to implement 
its resource intensive budget within the framework of the Ten-Point Agenda. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The specific measures supported by this operation are not expected to have likely and significant adverse 
effects on the environment, natural resources, and forests. Environmental effects may arise under the broader 
overall activities funded by the government’s budget, and implemented under national regulations, but not be 
directly linked to the specific policies. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source:
 
($m.)
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT
 
0
International Development Association (IDA)
 
200
 
Total
 
200
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Volker Treichel 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5359+206;  Fax:  
Email: vtreichel@worldbank.org 
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD) Contact: Volker Treichel 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5359+206;  Fax:  
Email: vtreichel@worldbank.org 
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD) 
 
Contact: Khwima Nthara 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5359+262; Fax:  
Page  3
Email: 
knthara@worldbank.org
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD)
 
