 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14832

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                               Date Posted: 10/23/2015

                 Country: Nigeria
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                  3
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                  1
              Series ID: S117237
        First Project ID : P117237                                                 Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Nigeria First Lagos         Project Costs (US$M):                        200                   200
                           State Development
                           Policy Credit
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         200                   200
       Sector Board:       Economic Policy          Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               03/17/2011
                                                                Closing Date:           06/30/2012           06/30/2012
          Sector(s):         Sub-national government administration (70%); General industry and trade sector (30%)
          Theme(s):          Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (55%); Regulation and
                             competition policy (20%); Macroeconomic management (15%); Debt management and fiscal
                             sustainability (10%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                 Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Moritz Piatti                Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Program Document (PD, p. vi) states that the objective is: "to support the government to build systems and
    institutions to improve the quality of spending and to strengthen the investment climate, while maintaining fiscal
    sustainability". There is no objective statement in the Financing Agreement.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The program supported four main policy areas: (a) fiscal sustainability; (b) budget planning; (c) budget execution;
    and (d) investment climate, and built on ten prior actions in support of these:

    Policy Area I: Fiscal sustainability
    The program supported the Lagos State Government in maintaining fiscal sustainability by ensuring that
    spending plans were within the ability of the state to raise revenue and keep debt within limits such that debt
    service payments would not crowd out poverty and service-related expenditure. A key policy measure was the
    adoption by the Executive Council of the 2010 budget. In addition, the program was expected to assist in
    maintaining the state’s fiscal sustainability by lowering the need for high interest on commercial bank loans and
    by contributing indirectly to higher levels of internally-generated revenue through sustainable growth. The main
    driver behind this would be non-oil growth and a more comprehensive tax base, the result of better infrastructure
   and a better business environment.

   Policy Area II: Budget planning
   The program supported a medium-term reform program in the areas of budget planning that aimed to fully align
   the policy priorities of the government with the executed budget, and further improve the execution of the capital
   budget by focusing on three policy actions. Key disbursement conditions for the program included the
   development of a medium term macroeconomic framework for the determination of resource ceilings, a strategy
   paper, the inclusion of capital projects in the budget meeting readiness requirements.

   Policy Area III: Budget execution
   The program supported a medium-term reform agenda aimed at strengthening the legal framework and building
   the institutional capacity to enhance both the transparency and accountability of expenditure and the
   government’s ability to execute the budget in line with its declared policies. To improve budget execution, policy
   actions centered on procurement reform, improvements to the public financial management system, and reform
   of the external and internal audit systems.

   Policy Area IV: Quality of the Investment Climate
   The program supported medium-term actions that would address shortcomings in the investment climate related
   to land transactions and to obtaining building permits. The program included key prior actions such as the
   approval by the Executive Council of simplified procedures assignment and mortgage transactions, and to
   simplify and fast track the development permit process.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   IDA credit in the amount of US$ 200 million was provided to Lagos State government.. The operation was
   appraised on October 5, 2010, approved by the Board on March 17, 2011, and became effective on July 1, 2011.
   The IDA credit was disbursed in full on effectiveness. The program was closed as scheduled on June 30, 2012.

   The First Lagos State Development Policy Operation (FLSDPO) was intended to be the first of three in a
   programmatic operation. The approval of the second operation 30 June, 2014 came more than 2 years after the
   approval of the first operation, and thus procedurally broke the series and necessitated a separate
   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first operation. The programmatic series was cut short due to
   delayed approval of the borrowing plan by the National Assembly.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of objectives is rated substantial.

   The operation's objective was substantially relevant at program inception and closure. Considerable gains in
   service delivery were achieved through a large increase in capital expenditure. While this is laudable the financial
   sustainability deserved close attention in order not to reverse some of the progress made. Secondly, improving
   the quality of spending would have positive implications for the availability and quality of public services, and
   thirdly an improved investment climate would contribute to increased private investment and economic growth.

   The program was consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2010-13). The program
   supported the achievement of the CPS themes that aimed at improving governance, maintaining non-oil growth,
   and promoting human development. The CPS supported state-level development policy operations that could be
   a “strong vehicle for deep engagement at the State level,” in particular for supporting the improvement of public
   financial management. Lagos was identified as the best candidate for a “pioneer” development policy operation
   (DPO) in view of its achievements in improving the public financial management system, the reform orientation of
   the Lagos State Government, the importance of Lagos state for Nigeria, and the inadequacy of fiscal resources.
   Specifically, the program directly supported the Lagos Partnership Strategy embedded in the CPS.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of design is rated substantial .

   The program objective was clear, specific, measurable, and outcome oriented. The results framework was
   broadly results focused and has prior actions that were catalysts to achieving the outcomes. The prior actions
   have sufficient institutional depth, add value and were closely aligned to the PDO and outcomes.

   Specifically, adopting the state budget based on a medium-term fiscal strategy consistent with long term debt
   sustainability is likely to contribute to the objective of fiscal sustainability and progress can adequately be
   measured in terms of deficit, debt service as a share of total revenue, the ratio of the wage bill, and internal
   generated growth and collection. Similarly, improved budget planning and budget execution are likely to translate
   into improved quality of spending. Prior actions in the form of using a medium term macroeconomic framework as
   a base for the budget, preparation and dissemination of mid-term sector strategies, preparation and submission
   of procurement, public financial management, and audit bills are likely to contribute to this objective. Further,
   there is a close relationship between simplified procedures for mortgage transactions, and fast tracking the
   development permits based on project size with improved investment climate, which can be captured by the time
   to register mortgage and property as well as the time to obtain a building permit. While some of these indicators
   are high level, and will also be driven by factors other than the Bank engagement, they do provide an indication of
   prior action contribution to progress. Weaknesses in the results chain pertain to the link between policy areas,
   and prior actions to immunization rate and classroom to pupil ratio, which were only remotely linked to the
   program objective. They were thus dropped from the subsequent operation.

   The use of a series versus single operation was appropriate, given a long term strategic engagement. However,
   the delayed approval of subsequent operations by the national assembly cut short the series. The political risk
   associated with federal support was not anticipated and led to delays of subsequent operations.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Achievement is assessed for each of the objectives based on the achievement of their associated outcome
   targets.

   Objective 1: Maintaining Fiscal Sustainability
   Maintaining fiscal sustainability was rated substantial as substantial progress was made regarding debt service
   whilst keeping the fiscal deficit well below 2 percent. Intermediate outcome targets were only partially met, but
   record significant progress, which makes attribution to outcomes plausible. The ICR provides additional
   information beyond the target of 2011, evidencing continued significant progress.

   Intermediate Outcomes :
   The Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) collection as percent of the approved budget has increased from 74
   percent in 2009 to 76 and 78 percent in 2010 and 2011 respectively, missing the targets of 80 percent and 87
   percent for 2010 and 2011. IGR collection remained at 77 percent in 2012 but markedly improved to 91 percent in
   2013.

   Revenue from land use charges have increased by 50 percent in 2010 and 27 percent in 2011, missing the target
   of an annual increase of 50 percent. They however further increased substantially thereafter by 63 percent in
   2012 and 15 percent in 2013.

   The wage bill (including pensions) increased from 35 percent of total recurrent expenditure in 2008 to 38 percent
   in 2011, missing the target of not exceeding 35 percent in 2011 due to pressure from public protests. However, it
   achieved the target of 35 percent in 2012/13.

   Outcomes:
   The fiscal deficit as a percentage of the State's Gross Domestic Product has remained stable at around 0.8
   percent (0.8 percent in 2010; 0.6 percent in 2011), thus substantially meeting the target of below 2 percent by
   2011. It has continued to meet the target through 2013.

   The debt service as percent of total revenue ratio has increased significantly from 13 percent in 2008 to 18.8
   percent in 2011, and has increased since to 26.5 percent in 2012 mainly due to lower than expected IGR. The
   target of 9 percent in 2009 is invalid due to revised methodology (improved debt reporting), and has not been
   updated for this operation.

   The real IGR registered negative growth rate, and performed below its targets. The baseline of 5 percent in 2008,
   was diminished to -2.3 percent in 2010 and -0.7 percent in 2011 substantially missing the targets for 0 percent
   and 6 percent respectively. This is largely attributed to the global financial crisis, and tax relief mandated by the
   personal income tax act.
Objective 2: Improve the Quality of Spending
There was mixed progress regarding this objective. While there is some evidence of improved quality of
spending, most outcome targets were missed. In particular progress is modest with regards to bank reconciliation
reports, publicly awarded contracts using standard bidding documents, cash management, immunization rates,
capital budget execution, and variance in composition of expenditure outturns. On balance achievement of this
objective is rated modest. However, it is recognized that the operation strengthened financial management
systems, which are likely to translate into improved effectiveness of expenditures in the medium term.

Intermediate Outcomes :
The government adopted and institutionalized new approaches for budget planning and preparation including a
medium-term expenditure framework comprised of a top down budget plan with an overall budget ceiling, and a
bottom up budget based on the sector strategies.

The percent of unreconciled items in bank reconciliation reports cleared with audit trails available or action taken
on transaction in each module improved from not cleared in 2009 to 57 percent in 2011 substantially missing the
target of 90 percent. Further improvements were made for 2012 and 2013 with 70 and 72 percent cleared
respectively.

The procurement law, approved in 2011 and supported through the prior actions, provided the legal basis for the
establishment of a regulatory agency, the Lagos State Public Procurement Agency, on April 2, 2012.
Procurement has improved through regular publication of contract awards, use of standard bidding documents,
and an effective use of complaints mechanism. Contracts were published in 2009, and were continued to be so
during project implementation, thus meeting the target. None of the publicly awarded contracts were using
standard bidding documents at baseline or project closure, missing the target of 25 percent. However, in 2013,
eight ministries, departments and agencies accounting for 65 percent of capital expenditure began using
standard bidding documents. None of the complaints were resolved or acted upon at baseline or project closure,
missing the target of 5 percent in 2011. Progress has been made as 100 percent of complaints were resolved in
2013.

Against a baseline of zero audit queries resolved in 2009, 75 percent of annual audit queries did not reoccur in
subsequent years. The target was set for 65 percent in 2010 and 85 percent in 2011. No data was available to
inform progress. This indicator was replaced for the subsequent operations. The number of audits conducted by
the state auditor general fully compliant with international standards improved from 0 in 2009 to 67 and 75 in
2010 and 2011, exceeding the target of 20 and 50 respectively. This has further improved to 96 in 2012. Notable
is that the enactment of the new Audit Act (as supported per prior action), coupled with the restructuring of the
Auditor General has positioned the audit office to be responsive to its oversight role.

Little progress was made by 2011 regarding cash management, though the momentum has since picked up.
Capacity weaknesses across MDAs and the Treasury Office, coupled with the problems associated with systems
connectivity and frequent downtimes, had significant negative impacts on the orderly implementation of the
delivered systems. No cash management indicators were included in project design.


Outcomes:
The classroom to pupil ratio (primary) has decreased from 1:46 in 2009 to 1:38 in 2010 and 1:41 in 2011 meeting
the target of 1:42 in 2010, but slightly missing the target of 1:40 in 2011. The ratio further improved in 2012 to
1:40.

The immunization rate improved from 68 percent in 2009 to 76 percent in 2010, and then dropped to 73 percent
in 2011, reaching the target of 75 percent in 2010, but significantly missing the target of 80 percent for 2011.
Immunization rates further improved to 77 percent in 2012. The link of this outcome to policy areas and prior
actions is weak, however making attribution implausible.

The Bank team informed IEG that capital budget execution was highly variable. It improved from 70 percent in
2009 to 74 percent in 2010, but then dropped to 65 percent in 2011. It picked up again in 2012 to 90 percent, but
dropped to 79 percent in 2013, exceeding the target of 75 percent.

The Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) PI-2, variance in composition of expenditure
out-turns compared to original approved budget: variance in expenditure composition exceeded overall deviation
in primary expenditure deteriorated and substantially missed its target. Against a baseline of above five percent in
2009 (17.3 percent), the PI-2 values were 11.1 percent in 2010 and 41.5 percent in 2011. The ICR attributes this
to volatility in revenue earnings over the period resulting in re-prioritization of expenditures.
   Objective 3: Strengthening Investment Climate .
   Progress regarding the strengthening of the investment climate is well below expectation. This sub-objective is
   thus rated Negligible.

   Intermediate outcomes :
   The total number of days required to register a property remained the same at 73 days between 2009 and 2011
   falling significantly short of the target of 30 days in 2010 and 24 days in 2011. The number of days further
   increased in 2012 and 2013 to 77 days.

   The overall time taken to obtain a building permit increased from 96 days in 2009 to 116 days in 2010 and 2011.
   The target of a reduction to 64 and 51 days in 2010 and 2011 was substantially missed. While the time still took
   116 days in 2012 and 2013 the ICR reports that the cost has steadily declined since 2011.

   The total number of Certificates of Occupancy in circulation increased from 56,000 in 2009 to 77,180 and 79,654
   in 2010 and 2011. This almost met the target of 77,800 in 2010 but significantly fell short of the target of 106,000
   set for 2011. The stock has increased modestly in 2012 and 2013 to 81,366 and 83,767 certificates respectively.

   The total number of days to register a mortgage fell from 319 days in 2009 by 12.5 percent in 2010 and remained
   the same in 2011. This significantly missed the target of 50 percent in 2010 and at least 80 percent by the end of
   2011. While considerable progress was achieved in 2012 with a reduction of 43 percent, this was partially
   reversed in 2013 by an increase in 21 percent.

   The total number of mortgages registered increased from 454 in 2009 by 48 percent in 2010 and then decreased
   by 1 percent in 2011. This met the target of an increase of 10 percent per year. The number of mortgages further
   increased to 826 in 2012 and then decreased slightly to 812 in 2013.

   There was an increase in Certificate of Occupancy stock in circulation from 56,000 in 2009 to 77,180 in 2010 and
   79,654 in 2011, almost reaching target of 77,800 for 2010 and significantly missing the target of 106,000 for
   2011.

   While results are negligible thus far, the Government has taken actions that are likely to translate into an
   improved business environment in the near future. These include increasing the number of commissioners to
   approve consents for mortgages; a proposal to further reduce the official fees charged for registering a property;
   further lowering land transaction fees, simplifying the process for registering a property, and increasing the
   number of locations where building permit payment can be made.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The program objective was substantially relevant to country conditions at appraisal and closure. Relevance of
   design was substantial, as the results framework is broadly results focused and has prior actions that are
   catalysts to achieving the outcomes. There was substantial achievement in fiscal sustainability. However, there
   was mixed progress regarding quality of spending and negligible results regarding improved business
   environment. As a result, outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. While some targets for 2011 were
   substantially missed especially for objective 3, the ICR presented evidence that significant improvements
   materialized in the years since, and reforms taken by the Government are likely to translate into further
   improvements in the coming years.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Changes in the macro and fiscal environments in Nigeria are outside the control of the Lagos government and
   pose a significant risk to program outcomes. While the volatility in international oil prices poses a significant risk,
   thus far Lagos state has proven resilient. Oil prices have come down sharply, yet as of October 2014 fiscal deficit
   was only 1.6 percent of the State’s GDP (Implementation Support and Results [ISR1] for DPO2). The ICR notes
   that the Political risk associated with the 2015 elections is considered moderate. While the elections are expected
   to change the executive team of the government in Lagos State, there has been strong and broad-based
   commitment due to the participatory policy making processes involving relevant stakeholders. Finally,
   implementation risk associated with weak information and communication technology (ICT) capacity is
   considered moderate. A number of program outcomes, such as the successful and efficient working of all
   financial modules and geographic information system (GIS), depend to a large extent on motivated, well-paid and
   trained civil servants with requisite ICT skills. This challenge was addressed to some extent through the use of
   abundant ICT consultants available in Lagos to support the implementation.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The operation was appropriately incorporated in the ongoing State Government program, which ensured
   political support, and made the program sustainable. Given that the life span of the operation was likely to
   cover a regime change this was particularly important for program and reform sustainability.

   The design of the program was informed by a comprehensive analytical body of work by the World Bank and
   other donors including a PEFA Assessment that was finalized shortly prior to the operation’s approval. These
   helped inform the reform program under fiscal sustainability, budget planning and preparation and budget
   execution pillars. The Investment Climate pillar, which was guided by the ongoing Investment Climate
   Program and sub-national Governance Investment Climate, focused more on administrative procedures.

   The program’s M&E was relatively well designed (see section 10). The operation was coupled with technical
   assistance from IDA's Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project and DFID's State
   Partnership on Accountability Responsiveness and Capability Program. Reforms moved forward even in the
   absence of a programmatic engagement, as evidenced by progress in implementing the subsequent DPO’s
   triggers during 2012-13. However, targets were at times overly ambitious. Changes to the income tax regime
   by the federal government were not anticipated, making the targets difficult to achieve. Similarly, the risk
   associated with limited internet connectivity and ICT capacity was not expected, and as a result the
   implementation of the Oracle financial modules slowed in 2011-12. Further, the link between program
   objectives and outcomes regarding immunization and classroom to pupil ratio is tenuous. While
   macroeconomic risks were adequately identified and mitigation measures taken, political risks regarding
   support from the federal level for subnational policy lending were not, which led to delays of subsequent
   operations.



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank conducted regular supervision. Teams included the required expertise of public financial
   management and procurement specialists, and a GIS expert to monitor the implementation. The team
   maintained the policy dialog with the government even in the absence of the second operation. The
   engagement focused mainly on progress in implementing the triggers of the operation (i.e. prior actions for
   the follow up loan). Supervision adequately identified issues regarding progress in investment climate, which
   then focused subsequent policy actions more directly on lowering the cost of registering a property, as well as
   speeding up the registration and approval process.

   A shortcoming is that the ISRs did not present the values for all M&E indicators.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   According to the ICR, the commitment to reform in Lagos State is built on a broad-based, participatory
   process sustained over several years, including an active business community, organized labor, news and
   social media, and a diverse civil society. While progress in investment climate was lagging there was
   significant commitment by the state Government through actions such as increasing the number of
   commissioners to approve consents for mortgages. The State Government demonstrated a firm commitment
   to the program supported by the operation, and was well prepared to implement the agreed actions.

   Support for sub-national policy lending at the federal level however was lacking and the national assembly
   blocked the operation, which resulted in significant delays and eventually a break of the series. Further,
   internally generated revenue significantly fell short of expectations due to an amendments act approved by
   the federal government. In response, the Lagos State Government reduced personnel costs and overhead
   spending to accommodate capital expenditures while maintaining the fiscal deficit below the target of 2
   percent of State GDP.



  Government Performance Rating :                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The overall reform program, implemented by various Ministries, Departments and Agencies, was coordinated
   by the Ministry of Finance of the Lagos State Government, which showed significant ownership and
   commitment. There were challenges such as a shortfall of internally generated revenue due to an
   amendments act approved by the federal government. Government took decisive actions to address these
   challenges including a reduction of personnel costs and overhead spending to ensure the achievement of the
   program development objectives. The installation and operationalization of the financial modules were
   fast-tracked after intervention by the Governor.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E arrangements were constructed for the program, but was aligned when possible with indicators that were in
   part already monitored by the Government. Ministries, departments, and agencies were responsible for
   monitoring progress in their respective engagement areas. An M&E unit was set up in the Ministry of Economic
   Planning and Budgeting, which is responsible for improving the reporting across ministries. PDO indicators and
   intermediate outcome indicators are of good quality. They are specific, measurable, have clear baselines, relate
   closely to outcomes, and are attributable to the set of prior actions. Where applicable PEFA indicators were used
   for baseline and arrangements were set up to track progress. Targets were, as it turned out, at times overly
   ambitious.

   M&E design would have benefited from indicators regarding the implementation of the ICT modules.


b. M&E Implementation:

   M&E data as per M&E design has been by and large diligently collected by the respective ministries throughout
   the operation in a timely manner. The Lands Bureau did not however monitor the impacts of the reform to simplify
   business procedures for mortgage registration.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The use of M&E data for the government’s decision-making and resource allocation was uneven. While the
   Government regularly used M&E data under the first pillar to inform fiscal and debt policy and budget allocation,
   the use of M&E data to strengthen the investment climate reform was weak.

   The Bank used M&E to inform lagging progress in strengthening the investment climate. Subsequently,
   programmatic series were focused more directly on the policy actions that would lower the cost of registering a
   property and speed up the registration and approval process.

   It was also recognized that the targets for some results indicators were overly ambitious, such as the targets
   pertaining to the internally generated revenue real growth rate and the ratio of debt service to revenue. These
   have been reflected in the new programmatic series under the follow up operation.

 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation. The PD notes that the operation is not likely to any
   significant negative poverty or social impact on poor or vulnerable people.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The fiduciary assessment (PD, p. 49) pointed out inherent control risks including: weak capacity to implement
   reforms; poor budget implementation; weak internal controls; insufficient public financial management skills; low
   level of independence of the Office of the Auditor General; weak monitoring of parastatals and local
   governments; uneven strength of legislative scrutiny of external audit reports; high levels of extra-budgetary
   expenditures (impacting weaknesses in fiscal discipline); poor budget classification system; and lack of
   transparency in intergovernmental relations. The ICR does not address fiduciary compliance, but points out that
   many of the outputs achieved addressed some of these shortcomings.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   The ICR notes that the reform program, which aimed to increase IGR and improve access to investment land,
   could have unintended consequences. For example, Lagos’ informal sector is large and has created numerous
   employment and income for small businesses and individuals. While efforts to increase tax collection in the
   informal sector would increase both the number of taxpayers and collection, it runs the risk of increasing the tax
   burden on a lower-income group, and needs to be carefully monitored.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately             Moderately              Efficacy is rated modest due to slow
                               Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory          progress regarding improved quality of
                                                                              spending and negligible progress in
                                                                              strengthened investment climate.
                                                                              Overall Outcome is consequently rated
                                                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory.
        Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                   Outcome:
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately          Borrower performance is rated
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory due to
                                                                                lacking support at the federal level
                                                                                causing delays and eventually a
                                                                                disruption of the series.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG concurs with the lessons drawn by the ICR (ICR pp. 33) with some adaptation of language:

    It is important to design a state level operation in such a manner that continuity can be maintained even in the
    face of unanticipated delays in financial support. Issues may arise at the National Assembly that may lead to
    delays. The Bank needs to continue its engagement until the program can be adjusted to the mutual
    satisfaction of all parties.

    The design of a sub-national government operation would need to properly account for interplay between
    federal and state policies. For a sub-national government DPO, the team needs to clearly identify who is in
    charge of policy formulation that is supported by the program. If the federal government is in control of a policy,
    it is important that the program design allows sufficient space for a state government to counter adverse
    impacts from factors outside their control. In this circumstance, targets for results indicators can be moderated
    and take into account the unanticipated risk due to the federal government’s policy actions.

    Coupling a DPO with long-term technical assistance supports the implementation of prior actions and fosters
    sustainability of the reform. Technical assistance support may continue even in the absence of a programmatic
    engagement.

    When the reform focuses on public sector modernization through the deployment of an integrated financial
    management information system, it is important to consider and mitigate the risks associated with internet
    connectivity and ICT capacity.

    Care must be taken when applying Investment Climate Assessment recommendations and indicators. It is
    critical to consult an in-depth sector diagnostic prior to reform.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? A PPAR at the end of the programatic series is recommended in order to provide lessons regarding
subnational policy lending in Sub-Saharan Africa. It would also provide an opportunity to see whether the systems
advances in public financial management have translated into better quality of spending.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is candid, clear and concise, and places it well into the context of Nigeria. The ICR reports on progress
    beyond the target years that show both positive and negative developments. The ICR provides valuable detail
    beyond the core indicators, especially regarding the strengthening of the investment climate and update progress
    on some of the policy actions. The section assessing the risk to development outcome is exhaustive and
    appropriately covers a variety of factors including economic, political, and implementation risks. However, the
    ICR at times exaggerated some of the achievements such as the target on revenue from land use charges.
    Further, the ICR would have benefitted from a more comprehensive discussion of M&E design.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
