Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20209-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.4 MILLION (US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
CIVIL SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MARCH 23,2000
Economic and Social Development Unit
Nliddle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 29, 2000)
Currency Unit  Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$1   161 YR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFMIS               Accounting and Financial Management Information System
ASYCUDA             Automated System for Customs Documentation
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CQ                  Consultant Qualifications
CSF                 Civil Service Fund
CSM                 Civil Service Modernization
DFID                Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EDB                 Employee Database
GOY                 Government of Yemen
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOCSAR              Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOPD                Ministry of Planning and Development
N/A                 Not Applicable
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NIAS                National Institute for Administrative Science
PFS                 Project Financial Statement
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PMR                 Project Management Report
PRS                 Poverty Reduction Strategy
PSMAC               Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
QBCB                Quality-Based Cost-Based
QBS                 Quality Based Selection
RG                  Reform Group
SA                  Special Account
SC                  Supreme Council for Administrative Reform
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
TA                  Technical Assistance
TOR                 Terms of Reference
TS                  Technical Secretariat
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
|   Vice President:            Kemal Dervi§
I   Country Director:          Inder Sud
l   Sector Director:           Mustapha Nabli
Team Leader:               Linda Van Gelder



z    ...............................................   si dsu    lsa oAluo:  31q!ssOd   ''
OZ .S)S} ''1 '' ' ''I''(!q'e"!eIlsS ' 
6.qz{aoidde (JoWedizwil?d L
6.1                                                    1uussasse [luauuoJiAu3 9
.1                                                                       1830S 5
.                                                                     ---Ieuo!inal1suL b
8 I.SkU [~OJ £JuluuouI I
.      ---   faoid snpa tu poddns fuet[jo pappe a'NlA S
L.1diu,sJauMo pue luauwltuwoa iamouJoq jo suo!ea!puI b
g.------- - -   ----uSrsap pa3oJd aq u! paa«  pue pau eaj suossaI i
£ . 1--stuS  uawdoIaAap Jatqlo iojpue  B ju,l yCq poaueu! spaaGoid pale.a lofeyvi z
4,............ .. *  - --UOU3oaI?I OJo suoseai pue paJap!SUO: S~aI!leW.1I. SI
o.-- -                               lawSeJ uo!Wauou1a!duu[ pue ieuo!lnmluwu  b
6.--uo!Wflndod le   pue szijauaj £
. -Xaaoid aqz (q papoddns siuuiopia IeUO!1f}lSU! pue X!lod AaN 
.                                                            sXuiuod uoaX paoCw 
.8JuieuunS uot1d!J3saU p4aoij, 3
. sa!otp a!Bnus pue pJaiod aq A^q possa.ippe aq oi sanssi iopoaS 
z.laafo.id ag Aq pa.ioddns leo (svc) HaXei¢s ouelsissv (zunoj paw i-aJopos 
Z.------------------Sioleapui aoueuuoj.xad Aa 
Z8                                                             .......Aqo....do .pp  LPOoJd
ze44@eeX*X***@vvs*e*-v--.----------------------  A!aa4qo lutuzdopAsaU aro~j y
SIM1IMO3
pa.(oJd uo$ .u         .. . ..po.  .!AJaS  l!AqD
ualua,o 10 lqndaf






Yemen, Republic of
Civil Service Modernization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Middle East Department
Date: March 23, 2000                                 Team Leader: Linda Van Gelder
Country Manager/Director: Inder Sud                  Sector Manager/Director: Mustapha Nabli
Project IlD: 50706                                   Sector: BA - Civil Service Reform
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan        Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [I Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data
[  Loan    [X] Credit        [I Grant       [] Guarantee      [  Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm): $30 million equivalent
Proposed terms:  [x] Standard            [  Multicurrency       [  Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [  Fixed             [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                0.50%
Service charge:                0.75%
F¢iuacgplan (US$M):.             :--                    ...        ;------- -                     ;
Government                                                3.0               0.0               3.0
IDA                                                       4.9              25.1              30.0
Total:                                                     7.9             25.1              33.0
Borrower: Government of Yemen
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Ministry of Finance, Line
Ministries/agencies involved in restructuring
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                        01           02          03           04           05
Annual                     5.0          7.8          8.3         5.8          3.1
Cumulative                     5.0         12.8        21.1         26.9         30.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 1. 2000       Expected closing date: Auguist 31, 2005
Implementing agency: Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform: Ministry of Finance
Contact person: H.E. Mohamad Al-Juneid. Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reform. Chairman of
Oversight Committee
Address: Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform. Sana'as Republic of Yemen
Tel: (967-1) 276-715          Fax: (967-1) 276-715           E-mail: mocsar(y.net.ye
OCS PAD Fonn: October 9. 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The Government of Yemen has adopted a comprehensive, longer-termr strategy for modernizing
its civil service.' The vision of the Government is to have in place a civil service that efficiently and
effectively provides a reduced scope of government services; that encourages and supports the private and
non-government sector; that operates with transparency, where performance measurement serves as the
key management tool; and where a merit principle is applied to staff. The program is expected to take ten
years, although slippage is possible.
The proposed project is envisaged as the foundation of this longer-term reform strategy. The
specific objectives of this Phase I operation is to create capacity, institutions and systems for improved
and sustained utilization of human and financial resources of the Yemen civil service. To this end, the
project would help put in place core personnel and financial management systems, establish a mechanism
to reduce the number of unqualified civil servants, and initiate a restructuring process in individual
ministries. To make this foundation as solid as possible, another objective of the project is to upgrade the
management capacity in the civil service.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the development objectives will be measured and monitored on the basis of the
following indicators: production of consolidated financial statements produced in timely manner and
employment based on positions and merit with transparent application of civil service law. These
indicators would point to the better, more transparent utilization of the government's human and financial
resources.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 19073-YEM                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 5/25/99
The priority in Yemen is to address, in a sustainable manner, the most binding constraints to
development and poverty alleviation.  Towards this aim, the CAS focuses assistance on four
interdependent objectives. This project supports one of these four pillars: "to create a modem' public
administration that provides public services honestly and efficiently while encouraging private
enterprise." Activities financed under the project will assist the government meet country performance
indicators specified in the CAS, including introduction of a new personnel system, streamlining agencies,
and reducing the number of persons on the payroll, thereby permitting a gradual revision in the salary
structure.
As described in the CAS, past Banlk efforts to build capacity failed to address systemic
weaknesses in civil service incentives, structure and management, in the budgeting mechaiiism. and in
revenue generation. The country strategy makes these weakness its major immediate target. since the
sustainability of Bank work on all other objectives depends on good public administration. As described
in the CAS, reform efforts in this area are under the umbrella of a planned series of Public Sector
Management Adjustment Credits (PSMACs).2 This project provides support for implementation of the
public administration and financial management reforms.
Strategic Framework. Civil Serx ice Modernization. adopted by Cabinet Resolution 290 of 1998.
2 The first PSMAC wvas approved by the Board in March 1999. Report and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed
Putblic Sector -.1fanagem?ien7t A4djlstnent n Credit: Report No. P-7291-YENI. The relex ant sections of the PSMAC policy matrix are
provided as an attachment to Annex 2.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Over the past several years, Yemen has taken significant steps to stabilize its economy and has
embarked on important structural reforms designed to generate growth and employment opportunities.
But it is now widely recognized within Yemen that to sustain and strengthen recent achievements, it is
critical to reform the public administration system.
During the early 1990s, Yemen's civil service began to act as an employer of first resort and to
serve as a central component in the government's social safety net. The first use had seriously adverse
growth consequences since resources that could have been allocated to investment, development, and
operations and maintenance were instead diverted to the wage bill. The negative impact on growth was
further exacerbated since an inflated civil service gave rise to unwarranted and excessive government
interference in private sector economic. The use of civil service employment as a safety net had equally
adverse consequences for social equity in government spending. While some civil service employment
was directed to the unemployed or the poor, this was an ad hoc rather than equitable process.
The consequence of these policies has been a more than doubling of the civil service during the
1990s, with most of the increase coming in the period 1990-1995 (see Table 1). Currently, the education
sector employees about two-thirds and the health sector ten percent of civil servants.
Table 1: Trends in Yemen's Civil Service Employment (thousands)
1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998    1999e
Number    168    203    235    267    295    322    328    334    336             352
% growth            21%    16%    14%    1 0%/    9%       2%      2%     >00/,    5%
Civil administration, permanent and contract workers
Source: .OCSAR and WVB staff calculations
By 1999, civil servants represented about two percent of the population (17.6 million) or eight percent of
the labor force active population which in 1999 was estimated at 4.4 million. Additionally, employment
in public enterprises is over 83,100. ln aggregate, public sector employment accounts for four percent of
the population or 14 percent of the labor force.
Due to the size of the civil service, the wage bill represents 14 percent of GDP and 35 percent of
total government expenditures (see Table 2). This is high by any international standard (See Table 3).
Table 2: Wage Bill as a % of GDP and Expenditures
199-5   1996    199-~  1998    1999   2000}r
Wage-asa°o (.DP         15°0    I 1%    11°n   14%'    1 5°      13°/o
Wages as a o total exp  S5 5    32°o   27%>     2 99    36hko   3596
SoIrce: I) B siaof.fCcUcitionS
Table 3: Wage Bill as a % of GDP: International Comparitors
1}emell.41g    .IE -I4fi-ica  ~-Isia         FSUZEE   L.iC        OECD
1998-2'r000
1406          9.8°o     6.7%b      4.70o     3.80b      4.9°0     4.5%0
Source: An International Statistical Survey of Government Emplox mnt and Wk'ages. 11orld
Bank Polic! Researclh Wf orking Paper Number 180)6 199-.



Page 4
Despite the growth in civil service, the wage bill (which as shown above is large) has been more
or less contained. However, this has come through the dramatic reduction in wages. By 1996, the
average real wage was only 15 percent of the 1990 real wage level. Currently, the average civil servant
salary (including allowances) is about 22,700 YRlmonth which is about six times per capita GDP. This is
comparable to countries in Yemen's income' However, wages are seriously compressed, with senior
managers earning only 2.5 times (3.0 including allowance) the lowest level civil servant (international
benchmarks place vertical compression at about six to seven' A comparison with salary data available
from a 1996 labor survey showed that in that year, senior civil servants earned only about I I percent of
the wages of their private sector contemporaries. For the lowest skills position, public sector salaries
were about 34 percent of private formal sector wages. These low wages have led to inability to attract
high quality workers, lack of effort of existing staff with many persons holding more than one job (either
within the public or private sector), and an increase in reliance on petty corruption to top-off salaries. It
has also reinforced the concept that wages paid to a civil servant are nothing more than a safety-net.
In termns of organization structure, there are 28 ministries divided into 15 sectors. There are well
over 80 "departments" which range in size from a ministry such as health (over 30,000 staff) or education
(over 150,000 staff) to the Social Security Fund (8 staff) or the Central Authority for Scientific Research
(15 staff). In addition, there are a large number of public enterprises. The organizational structures of
many of these departments are a spider-web of complexity. And, despite the intricate structures, the chain
of command generally passes upward with little ability of lower level managers to take decisions or be
held accountable for activities even as mundane as approval of staff's annual leave.
In sum, the current public administration system has major deficiencies in key areas: nearly all
the core systems are inadequate (ranging from personnel and financial management, to budgeting,
procurement, and property management),5 organizational structures and work flows are duplicative and
unnecessarily complex, and human resource-management is virtually absent. The result is a bloated civil
service with extremely low pay scales, low capacity, opaque hiring and promotion practices, and virtually
absent enforcement mechanisms. This impedes the government's ability to deliver essential public
services.
To address some of the main causes of poor public sector performance, Yemen developed a
reform strategy that was debated at a national conference in August 1998. This conference, inaugurated
by the President, was attended by a wide cross-section of Yemeni society. Subsequent to this conference
a Strategic Frameworkfor Civil Service Modernization was finalized by a working group on the basis of
conference recommendations. This Strategic Framework was approved by Cabinet Decree Number 290
in 1998. The strategy calls for a reform program to:
*  streamline government entities and eliminate duplication and non-essential services; increase the
transparency of procedures and the consistency with which they are applied;
i-improve budgeting and financial management systems to help ensure efficient, transparent. non-
corrupt use of public funds;
*  restructure the public employmenit system  to establish and maintain professional standards by
developing  a clear personnel managemenit system  that governs hiring, promotion. salary
determination, delineationi of duties, responsibility for results, and performance evaluation:
*  institlte effective controls oni staffing levels, and re-deploy or terminate (through a fair process)
redundant workers: and
A.4n International Statistical Sun7ev of Governzment Employment and 1IWages. Policy Research Working Paper No. 1806. The
World Bank. June 1997.
4 Ibid.
The British Department for International Dev elopment (DFID) is financing the steam-lininig of the customs systems through the
introduction of ASYCtIDA. The European Uinion is assisting in enhancing the debt management s\ stem through the introduction
of DNFAS.



Page 5
improve compensation to motivate civil servants and to retain high quality staff.
The strategy also recognizes that training and substantial capacity building is the lynchpin for
carrying out and maintaining the reform program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
With such a comprehensive refonn agenda, the government recognizes the danger of attempting
too much with too little result. The Government, in consultation with the World Bank, has therefore:
*   developed a phased, longer-term reform process;
*   adopted an incremental but integrated approach whereby three essential pillars -establishing core
service systems; reducing overstaffing; and reengineering of selected entities - are addressed
concurrently but in a manner that is phased to create synergy; and
*   focused on the need to complement all reform activities with requisite training programs.
Key policy decisions have already been taken under the framework of the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Credit (section B 1 and the attachment to Annex 2). The activities supported
under the project will provide the technical support and training needed to move forward on these policy
decisions and to sustain the reform program.
(1) Improve Core Systems: A well-functioning public administration relies on a number and
variety of core systems to assist in the effective management of its resources, both financial and human.
While it would be useful to modernize all of the core government systems, there is insufficient capacity
for the administration to absorb such massive changes all at once. Therefore, improvements in core
systems have been phased as follows:
Personnel management               Financial management              Other systems
Phase I     Verify personnel records and       Develop and introduce basic       Ensure consistency in existing
establish a count of civil servants  accounting and financial        payroll system and streamline
Establis a computerizedemploye management information system   proceedures
Establish a computerized employee    (AFMIS) including budget
database to keep up-to-date        management, expenditure controls,   Select priorities for reform of
information on staff to be used to  and accounting framnework        other core systems
ensure accurate application of salary
levels, promotions and retirement  Computerize system within MOF
Issue biometrics identification cards    Roll-out to 3 large HQ units
to limit fraud
Introduce transparency in hiring
Develop and implement job
classification system
Bepin introduction of job descriptions
Dex clop and begai implementtig
training programs for civil serx ants
Phanse 11    Complete job descriptions         Roll-out of AFNIIS sx stemn       Revise pa% roll sx stem and bemin
Develop nex~ merit based  throughout all budgetar\ units  implementationl of neN% pax roll
Develop nes~ merit based_.                                             se.Ti   llorctcin
emplo\ ment practices                                                svstem. This \\ill force the link
bet\een the personnel and
Re\ ise salary structures                                            financial management s\ stems
Implemenit training programs                                         Bemin rex ision of other core
s\ stems
Phlase Ill   Introduce merit based s\ stem of  Introduce adN anced functions in the   Continue reform of and
and after   employment                         AFMIS                             implementation of core systems
Implemenit trainirma programs



Page 6
The project supports Phase I reforms that are designed as the first critical steps to: (i) increase the
transparency and efficiency with which public resources are used; and (ii) move towards a performance
based, professional civil service. The project will support development of clear processes, procedures,
and policies for each aspect of the core system under reform. When core systems are computerized, there
will be a phase-in period during which manual systems will be maintained (particularly outside of the
major urban centers) until the computerized system has operated smoothly throughout an entire work
cycle.
To encourage the use of the improved systems and ensure that they are used properly, the project
will provide extensive on-the-job training.  This will be provided through two vehicles.  First,
international (and when available local) technical assistance will be provided intensively in the beginning
and gradually phased out over the reform program. The principal aim of this assistance is to mentor civil
service staff in the new skills that they need to acquire. Second, specific training programs (short
modular courses with extensive on-the-job components) will be provided to staff working with the new
core systems.
(2) Rationalize Size and Capacity of Civil Service: Action is this area is critical as the current
civil service is bloated yet lacking crucial skills. If nothing is done, resources will not be available to
increase salaries of productive civil servants. And without adjustments to the salary scale, it will be
difficult for the govemment to retain high quality staff. In addition to the large number of civil servants
and the lack of key skills, there are also imbalances in the geographical distribution of employees, and, in
positions (e.g., high administrator to teacher ratios).  Further, the excessive staffing impedes the
development of job descriptions and the streamlining of government as in tends to create pressure to make
"\.work" for the surplus staff. Under the project, support is provided for several aspects of the
government's program to rationalize its labor force, including:
i. Enforcement of retirement rules (through the computerized employee database, Component I);
ii. Removal of payroll entries for persons that do not exist (ghost workers) and those collecting
multiple salaries (double-dippers) (through the computerized employee data base and biometrics
identification, Component 1);
iii. Identification of surplus workers and transfer of these workers to the civil service find (through the
restructuring process with support from the civil service fund, Components 2 and 3);
iv. Design of assistance packages, taking into account targeting, the level and nature of compensation,
and implementation regulations governing the payment of such compensation. Any training or
other services provided to displaced workers will be subject to a market mechanism that allows the
affected worker to determine if training or a service is desired, the type of training or service, and
the provider (public, private, or NGO) (through support to the civil service fund, Component 2); and
v. Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of assistance packages, and feedback of information into
updating of appropriate packages (throuoll support to the civil service fuLnd. Component 2).
IDA intends to provide additional support to other aspects of the labor force adjustmeiit (such as
imbalances in location or position) not directly addressed in this project through sector specific projects.
such as in education, as well as through its public expenditure analysis.
(3) Re-engineer Governmrent Agencies: The third pillar of reform  focuses on the need to
enhance the quality and efficiency of providino specific government services. The re-engineering process
will aim to: (i) streamline organizational structures, (ii) simplify business processes (work flow. policies.
procedures, decision making, staffing requirements); and (iii) put in place basic information systems. To
do this, support will be provided in key areas including to:
critically review the mandates, responsibilities and operational objectives of the pilot agencies. based
on functional analysis;



Page 7
•  remove duplications and overlaps, develop new roles and missions, realign functions and develop
new policies in line with the new mandates, including decentralization initiatives; and
analyze staff requirements, introduce job descriptions, and identify surplus staff.
Since the long-term objective is to improve service delivery and create a performance orientation based
on clearly defined output targets, baseline service delivery surveys will be conducted.
Under the project, the re-engineering process will be phased, starting with selected core ministries
and one or more pilots. In later phases, the restructuring effort will be gradually expanded to other
agencies building on the lessons of the pilots. During project preparation, it was agreed that selection of
the pilots should be based on the following criteria:
*  Reasonable size (starting with an agency that is too large could cause the process to be mired in long
delays and, if mistakes are made, create more difficulty than if lessons were first learned through
experiences in re-engineering a smaller agency);
*  Interface with either the general public or private sector (reform  results are visible outside the
government); and
*  Political willingness, commitment, and motivation to reform the particular agency.
After a Cabinet debate, the Ministries of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Social Affairs,
Labor, and Health, the Tax Authority, Central Office for Control and Audit, Civil Aviation Authority, and
the Prime Minister's office were selected as possible pilot agencies (decree number 291 of 1998). Re-
engineering of the Ministry of Health and the Civil Aviation Authority is likely to proceed in tandem with
this project through financing by the European Union. The Prime Minister's office currently receives
support -for restructuring through a UNDP Governance Program. The Ministry of Labor is supported by
assistance from both the ILO as well as IDA (Vocational Training). Consequently, under this project,
financing will be provided for pilot restructuring of the Ministry of Social Affairs (and its associated
agencies, if funding is not available from the EU) and the Tax Authority.6 The Ministry of Civil Service
is also included as a core ministry.
The project also includes an Innovation Fund. Its objectives are three-fold: (i) to leave room for
changing circumstances and to opportunistically capture reform initiatives by other agencies; (ii) to test
the idea of creating a central fund by which donors funds for restructuring of specific ministries could be
channeled in a consistent manner so that overall reform program objectives are maintained.; and (iii) to
provide a facility that can support small, "quick-fixes" and potential early successes which will help
maintain support for and momentum of the reform. The Innovation Fund will be managed by a member
of the TS responsible for the re-engineering component. Technical assistance will support the design of
the criteria for selection and implementation procedures within the first quarter of the project. The TS is
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the activities undertaken with Innovation Fund financing, using
the experiences to modify and strengthen operating procedures if needed. and sharing experiences gained
across government-.
(4) Build Capacitp: The project supports two dimensionis of capacity building: (i) skills and
activities needed to generate capacity for sustaining and implemeniting a long-termn reformi program: and
(ii) skill development to manage and administer a modern civil serxice. Under the first dimenision. the
project will provide support for managing,  monitorinig and evaluating the overall reformi program. This
also includes support for public informationi and internal communLicationis programs. Under tlle second
dimension. traininig programiis will be supported in several critical areas:
Mid and high level management traininig to start developing an effective management cadre. This
will be done by twinning Yemeni's National Institute for Administrative Science (NIAS) with an
6 Support to thc ta\ authorit) is close!% coordiLatcd nk ith on-aoing techinical assistanicc funded b\ DFID on the introduction of a
General Sales Ta\ and tax administration.



Page 8
internationally recognized school for public administration. The management training programs that
will be developed will utilize a modular approach with limited class-room time and significant
emphasis on on-the-job follow up after each module.
•   Technical training program for users of new core systems (Component 1).
*   A program of training in project management for teams within ministries to develop a cadre of staff to
better able to manage both the civil service reformn program as well as government projects in general.
Areas excluded: This project does not tackle legal and judicial reform issues (a Legal and
Judicial Development Project was approved by the Board in June 1999) nor reform/privatization of the
public enterprise sector (a Privatization Support Project was approved in December 1999). The
government is also embarking on a program of decentralization. However, since the decentralization
framework is still in an early stages, this project does not provide direct support for this effort.
Nonetheless, an indirect benefit of the project will be to help build an appropriate foundation for
decentralization. Improvements to core systems, for instance, will provide the central government with
the tools that are required for effective monitoring of any decentralized system. Also, the re-engineering
process will help identify activities that may be better carried out at sub-national levels.
Finally, to maximize chances of success, this project focuses on the civilian sector and excludes
direct support for reforms in the security sectors. While such reforms may be needed, the approach will
need to be incremental and opportunistic. The Government, has, for instance, already demobilized some
troops and in time other reforms are likely to follow.
C: Project Description Summary
l. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
1. Core Systems Improvement    Public Financial Mgt          14.9    45.2          14.1        47.1
Civil Service Reform
2. Civil Service Fund C')    civil Service Reform             1.6      4.8          4.9        16.4
3. Streamline and Rationalize  Public Sector Mgt              5.1     15.5          1.5         5.0
4. Building Capacity        Institutional Development         4.3     13.0          3.9        13.0
5. Program Management and    Institutional Development        3.8     11.5          2.5         8.4
Administration
Project Preparationi Facility                               2.0      6.1          2.0         6.7
Price and Cost Contingencies                                1.3      3.9          1.1         3.7
Total Project Costs                                          33.0    100.0%        30.0       1 00.0%
I') Includes cost of setting up. administrating and monitoring fund. but not cost of severance or bu! -out packages. Buy-out
packages wvill be financed from government budget.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy
The program of reform will support significant policy reforms, most notably the decision to
promote cost effective, efficient and transparenit civil service. The Government has taken a number of
policy decisions towards this objective (see attachmenit to Annex 2). Highlights include:



Page 9
Decision to clean up the payroll to eliminate those whose employment is not in accordance with the
civil service act. To facilitate this, a civil service census has been completed and an employee data
base established. The next step is to retire all workers who are past retirement age and to implement a
biometrics identification system to identify and remove ghost workers and double-dippers from the
payroll
Establishment of the legal framework for a civil service fund based on principles of (i) transparency;
(ii) targeting reductions; (iii) providing training or other non-monetary support only through a market
mechanisms; and (iv) providing compensation packages that are not excessively costly. Legislation
has been passed, and the next step is to design specific operating procedures for the Civil Service
Fund, identify redundant workers, and transfer them into the Civil Service Fund.
*  Agreement by Cabinet on pilot agencies for restructuring. The next step is to retain consultant
services to assist in the re-engineering process.
*  Approval by Cabinet of a Strategic Framework for Civil Service Modernization that includes
rationalization of public employment and salary structures.
*  Agreement by Cabinet to develop an Accounting and Financial Management Information System to,
among other things, more effectively control the budget and to unify the budget process resulting in a
unified year 2000 budget.
Key policy agreements to enhance the implementation of this project include:
•  Agreement to significantly reduce the size of the public sector during the project period.
*  Adoption of a wage and employment policy June 2001 that is fiscally affordable and that permits
the gradual decompression of wages.
* Agreement by September 2000 that should the government implement any decentralization
scheme, civil service staff will be redistributed to the district andgovemorate levels prior to any
new recruitment.
Institutional
The long term objectives of the reform program is to put in place a significantly different civil
service and public administration. To this end, major changes are required, including the reorganization
and restructuring of government agencies, a redefinition of the mandate of government, mechanisms to
internalize institutional and capacity building within the public administration, and further down the
horizon, introduction of performance based principles, increased customer orientation, transparency and
accountability. Further, to ensure the delivery of these changes, a major overhaul of the mechanisms to
help train and build capacity within the public sector is needed.
As noted previously, in the first phase of the reform program, institutional reforms will focus on:
(i) pilot ministries (restructuring); (ii) the National Institute for Administrative Science (delivery of
training): and (iii) the Ministries of Finanice and Civil Service and Adminlistr-ative Reform (core systemns).
In subsequenit phases, the coverage of entities Nvill be further broadened. and institutional reforms in the
first phase entities will be deepened.
To help facilitate the reform program. the Government has put in place institutional arrangements
to ensure both high--level political involvement and commitment to the direction of the reform, supported
by an implemenitation structure that has sufficient autlhority and discretion to implement the program so
long as it remains wvithin the broad parameters set at a political level. (See Section C4 on implementation
arrangements).
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project will assist the governmenlt improve the management of its economy. With
35 percent of the budget going to public sector salaries for less than mediocre performance. Yemen
cannlot afford to contintie xNitlt the currenlt system. The primary benefit will be to put in place the



Page 10
foundation for a public sector that: (i) delivers services to the public in a timely and efficient manner and
(ii) is more supportive of private sector development because of reduced red tape and rent seeking
behavior. Direct benefits of the project include effective postlposition controls, which are currently not in
place and more timely and accurate reporting on government expenditures. Eventually, in later stages of
the reform, further benefits are expected for: (i) qualified civil servants who will be rewarded for good
performance with higher salaries; (ii) the population which can expect higher quality, more efficient
delivery of public services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
To the extent possible, project implementation will rely on the existing structures. The Supreme
Council for Administrative Reform (SC) will provide policy guidance and support for timely
implementation. Its executive arm is the Oversight Committee. These bodies were agreed on and put in
place by the Government in the context of earlier discussions with the IMF on an Extended Structural
Adjustment Facility.
As shown in Figure 1, the day-to-day management and coordination of the project will be the
carried out by the Technical Secretariat (TS). The TS consists of the following positions:
•  Project Coordinator, responsible for overall project implementation, excluding the Accounting and
Financial Management System (AFMIS) sub-component.
*  AFMIS Coordinator, responsible for the AFMIS sub-component.
,  Re-engineering  Coordinator, responsible for streamlining, restructuring, and re-engineering
component in general and the innovation fund in particular.
*  Civil Service Fund Manager, responsible for operation of the civil service fund.
*  Training Coordinator, responsible for sub-component dealing with provision of managerial training.
Up to two additional technical experts, on an as needed, rather than permanent, basis. These
individuals would be employed, if needed, to assist the Project Coordinator who also has
implenmentation responsibilities for several sub-components including personnel management,
payroll, and project management and change management training sub-components.
The TS will have broad implementation authority and operate under the operating principles and
guidelines established and approved by the Supreme Council. Within this framework, The Ministry of
Finance will have has overall implementation responsibility for the AFMIS sub-component. The
Ministry of Civil Service has overall implementation responsibility for all other sub-components. For the
re-engineering components, individual pilot ministries will have direct implementation responsibility.
However, to ensure consistency of approach, the Re-engineering Coordinator will play an active role.
NIAS has direct implementation responsibility for managerial training.
The AFMIS Coordinator reports to th.e Minister of Finance. The Civil Service Fund Manager
reports to a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reform. fle
Project Coordinator reports to the Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reform. Other TS staff
report to the Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reform througLh the Project Coordinator. The
team is supported by a financial manager and a project secretary. The TS will be responsible for (i)
coordination among the implementing units; (ii) assisting in the development and review of work plans to
ensure consistency within the overall objectives of the program; (iii) approvingTORs and handling all
procurement for the project in accordance with Bank guidelines; (iv) reviewing reports from
implementation units and preparing quarterly progress reports for submission to the Bank; (v) reviewing
withdrawal applications and submitting them to the Bank; (vi) serving as the official liaison with the
Bank for the project; and (vii) preparing annual work programs and updated procurement plans for
submission to the Bank and review by the SC. The performance of TS will be monitored on a regular
basis by the Minister of Civil Service (Minister of Finance in the case of the AFMIS Coordinator) and by
the SC during annlual work-programii reviews.



Page 1 1
Figure 1: Implementation Framework
Supreme Council
chaired by Prime Minister
Oversight Committee
chaired by Minister of Civil Service
Policy Level
.......................................... ........... ........................... ................................................. ........................... ..........................................................................
Technical Secretariat
Position                                           Responsibility                                               Direct Report
Program Coordinator                                Overall Project Implementation except for   Minister of Civil Service
1.4; and components 1.1, 1.2 1.3; 4.2, 4.3
AFMIS Coordinator                                  AFMIS (1.4)                                                  Minister of Finance
Restructuring Coordinator                          Streamlining, Rationalizing and Re-                          Program  Coordinator
engineering (2)
Training Coordinator                               Strengthening training institutes (4.1)                      Program  Coordinator
Civil Service Fund Coordinator                     Civil Service Fund (3)                                       Board of Directors,
chaired by Minister of
Civil Service
Technical staff, as needed (max 2)   If needed, personnel management (I.1,                                      Program Coordinator
1.2) payroll (1.3); other training (4.2, 4.3)
Project Financial Manager                          Project financial management                                 Program Coordinator
Project Secretary                                  Logistical and secretarial support                           Program  Coordinator
Management and Administrative Level
.......... .................... ..............I..   ..........- ................... .................... .......... .................................................................... ......... .......... ... ........................... ................................................
MOCSAR                  ME          S           Pilot                    Ministry A              Minisx BX    |NIAS                              Civil Ser\ ice
Fund
i. Restructuring           i. AFMIS              i. restructuring                i. Role out of AFNI1S                     i. Managcrial           i. ILabor force
ii. Personnel Mgt                                                                ii. Role out of Personnel MLt               training                 reduction
ii. Innoxation Fund applicant
Implementation b! Reforn  Groups  k ithin AXgencics"Ministries that are carry iag out project actiz ities
Implenten tation Level
a. Ministrx  A  and B represent those ministries that ma! appl\ for resources under the innovation fund. or in Nshich the newk core
sxsterns are implemented.



Page 12
The TS will be housed in the existing facilities at the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform. However, the AFMIS Coordinator will be based in adequate facilities at the
Ministry of Finance. The training coordinator will be based at the National Institute of Administrative
Science (NIAS) in existing facilities. The full TS will meet formally as a full team at least quarterly, and
more often by request of the Project Coordinator or AFMIS Coordinator. The quarterly meetings will be
co-chaired by the Project Coordinator and the AFMIS Coordinator. The TS (excluding the AFMIS
coordinator) will hold weekly staff meetings, chaired by the Project Coordinator, to review project
implementation.
Expatriate technical advisors will provide long-term support and mentoring to the Technical
Secretariat. The aim is to eventually move to a periodic approach to international assistance; this will
help avoid the risk of drawing the expatriate experts too much into operational assignments and will put
pressure on national counterparts to carry out the unit's functions. However, in the first phase supported
by this project, it is envisioned that in-country implementation assistance will be required on an on-going
basis.
A Reform Group (RG) will be formed within each agency that is implementing project activities.
This group will consist of civil servants from within the agencies, and they will be responsible for
implementation. The operating principles for the RG include the following: (i) duration of the RG will
be based not on the life of the IDA credit but solely on program requirements; (ii) selection of RG
members will be on merit; (iii) there will be regular performance assessment and satisfactory performance
evaluation is required for continued membership in a RG; (ii) RG members will be given a merit
allowance based on successful completion of specifically defined tasks; (iii) the merit bonuses will be
provided from the government budget as an interim measure until new salary structures can be
introduced. This approach will help (i) maintain ownership in the entities; and (ii) build capacitv in the
entities. The merit allowance is permissible under the Civil Service Law No 19/91 and its operating by-
laws (Republican Decree No 122/1992 and Prime Ministerial Decree No 276/1992). During project
preparation, these costs were estimated to amount to no more than $240,000 per year (10 staff in 10
implementing agencies on a sliding scale that averages $200 per month), averaging $200,000 per year for
the project period. Due to the essential nature of these payments to ensure implementation of the project,
the Government has committed to their payment in its policy letter. These payments are 100 percent
financed from the government budget.
Procurement. The project will require the procurement of goods and service needed to execute
the sub-components. To facilitate project implementation, activities were grouped together as much as
possible so as to limit the number of transactions. The project contains fewer than 100 significant
transactions plus contracts for TS staff and international advisors.  There are about 20 contracts
(consultant services and goods) for which prior review is required (about 56 percent of project costs).
Additionally, prior review will be required for all project staff and international advisors (26.5 percent of
project costs). Furtlher details are provided in Ann1ex 6.
The procurement capacity of the TS was evaluated during appraisal and found to be inadequate
for both the AFMIS sub-component and the rest of the project. As a result, it was agreed the TS would
recruit a long-term. international technical advisor. familiar with IDA procurement requirements. This
advisor will assist in procurement activities and will remain in place until the capacity in the TS is judged
adequate.  For the AFMIS sub-componenit, additional international technical assistance will also be
brought on-board as soon as possible to assist in procurement activities related to the purclhase and
installation of the AFMIS system.
Monitoring and Evaluation. There are several mechanisms built into the project for monitorillg
and evaluation. First, specific to the project, the TS has in place a basic. computerized monitoring svstem
to track key indicators specified in the logical framework. Reports from thlis system will be appended to
the quarterly progress report to be submitted to IDA. Second, there will be annual performance audits of



Page 13
all project activities, conducted by an independent, private consulting firm. These performance audits
will evaluate: (i) performance of the TS and Reform Groups; and (ii) quality of delivery on activities
under implementation. The audits will also provide specific recommendations to enhance perforEmarce
and overcome problems that are identified. The aim of these audits is not punitive. Rather, they are
designed to provide the project management team and the responsible Ministers with a tool that will allow
them to continually upgrade project implementation and provide early feedback to consultants. The
audits will also provide input into the performance assessments of the TS and Reform Groups members.
Third, the project also finances consultant services to assist the government design and begin to
implement a monitoring system to track government performance. This monitoring system will be
broader than that used to track performance under the Civil Service Modernization Project; it will form
the basis for longer-term evaluation of the entire civil service reform program.
IDA would carry out a mid-term performance review of the project and the TS, including those
components managed by the AFMIS Coordinator and the Project Coordinator, and the findings and
recommendations would be discussed with IDA, TS, and concerned line ministries. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the TS will (a) prepare quarterly progress reports, including performance indicators,
and submit them to IDA for review within 30 days after the end of the reporting period; and (b)
undertake annual performance reviews each year during January, with recommendations to be approved
by the Oversight Committee, or when needed the Supreme Council within one month.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Project responsibility falls under
two ministries. The Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform is responsible for the entire
project with the exception of the AFMIS system which is under the Ministry of Finance. Each will
maintain separate accounting and financial management practices for their respective project sub-
components.
The TS financial management unit has been operating for over two years and is staffed by
permanent personnel consisting of: a financial manager, an accountant, and a cashier. It is responsible for
project budgeting and accounting for the non-AFMIS components of the project. It currently maintains
books of accounts on the basis of double-entry book-keeping. Project accounts, which are up-to-date and
of generally accepted standards, reflect project receipts and expenditures and clearly identify the goods
and services procured and works performed. A reasonable system of internal control and checks is in
place. For the AFMIS sub-component, separate accounts will be kept, and the line of reporting
responsibility is to the Ministry of Finance. However to facilitate overall financial management of the
project, a shared financial management unit for the TS will be used. An additional financial manager,
responsible for the AFMIS sub-component, will be competitively selected prior to credit effectiveness.
The accounting system for the AFMIS sub-component will replicate that for the rest of the project, and it
will be in place within one month of the appointment of financial manager for the AFMIS sub-
component.
The budgeting and accouiting system was computerized to aliow for automated production of
Project Managemenit Reports. A Finanicial Managemnetnt Manual which documents the operation of the
Projects needs to be prepared prior to credit effectiveness. This manual will cover the following aspects:
(i) flow of funds: (ii) financial and accouLnting policies: (iii) accountinig system and internal control
mechlanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts: (V) financial reports (including formats of financial managemelnt
reports: (vi) auditing  arrangements: (vii) budgeting: and (viii) organizationi and staffing for financial
management functions.
The project's annual financial statements, including summaries of the Special Accounts activities
and of SOE-based disbursements/PRM-based disbursements will be audited by independent, private
audits acceptable to IDA. in accordance witlh internationial auditilg standards. Auditors will be appointed
for the duration of the project on the basis of terms of reference, to be agreed with IDA. prior to credit
effectiveness. The same auditor vill be used for the entire project includinig the AFMIS sub-componenit.



Page 14
financial management and implementation of which is separate from the rest of the project. Annual
audited financial statements and audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six (6) months after the end
of the Government fiscal year. The cost of the audit is incremental and will be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit. Auditors acceptable to IDA will be appointed for the entire project period; annual
audit reports will be submitted within 6 months from the end of the reporting period.
Financial Management System. The Project financial management arrangements are detailed in
Annex 6. Initially the project will use the traditional disbursement system, and within one year from the
date of effectiveness, the project will convert to the PMR-based disbursement system under LACI. A
simplified disbursement of funds would be carried out largely through periodic advances to the Special
Account based on PMRs. These reports link eligible expenditures with actual physical progress made
under the project. The TS installed the necessary computer software in February 2000 to produce reports
compatible with IDA's PMR-based disbursement system guidelines. A time-bound action plan to permit
PMR-based disbursements within one year of credit effectiveness has been agreed with Government at
negotiations. The TS does not expect to handle too large of a volume of contracts so it is reasonable sure
that it can execute the PMR-based disbursement system without difficulty. The World Bank Office,
Sana'a is also staffed with personnel trained in the PMR-based disbursement system and is ready to assist
the TS as necessary.  Further details of the financial management system are provided in Annex 6,
including the time-bound action plan for enhancing the financial management system which is a condition
of effectivenss.
Completion of the project's financial management manual and appointment of the extemal
auditor constitute a condition of credit effectiveness.
Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, two foreign
exchange special accounts will be opened at the Central Bank of Yemen (one for the AFMIS slb-
component, the other for the rest of the project). The Government will also open two local currency
Special Accounts, to be used for the government's counterpart contribution including resources for merit
allowances.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Scope: There are numerous governance issues that could be tackled in a civil service and
administrative reform program. These include the areas identified in this project (core systems, re-
engineering of ministries, and labor force adjustment within the civil service proper), and others that are
not (legal and judicial reform, security sectors, decentralization). Block B3 elaborates on the rationale for
these exclusions.
Still. the project scope remainis broad. - While considerationi was given to narrowing the focus.
strong inter-connections among project elements warrant a unified program. Labor force adjustmelnt --
leading to ability to reward highi performing staff with adequate compensatioll -- underpinis the
sustainabilitv of reforms in improving core systems and streamlining and restructuring government
entities. These later two areas provide mutually reinforcing benefits. And finally, an adequate personnel
management system, coupled with a transparent re-engineerinig process, provides hard, transparent data
needed to implement and fine-tune a labor adjustment program.
It is also. worth highlighlting at the outset that the comprehenisive reforn agenda set out by the
government is a long-tern program. The Bank's support under this project represents an initial step. To
the extent that the "foundation" reforms supported In this project are successfully implemented, the Bank
should expect that its involvement must be sustained and long-term.



Page 15
Instrument: The project is designed as technical assistance operation, which is supported on the
policy front by a program of adjustment lending for public sector modernization.
Use of a stand-alone adjustment operation to elicit the reforms sought was considered. This was
rejected because technical assistance, substantial training, and equipment would be needed for the
government to meet any conceivable set of tranche conditions. In the absence of IDA resources for these
requirements, the government could use its own resources or grants from other agencies. However, there
would be a high risk that such resources would not be sufficient nor timely. Furthermore, coordination
would be difficult. Finally, relying solely on quick disbursing funds would not provide the needed
flexibility to adapt the program of support to changing conditions as the reforms unfold.
Use of an investmentltechnical assistance credit without complementary adjustment lending was
also rejected. Under such an approach, it is unlikely that the government would be able to cover the one-
time fiscal costs associated with implementing the reform program (e.g., from severance payments).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
,  . : - ' . .X.g,,su.  p. n
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Public sector reform          Inst. Development for Public Admin.    Completed
Public Sector Management Adjustment       S                 S
Judicial and legal reform     Judicial and Legal Development LIC       New              New
Sector management reform      Basic Education Expansion Project       Planned
Family Health Project                     S                 S
National Agriculture Sector Mgt Support   S                 S
Public enterprise reform      Privatization Support Project            New              New
Other development agencies
Financial management          IMF ESAF; UNDP/IMF TA; DFID
Public sector reform          UNDP governance program
Sector management reform      European Union (proposed - health)
IP/,DO Ratings: HS (Highly) Satisfactor\). S (Satisfactory). U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from Projects in Yemen: The lessons of experience v, iti projects in Yemen reflect the
lessons of experience witlh projects elsewlhere - weak oxNnership. poor project management. poor use of
teclhnical assistance. and weak moniitoringo and evaluation. These have been takeni into account in the
design of the project. as explained below.
Lessons from Techlnical Assistance Projects: Projects with sionificant TA componenits have been
particularly disappointincg when thev: are supply driven, lack commitmenit on part of target institutions.
are insufficiently prepared or have short implementation times. are weak in monitoring. and/or place



Page 16
excessive reliance on expatriate consultants. In designing the project, these lessons have been taken into
account:
*  The commitment of the Government is noted in Section D4.
*  All target institutions (MOCSAR, MOF, NIAS and pilot agencies) initiated the request for assistance
and inclusion in the CSM project.
*  The project has been under preparation for 30 months, with the support of a project preparation
facility; and as Section D4 indicates, several actions have already been taken by the government;
*  The likelihood of effective use of TA will be increased by using an incremental approach and relying
on technical audits (by an independent firm to be selected before the first six months of project
implementation) on the quality of consulting services.
*  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed and will be carried out internally by the
TS and externally through the semi-annual technical audit.
Lessons from Public Sector Reform Projects. Projects supporting public sector modemization
have tended to be more successful when they draw on specific but adaptable implementation plans and
annual work programs for each component. Under the project:
.  Implementation and annual work plans are focused on outputs, with evaluation critefia and
performance indicators.
•  Periodic reviews are put in place to watch for early warning signals and make adjustments as needed;
*  Staffing requiretnents for key positions and their accountabilities and responsibilities will be clearly
defined in performance contracts.
Lessons on Labor Force Adjustment Programs: The design of assistance packages in Yeinen --
and the implementation of the program -- will draw on a review of international experience with labor
force adjustment programs that shows such programs often:
* Pay workers too much: More is paid more than would have been necessary to induce them to leave.
These increased costs may bring a retrenchment program to a halt.
• Do not address the adverse selection problem: Often there is a poor of targeting redundant workers;
the best ones accept the buyout, while the worst remain in the public sector.
* Rely on inefficient government training programs: Government provided training is often offered as
an inducement; however such training is usually costly and unsuited to the needs of those leaving
public employment.
Suffer from a revolving door: Workers accept severance pay but are later re-hired. The severance
package is wasted and downsizing is not achieved.
Lessons from Preparation of the CSM Project: The key lesson drawn from the preparation process
is the need to put in place implementation capacity.
*  The project supports extensive menitorinig of project implementationl staff by interniatiolnal advisors.
*  The project supports the design of project management courses that will be offered on an on-going
basis throughout the project. This will benefit not only project staff, but also a wide range of
government officials.
*  Technical audits will also assess program management and make recommendations for continual
improvements.



Page 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A consistent series of actions have been taken to demonstrate government commitment to civil
service and administrative reform. These include the following:
. For the first time since unification, the government established a personnel count by linking the
distribution of each agency's payroll to the submission of its personnel list.
a A hiring freeze is being enforced (except for recruitment of teachers and healthcare workers).
*  For the first time, in 1999 recruitment of all these staff was through open advertisement and based on
transparent selection criteria.
* A civil service census was conducted to form the base of infonnation which is being used as input into
a continually updated personnel record system.
* Action plans are being developed to remove from the payroll those who are illegally employed.
• Some order is being put into the process by which promotions are awarded.
• The Government has effectively used an IDF grant to develop a reform strategy and build consensus
around that strategy. It also completed an assessment of the existing organizational structure (first
time this has been done). Recommendations to remove duplication and overlaps identified in that
study are being finalized.
* A Republican (Presidential) Decree designed to reinvigorate a Supreme Council for Civil Service and
Administrative Reform was issued; this Council has met regularly to discuss the reform strategy which
has now been endorsed by Cabinet.
• The issue of surplus labor in the civil service is being widely debated and was the subject of an open
workshop that discussed the problem in Yemen as well as experiences of other countries in tackling
the problem. A legal framework for the Civil Service Fund has been enacted.
* The government retained international consulting firms -- during the project preparation period -- to
assist in the design of the business process re-engineering program and to begin improving core
systems.
* A unified budget for the year 2000 was prepared and cabinet decision reached to implement a new
AFMIS system that will, among other things, improve budget control.
* A national conference on administrative reform was held with representatives of government,NGO's,
political parties, and academics. Opened by the President and chaired by the Prime Minister, the
outcome of the conference has been the finalization of a Strategic Framework for Civil Service
Modernization that was endorsed by Cabinet.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Thc size of the public sector. its Inefficiency and weak inhstitutiolnal capacity are major constraints
to Yemen's medium  tern  growth prospects.  The Bank's support can be catalytic in getting the
government to take tough decisions, in helpinig to unify donor support under a consistent framework, and
by providing the governmenit w-ith impartial advice on1 the quality of the program actions that are being
taken. The Bank is involved in institutioni building throughout a wide range of sectors in Yemen. through
a variety of instruments includinlg non-lendinig services, IDF grants, and projects. By building on this on-
going support, the Bank can help increase momentum and realize economies of scale in the reforn
program. Furthermore, the GoNerniiient has specifically requested the Bank's involvement in order to use
its wide interniationial experience and reduce the risk of program failure. Finally, the Government has
specifically requested that the World Bank provide leadership amongst the donor community ^- including
close coordination wvitlh the IMF w-hich is supporting civil service reforn through its Extended Structural
Adjustment Facility -- to ensure a well-integrated, focused reforn program.



Page 1 8
E: Summary Project Analysis:
(detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (see Annex 4)
No economic analysis of the entire project has been carried out as it consists largely of technical
assistance activities.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
The budgetary impact of the project during implementation and its operational phase is minimal.
Incremental costs for merit-based salary supplements are estimated at between $180,000 and $240,000
per year; however this is temporary until salary scales can be adjusted. The program is expected to have a
positive medium-tenn fiscal impact. There will be substantial fiscal costs associated with the financing of
severance payments for retrenched civil servants. These costs, however will be quickly compensated by
wage savings (a portion of which are likely to be directed to increased salary scale). Further, this one-
time burden on the budget will be off-set through the PSMAC adjustment lending.
3. Technical:
The project would finance international standards hardware and software for computerization of
core system.  This includes international standard platforms and relational data bases. In terms of
restructuring, the reform of structures, organizations, systems and processes will correspond to public
sector management standards developed in similar projects around the world. The design also reflects the
need for a long-term transition process. It aims at reforming the core of government, concentrating on
those issues that are expected to have the biggest impact in terms of improving efficiency, effectiveness
and quality of public service delivery, customer-oriented transparency and accountability.
4. Institutional:
The success of the program depends on the capacity to manage a comprehensive reform agenda
and the ability to integrate the reforms into day-to-day operations. Significant manpower and appropriate
management capacity are essential for the integration of the different components into day-to-day
operations. Previous experience has indicated that it might be difficult to identify sufficient qualify staff.
Management in many public sector agencies, and its performance and motivation with regard to change is
also often weak, which would have a negative impact on the implementation of the reform. It will be of
crucial importance to build up sufficient and adequate management capacity for the reform process. The
implementation will be best carried out by small implementation teams that are responsible for specific
(sub-) components and which have received adequate training. Therefore, significant training and
orientation for both implementation teams and public sector managers are built into the program. It is
also necessary to give managers enough leeway for the integration of reform. Administrative regulations
and practices whichi might hamper- the reform process will therefore be addressed on a priority bases by
the TS as they arise. Implementation issues are discussed further in block C4 and in the Project Desig n
Summarv (Annex 1).
5. Social:
There are social risks related to the fact that, de facto, the transfer of income to the general
population throuah civil service wages and an extended family support structure currently funlctions as a
part of a `welfare system." While the eventual impact of a streamlined, more efficient public service will
include better services and the freeing-up of resources to tackle poverty alleviation in a more sustainiable,
cost-effective manner, attentioni needs to be paid to direct, short-term  impact of downsizing on the
potentially vulnerable. Also, in a country that has recently unified and is recovering from  internal
conflict, an additional dimension must be considered. This is the extent to which the burdens and benefits
of the reforn program are views as being shared equitably throughout reeiolls.



Page 19
A social and institutional assessment looked at issues such as the impact of labor force reductions
and ways to mitigate potential negative impact, the civil service culture in the reform process, monitoring
improvements to service delivery, dealing with the regional sensitivities, and identifying areas of where
early reforms can be taken with minimal difficulty to demonstrate to the public that a meaningful reforn
program is underway. Furthermore, the foundation for a public infonnation program has been developed
to assist the Government in communicating its reform program and maintaining broad-based support for
it.
Gender issues. There is potential for both positive and negative consequences for women from
the reform program. On the negative side, women could be disproportionately targeted for lay-offs in the
civil service. This could be because of their over-representation in lower-level (more overstaffed) job
categories or because they are viewed as easier to make redundant than a male counterpart. The targeting
mechanism will need to build in protection against this possibility. On the positive side, the reform
program provides a good opportunity to provide upward mobility to qualified women (as well as men) by
opening up positions that have been filled with long-term staff that are not performing. By recognizing
and rewarding performance of women in the civil service, the government can serve as a positive example
for the private sector.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category        []   A  [    B  [x]  C
7. Participatory approach:
During project preparation, all elements of the reform program were discussed with various
stakeholders including civil servants, ministers, parliamentarians, the business community, and other
donors. Civil servants at all levels, private businesses, and poorer communities were involved through
interaction during the social and institutional assessment. The Social and Instilutional Assessment (as
mentioned above in Section E5) included qualitative focus groups discussions (8 communities in 4
governorates) and a quantitative household survey (6 urban and 6 rural communities, each with a
representative sample of at least 50 households). The aim was an indicative assessment of citizen access
to and satisfaction with service delivery, reasons for dissatisfaction, and identification of improvements to
service delivery that could show rapid results. It was found that many of the common causes of
dissatisfaction can be addressed through better management of limited resources, adequate funding for
operations and maintenance, more careful attention to local needs in the planning process, and service
provided by appropriately motivated, accountable, honest civil servants.
The Social and Institutional Assessment also conducted focus group interviews and a survey of
about 400 civil servants in 5 ministries in 2 different locations. Their views were sought on the main
constraints to an effective and efficient civil service and the main problems within their own ministries.
Numerous factors were identified which can be classified in the following nexus:
ILack of appropriate managemiient (poor dialogue within the civil service. inability to in atchl policy
decisions with implementationi. lack- of adequate supervision. insufficient operations and maintenance
resources):
*  Lack of application of existing lawvs (n1o penalties for misbehav ior. corruptioni. non-enforcernent of
retirement rules):
* Over centralized and duplicative administrative procedures:
Lack of training opportunities: and
Poor salaries and insufficient incentives for civil servants to perforn well.
In addition. thie Government developed its Strategy for Civil Service Modernization tlhrough a
participative process. A national vsorkshop xNas held to discuss var-ious reform-l topics. For each topic.



Page 20
several papers were prepared, by academics, government officials, and political opposition. International
experts were brought to the workshop to help facilitate discussions. The workshop was opened by the
President. At the end of the workshop, recommendations that emerged were incorporated into a draft
reform strategy, which was eventually endorsed by the Cabinet and which forns the basis for defining the
first stages of reform to be supported through by this project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Key issues for sustainability of the reform program include: (i) ability to implement a labor-force
restructuring program to free up resources to adequately compensate and motivate employees, (ii)
effective design and implementation of assistance packages to redundant workers that do not target high
productivity workers and that guard against re-hiring -- which in turn will require growth of income
earning opportunities outside of the public sector, (iii) continued political and public pressure for and
support of reform through a long program, (iv) ability to initiate massive training to "retool" civil servants
with skills needed to run a modern administration, and (v) developing systems that provide incentives for
effective, continued reform and good performance. And to keep the reform spirit alive, it will be essential
for the Government to periodically update the public on the progress realized. To this end, the project
supports a public information program to disseminate information about reform program.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
This project carries high risk (see detailed risk assessment below), in particular because of
political circumstances which might hamper the reform process, and lack of capacity to implement a
comprehensive reform program. The design of the project reflects this overall risk assessment. The
project lays the foundation for carrying out the longer-term program. It will test the commitment of
government and its implementation capacity. The success of this project would pave the way for
implementation of more comprehensive reforms and considerably reduce later risk.
During project management, it will be important to keep control of the gap between what
government desires to do in its reform program and what is feasible to successfilly accomplish in a given
time period. If this gap is large, there is a danger that systemic program implementation will fall
wayward to crisis management as implementation staff rush to meet unrealistic goals. In the annual
implementation plan of the CSM program, careful attention will be given to capacity limitations.
Substantial technical assistance is required in all aspects of the project, from project management,
to technical input, to institution building. This, however, must be balanced against the relatively limited
capacity to effectively absorb external assistance. Capacity needs to be developed so that TA can be used
to transfer skills rather than build dependency.
Furthermore, it will be essential to limit turf conflicts and to promote cooperation and
coordination across government. The CSM program needs to be viewed as a broad responsibility across
government and not as the domain of a single ministry or agency.



Page 21
.ii                   ,.               , .     .   -i.iinization Me4sui_
From Outputs to Objective                    _          ,,_-_,,_             ,,,_,,   ___
New systems used by agencies                    M     Extensive training in use of new systems
included in project, introduction of new
systems to be phased, authorization for
salary decompression within restructured
ministries linked to use of new systems,
development of new systems to draw on
input from users
New policies motivate staff                     S    Consultation with civil service groups to
identify priorities and concerns
Implementation process is fair and transparent  H     Use of public groups to monitor and
continually press for transparent
implementation through public information
program
Restructured agencies are "significant"         M     Restructuring framework to set conditions to
help target entry of core ministries and those
that deal closely with private sector
Constituent concerns adequately identified in the  S    Re-engineering process to include
re-engineering process                                comprehensive consultation with "clients"
(can include users of services in the general
public and within the public administration)
From Components to Outputs
Political willingness to implement labor force  H     Release of funds for labor force adjustment
adjustment program (alternative income earning        programs linked to actual implementation of
opportunities available)                              the program, social assessment to help
identify potential productive activities for
groups of workers likely to be most effected
Political willingness to implement actions      S    Institutional set-up relies on Prime Minister
identified in re-engineering process and adequate     to provide overall guidance to the program
inter-ministerial cooperation                         as the chairman of the Supreme Council for
Administrative Reform
Innovation Fund is utilized                     S    Pilot approach; careful monitoring and
evaluation of effectiveness of sub-
component.
Sufficient implementation capacity              H     Project implementation unit to consist of full
time staff seconded to the unit and
adequately compensated, implementation to
draw on skilled staff throughout the civil
service as well as in the private sector.
extensive international technical support
provided to the implementation unit
Consultants will have necessary skills          M     Close supervision of consultant work as well
as regular audits of consultant performance
Support from key constituent groups developed   H      Social assessment to identify concerns of key
and maintained                                         constituent groups within civil service.
public information program included as part
of project
Overall Risk Rating                             H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk). S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk). N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                   Type of Risk    Risk    Risk Minimization
Rating   Measure
Labor force adjustment program creates     Social       High    Transparent program, well
negative reaction because of changed income                     designed-assistance
for civil servants                                              packages, social assessment
Regional conflict emerges                  Social     Modest  Transparent process, social
assessment
Vested interests oppose increased       Governance    High    Public information
transparency supported by project activities                    campaign to increase public
pressure for refonn,
strategic targeting of first
actions to build positive
momentum and support
Implementing agency does not have       Management Substantial Implementation
adequate capacity or commitment to ensure                       arrangements that draw on
proper handling of the above issues                             the authority of the prime
minister, tight supervision
arrangements to rapidly
identify emerging problems
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management Capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
Acceptable financial management arrangements in place, as described in Annex 6, which requires the
implementation of a time-bound action plan.
2. Disbursement Condition:
For the AFMIS sub-component of the project, bidding documents acceptable to IDA concerning the
installation and customization of the AFMIS prepared and issued
3. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Annual performance audits to be carried out by an independent entity acceptable to IDA.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x ] 1. b) Not applicable.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Request for Proposal for AFMIS system needs to be finalized and issued.



Page 23
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all her applicable Bank policies.
Te                      Gelder
Sector Director: Mustapha Nabli
Co      r    er/Director: Inder K Sud



Page 24
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ProjectrDrevatelopd entObeiv          Ou Sector IndicatorsP Sector / Country Reports:                   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To create a modem public administration   Incaeased productivity of public   Service delivery reports   . political willingnessfo
that provides public services honestly and  expenditures (at the same  Human development indicators       fundaientally alter system of
efficiently while encouraging private axpenditure level quality of     Private investment andjob dart      public administration away from
enterprise.                            services improved and/or                                            patronagl towards rnent and
quantity provided increased).                                      efficiency.
Project Development Objective:         Outcome I Impact                Project Reports:                  (from Obiective to Goal)
andicatorasparent applicationof annl                               a program of judicial reform is
To create capacity, institutions and   Consolidated financial          Quarterly MOF financial reports     designed and implemented
systems for improved and sustained     statements for budget execution   based on accurate reports by
utilization of human and financial     produced in timely manner       budget units, annual progress     . financil sector reforms are
resources in Yemen's civil service.                                    reports                            successfully implemented
Employment based on positions   Analysis of employee database,    . privatization progam continues
and transparent application of    annual progrcss reports          and regulatory capacity is
civil service lawi strengahened
s investors perceive govedment
commitenrmnt to sustainind its
reform  program
. internal security situation is
adequate for private investors
. inadequate land registration
system is codeected
poli.ical environment is conducive
to eventually tacking reforms in the
a asecurity and military sectors
Output from each component:            Output Indicators:              Project Reports:                  (from Outpults to Objective)
1. Core systems improved.              1. Operating manuals written    1. Annual progress reports on    .new systems used by agencies
and approved by cabinet         EDB and AFMIS. New systems
resolution. Computerized       fiunctioning in selected ministrics.  .new policies moetivate staff
systems in place where                                           .implementation process is fair
appropriate.                                                       and trarksparent
2. Workforce streamlined and becoming    2. Number of civil servants on  2. Payroll and personnel data     restructured agencies are
more efficient.                        the payroll reduced. High quality  base. monitoring system for staff  "significant'
workers retained.               receiving severance packages.
annual progress reports.         .constituent concems adequately
annual progress rePorts.identified in the re-eng-ineering-
3. Operating procedures wsithin selected    3. Work flow delivery is   3. Work flow surveys that are       process
agencies streamlined.                  improved against service        part of restrLcturing process.
standards in restructured       annual progress reports.
agencies.
4 Capacity to sustaini refornis and    4. Eflectixe program plan ftr   4. Submission of phase 11 reform
administer the public administration   follovN-on reformis developed,  program plan: aniual progress
enhanced,                              civil sers ice training program  reports on training program.
implemented wN ith agreed
nuniber of cix il servants trained
in management of the public
administration and specialist
x_ork sk_ills fIr operat____I core
Sy stemis.



Page 25
Project Components/Sub-              Inputs: (budget for each     Project Reports:               (from Components to
components:                          component)                                                  Outputs)
Quarterly progress and         . political situation conducive to
1. Core Systems Improvement              15.90 (14.60)             disbursement reports for each   implementation
HR Management Framework                      0.79 (0.76)          component                       - willingness to implement labor
Personnel Information Management             6.06 (5.50)                                            force adjustment program
Payroll System                               0.09 (0.09)                                            (alternative income earning
Financial Mgt Information System             8.86 (8.24)                                            opportunities available)
- willingness to implement
2. Civil Service Fund (*)                 1.61 (1.54)                                                actions identified in re-
engineering process,
3. Rationalize Government                 5.19 (4.99)                                              - inter-ministertial co-operation
Technical Support                            0.99 (0.96)                                         . sufficient implementation
Mandate of govemment, consensus              0.11 (0.10)                                          capacity
Streamline and Rationalize                   1.70 (1.66)
Innovation Fund                              2.34 (2.26)                                         . consultants will have necessary
skills
4. Capacity Building and Change Mgt       4.35 (4.02)                                             . support from key constituent
5. Program Mgt and Administration         5.03 (2.76)                                              groups developed and maintained
6. PPF                                    2.00 (2.00)
* 2. Civil Service Fund supports the administration, monitoring and evaluation of the civil service fund. The funding for retrenchment or relocation
packages will be provided through the govemment budget, with resources made available to the Govemment of Yemen through adjustment lending
(PSMAC I and follow-up PSMAC operations) to enable the government to meet, through the budget, the one-time fiscal costs associated with the labor
force adjustment. Input includes price contingencies. Figures in parentheses represent the amount of IDA financing.



Page 26
Annex 2: Project Description
The CSM Project supports four strategic aims of the Government's administrative reform program:
*  Put in place systems that strengthens the capacity of the core ministries to effectively plan, monitor
and control the deployment of the human and financial resources of the Govemment of Yemen
(GOY).
*  Build and develop institutional capacity for better management at the top, middle and lower levels of
the government bureaucracy.
* Streamline and rationalize government operations through restructuring and redeployment of civil
servants within the public and/or the private sector.
•  Effect permanent and lasting change by improving the efficiency of govemment operations and
programs through re-engineering of administrative and service delivery processes.
The project has five components. The first component supports improvements to core systems
including personnel management and financial management. The design, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the labor force adjustment program within the public administration is supported under the
second component. The third focuses on rationalization of government structures, supporting streamlining
of selected pilot agencies and an innovation fund. The fourth component focuses on capacity building
and change management.  The last component deals with implementation support and project
administration.
Project Component 1 - US$ 15.8 (14.6) million7
IMPROVE CORE SYSTEMS
A well-functioning public administration relies on a number and variety of core systems to assist
in the effective management of its resources, both financial and human. While it would be useful to
modernize all of the core government systems, there is insufficient capacity for the administration to
absorb such massive changes all at once. Therefore, improvements in cores systems have been phased as
follows.
The project supports Phase I reforms that are designed as the first critical steps to: (i) increase the
transparency and efficiency with which public resources are used and (ii) move towards a performance
based, professional civil service. It also provides assistance in selecting priorities reforms for phase II
and preparing them for implementation.
The project will support development of clear processes, procedures, and policies for each aspect
of the core system under reform. Wheni core systems are computerized it will be phased and manual
systems will be maintained for some tine (particularly outside of the major urbani centers) ulltil the
computerized system has operated smoothly througilouLt an entire work cycle.
To encourage the use of the improved systems and ensure that they are used properly. the project
will provide extensive on-the-job training. This will be provided througlh two vehicles. First international
(and when available local) techniical assistance will be provided intenisively in the beginning and
gradually phased out over the reform program. The principal aim of this assistance is to mentor civil
service staff in the new skills that they need to acquire. Second. specific training programs (short.
modular courses withl extensive on-the-job componenits) will be provided to staff working with the new
core systems.
7 Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing



Page 27
1.1 Human Resources Management Framework. This sub-component will finance consultant
services and training related to enhancing employment policies and practices, with an aim to revise them
in line with establishing a merit-based civil service. Through adoption of modem human resource
management policies and practices, the government plans to develop and use the human resource
potential of its employees while increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of government institutions and
agencies. This component finances technical assistance packages that help to: review existing policies
and identify shortfalls, develop a human resource management strategy, develop and implement polices
and practices in line with this strategy, develop and implement a new job classification system, and
institute a program of training designed to help effectively implement human resource management
polices. The output of these TA packages include:
Review existing policies and identify shortfalls.
*  Report on shortfalls in existing Human Resources (HR) Management System accepted by the SC.
Develop a human resource management strategy.
*  Report on strategic objectives of HR management accepted by the SC.
*  Report on HR Management Policy Guidelines accepted by the SC.
Develop and implement polices and practices in line with the strategy.
* Report and recommendations on: (i) staffing policy; (ii) position description policy; (iii) training
policy; (iv) staff relations; (v) HR personnel information management policy; and (vi) interim
compensation and benefits policy accepted by the SC.
•  Action plan for introduction of revised HR management policies accepted by the SC.
*  Report identifying enabling legislation/decrees required to introduce new/revised HR policies.
* Enabling legislation/decrees drafted.
* Enabling laws/decrees to introduce new/revised HR policies in place.
*  Report identify changes to rules and regulations needed to introduce new practices.
*  New/revised rules and regulations drafted.
Develop and implement a new job classification system.
* Report on new job classification system and action plan for its implementation approved by SC.
* Implementation of new job classification system on-going.
Build capacity for effective HR management.
Training plan and courses prepared.
* Training delivered to HR staff.
1.2 Personnel Information Management. Until recently, there was no systematic collection and
retention of basic personnel data on civil servants. While manual files were kept, the location and these
files and their content were uncertain. Civil servants were frequently required to produce documentation
from their own files to establish their eligibility for benefits or promotions. The opportunities for fraud.
in termis of false qualifications. chaniged entry date or vears of services, and age (and hence retirement
requiremenits) swere enormiious. Because of lack of informationi. the gov-ernimlenit had no abilitv to assess its
humanl resources base. including its qualifications and distribution of its civil servants. Furtier, the
existing system did little to prev-ent persons from collecting multiple salaries. salar\ payments to continue
after death. or a proliferation of phantoin wNorkers. This sub-componenit supports the compilation and
verificationi of personiel records and their redistributed to the appropriate phvsical location. con,ductillo
an employee census. and developing and implementilig an employee database (EDB) and a forms based
system for updating the EDB. MucIh of this workl has already been completed duringa project preparation.
Additionally, permanent employee identification cards are to be issued thirough a biometrics identification
system which will be financed under this sub-componenit. This identificationi will help to eliminate
person duplicates or aliases.



Page 28
The project provides support for technical assistance, computerization, and training related to
verify personnel records and establishing a count of civil servants; establishing a computerized employee
database to keep up-to-date information on staff to be used to ensure accurate application of salary levels,
promotions and retirement; and issuance of biometrics identification cards to limit fraud. The output of
these assistance packages include:
Verify Personnel Records and establish a count of civil servants.
*  Policy on content of personnel files established.
*  Personnel files verified and missing documentation completed.
*  Personnel count and information collected and computerized from personnel files to serve as the basis
for an employee database.
Develop a computerized employee data base.
*  Forms based employee database system implemented so that information is accurate on a monthly
basis.
*  Transfer of responsibility of managing and updating the EBD to regional information centers.
*  Implementation of civil service staffing regulations (such as salaries, promotions, and retirements)
liked automatically to the data contained in the EBD.
Biometrics system for employee identification.
-  Employee identification cards issued to all civilian public sector employees.
*  All ghost workers and double dippers removed from the payroll.
*  New empioyment continually verified against existing staff to prevent reemergence of double-dipper
problem.
*  Report and recommendation on additional usage of the biometrics system  within the public
administration (e.g., for pensions, payroll linkages, extension to the security sector )
1.3 Payroll. Eventually, the GOY will seek to introduce a computerized payroll system that links
the financial management and personnel management systems. However, during the first phase supported
by this project, the payroll procedure will simply be standardized and streamlined. The following outputs
from this technical assistance will lead to a payroll system that is streamlined and standardized:
* Review of existing payroll preparation practices and workflow completed.
*  New practices and workflow developed to use EDB for payroll list preparation.
*  New practices and workflow piloted and rolled-out.
*  Project plan for computerization of panroll system to link with EBD and AFMIS completed.
1.4 Accounting and Financial Management Information Systenm. This sub-component provides
resources to assist the government develop an AccouLntinig and Financial Management Information
System (AFMIS) that will that will allow for better payment and accounting systems, and improved
financial management so that timely' informationi is available for budget and cash management. The
existing procedures for the release of funds to spending agencies and the control over expenditLures from
the budget are problematic, absorbing much time and effort to administer without commensurate benefits.
The system of reallocation of appropriations inhlibit the managerial function of making bona fide shifts in
expenditure to attain specified objectives, while the ad hoc procedures for supplementary appropriations
do not permit proper priority planning. Cash management is difficult since budgetary units do not report
in a timely. accurate manner.



Page 29
As part of its reform of the accounting and financial management system, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), with IMF-supported technical assistance has introduced a four-level economic classification
consistent with GFS. This new classification will be implemented from the beginning of FY 2000.
Starting then, the approved budget, original budget allocations, and changes proposed in budget
allocations will be registered manually in the MOF in accordance with the revised classification. The
checks presented for payments by the budgetary units should also carry the revised classification. In this
way, nominal changes to the existing Central Bank of Yemen software should allow the MOF to monitor
and report on budget execution by sub-chapters while the longer process of developing and rolling-out the
AFMIS takes places.
Implementation of the AFMIS will be phased, starting with core systems development in the
MOF, linking this to three head quarter budgetary units, and eventually expanding the system throughout
the country. The sub-component will support further development of the financial management
framework, acquisition and implementation of core functions in the AFMIS, initially at a pilot site, and
subsequently within three headquarter units; and build capacity to use the new financial management
system. A condition of disbursement for this sub-component is the preparation of bidding documents
acceptable to IDA (utilizing funds from the Project Preparation Advance Facility) and issuing them. The
AFMIS will allow for a more timely, accurate and detailed posting of government revenues and
expenditures, both in terms of budgetary estimates as well as the actuals. In addition, the system will
optimize the use of the Government financial resources and will provide fiscal transparency. Eventually,
the AFMIS will facilitate the following government business functions: (a) budget preparation at the
beginning of the fiscal year; (b) budget modification during the fiscal year; (c) budget execution (i.e., the
comparison of each budgetary unit's actual revenues and expenditures against the revenues and
expenditures forecasted in the budget); (d) accounting/general ledgers; (e) accounts payable; (f)
commitment/expenditure accounting; (g) receipts and cash management; and (h) government fixed assets.
The technical assistance, computerization and training provided will have the following
outcomes:
Financial management framework refined.
* Report accepted and shortfalls of policies and practices.
* Policies for financial management (including policies on fiduciary responsibility; budgeting and
control policy; auditing policy; financial reporting policy revised if needed.
* Enabling legislation drafted for to support and new/revised financial policies.
* New Chart of Account developed and implemented.
*  Budgetary control system developed and implemented.
Implemiientationi of AFMIS x, ithin MOF.
*  AFMIS functioning in the MOF with paper based system to allow for manual based inputs to inputted
into the computerized AFMIS system.
T Timely and accurate finanicial reporting of government financial accounts.
lInplementation of AFMIS within three large headquarter budgetary units.
*  AFMIS functioning in tlhree large headquarter ullits.
Development of full-scale project plan for full-scale roll-out.
* Project plan for full scale roll-out developed and approved by SC.



Page 30
Build Capacity
*  Training plan and courses prepared.
*  Training provided to users of the new AFMIS system.
Project Component 2 - US$ 1.6 (1.5) million
CIVIL SERVICE FUND
The current civil service is both bloated and lacking crucial skills. Difficult actions are required
to correct this imbalance. Unqualified and surplus civil servants need to be removed from the payroll in
order to free up resources that can be used in part to increase the salaries of productive civil servants.
Without such wage adjustments, the government will not be able to recruit, retain, nor motivate high
quality staff. While dismissal of workers will be both politically and socially difficult, it is critical to the
entire reform program. Without it, the reform program is unsustainable.
As a first step, the Government's focus is on removing illegal employees from the payroll (soft
reductions). Once this is done, in conjunction with data from the EDB, the Govemnment will assess the
magnitude of further reductions that are required. However, even now, it is clear that hard reductions will
be necessary. To handle these reductions, the Government has established a Civil Service Fund (CSF).
Surplus staff, identified through a scrupulously transparent process, will be transferred to the CSF. For an
initial period of time, such staff will continue to receive their wages. As the reform progresses, the
Government will offer a variety of buy-out packages to encourage exit from the CSF. This will release
resources for augmenting budgetary outlays on operations and maintenance and increasing the salaries of
targeted, highly qualified civil servants
The purpose of this component is to provide resources to assist the GOY in the design,
development, implementation, and monitoring of a CSF that is charged with the responsibility of dealing
with surplus staff within the public administration. Technical assistance will be provided to further refine
and test the design of policies, guidelines, operating practices and procedures, rules and regulations and
oversight mechanisms to ensure transparent operation of the CSF, assist for the design of a menu of
options to encourage exit of individuals from the civil service fund. Assistant packages (which the
government will finance with own resources or possibly those leveraged from adjustment lending) will be
designed to take into account targeting, the level and nature of compensation, implementation regulations
governing the payment of such compensation, and monitoring, evaluation and adjustment mechanisms.
Any training or other services provided to displaced workers will be subject to a market mechanism that
allows the affected worker to determine if training or a service is desired, the type of training or service,
and the provider (public, private, or NGO). Resources are also provided for technical assistance and
follow-up surveys to periodically review and assess the CSF's operation with a view to improving its
effectiveness in identifyilg and transferrinig staff to the civil service fund, and implementing the
severance options.
The outputs of the technical assistance packages include the following:
*  CSF policies, rules and procedures fully documenited in Operations Manual.
*  Menu of severance packages and early retirement options developed taking into account targeting. the
level and nature of compensationi, and implementation regulations governing the payment of such
compensation. Any training or other services provided to displaced workers will be subject to a
market mechaniism that allows the affected worker to determine if trainin1g or a service is desired, the
type of training or service, and the provider (public, private, or NGO).
*  Redundant staff identified throuoh transparent procedures and transferred to the CSF.



Page 31
* Severance program monitored, evaluated, and revised based on operational experiences.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.2 (5.0) million
STREAMLINE AND RATIONALIZE
The third pillar of reform focuses on the need to enhance the quality and efficiency of providing
specific government services. The re-engineering process will aim to: (i) streamline organizational
structures, (ii) simplify business processes (work flow, policies, procedures, decision making, staffing
requirements); and (iii) put in place basic information systems. To do this, support will be provided in key
areas including to:
*  critically review the mandates, responsibilities and operational objectives of the pilot agencies, based
on functional analysis;
*  remove duplications and overlaps, develop new roles and missions, realign functions and develop
new policies in line with the new mandates, including decentralization initiatives; and
*  analyze staff requirements, introduce job descriptions, and identify surplus staff.
Since the long-term objective is to improve service delivery and create a performance orientation based
on clearly defined output targets, baseline service deliver surveys will be conducted.
Under the project, the re-engineering process will be phased, starting with selected core ministries
and a couple of pilots. In later phases, the restructuring effort will be gradually expanded to other
agencies building on the lessons of the pilots. During project preparation, it was agreed that selection of
the pilots should be based on the following criteria:
*  Reasonable size (starting with an agency that is too large could cause the process to be mired in !ong
delays and, if mistakes are made, create more difficulty than if lessons were first learned through
experiences in re-engineering a smaller agency);
•  Interface with either the general public or private sector (reform  results are visible outside the
government); and
e   Political willingness, commitment, and motivation to reform the particular agency.
After a Cabinet debate, the Ministries of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Social Affairs,
Labor, and Health, the Tax Authority, Central Office for Control and Audit, and Civil Aviation Authority,
and the Prime Minister's office were selected as possible pilot agencies (decree number 291 of 1998).
Re-engineering of the Ministry of Health is likely to proceed in tandem with this project through
financing by the European Union.  The Prime Minister's office currently receives support for
restructuring through a UNDP Governance Program. The Ministry of Labor is supported by assistance
from both the lLO as well as IDA (Vocational Training). Consequently, under this project, financing will
be provided for pilot restructurinlg of the Ministry of Social Affairs (and its associated agencies) and the
Tax Authoritv.' The Ministr-y of Civil Service is also included as a core ministry.
The project also includes an Innovation Fund. It is possible that the pilot approach outlined above
may preclude acting opportullistically to take advantage of strong reform initiatives in other agencies or
opportullities for quick-hits that could show  a clear benefit to the general population.  This sub-
component seeks to redress this shortcoming by provided a vehicle to support such activ ities designed to
result in a public institutioni becoming more effective and efficient in meeting its mandate.  The
Innovation Fund (IF) is intended to promote and encourage initiatives from within the public sector. The
IF will complement and add to the portfolio of reform initiatives takling place to streamline, rationalize
Support to the tax authorit\ is closel\ coordinated \ith on-going technical assistance funded by DFID on the introduction of a
General Sales Tax and tax administration.



Page 32
and re-engineer government operations. Also, it will be possible to apply a uniform standard set of
eligibility and qualifying criteria for selection of reform initiatives. For this reason, the govemment has
also indicated that it may wish to use the IF to harness and channel resources from donors interested in
providing technical assistance to support similar reform initiatives, thereby ensuring a broad, overall
consistency in the reform efforts, with less chance of duplicate efforts, and within a framework where
activities and results are monitored, controlled and reported using a common yardstick.
The sub-component will finance technical assistance to set up the Innovation Fund; technical
assistance to design and develop the policies, guidelines, operating practices and procedures, appropriate
rules and regulations and oversight mechanisms to ensure transparent operation of the IF; and technical
assistance for periodic review and assessment of the fund's operation with a view to improving its
effectiveness in promoting and encouraging innovation within the public service. Further, there are
provisions for short term technical assistance for proposal evaluation/implementation of specific IF
funded initiatives. Finally, there are modest provisions for office/IT equipment to efficient and effective
operational support for IF operations, and training to IF management/support staff in order to develop the
human resources for effective management of IF activities. The sub-component will provide seed money
to finance an initial selection of IF initiatives.
Finally, the project supports technical assistance to define the mandate of government. There are
well over 80 "departments" which range in size from a ministry such as health (over 30,000 staff) or
education (over 150,000 staff) to the Social Security Fund (8 staff) or the Central Authority for Scientific
Research (15 staff). In addition, there are a large number of public enterprises. The organizational
structures of many of these departments are a spider-web of complexity. And, despite the intricate
siructures, the chain of command generally passes upward with little ability of lower level managers to
take decisions or be held accountable for activities even as mundane as approval of staffs annual leave.
Instead, the complexity seems to derive from a need for a rather large number of important sounding,
high-level positions without attention to the job content and need for those positions. The same rationale
also seems to apply to the establishment of some of the authorities. Ideally, there would be an agreement
on the mandate and functions of government, and the re-mapping of responsibilities into a consolidated
number of ministries and agencies. These consolidated departments could then be set up (streamlined) to
effectively carry out their specific mandates. Such a holistic approach, however, is politically difficult.
As a consequence, a strategic decision was taken to tackle the situation vertically during the first round,
focusing on the structure and organization of particular departments rather than the government as a
whole. The component does, however, provide for a study addressing the mandate and functions of
government, and possible approaches to mapping these functions into a consolidated government
structure.
Project Component 4 - US$4.4 (4.0) million
BUILDING CAPACITY, CHANGE MANAGEMENT
The project supports two dimensions of capacity building: (i) skills and activities needed to
generate capacity for sustaining and implementing a long-term reform program; and (ii) skill development
to manage and administer a modern civil service. Under the first dimensioni, the project will provide
support for managing. monitoring and evaluating the overall reform program. This also includes support
for public information and internal communications programs. Under the second dimension, training
programs will be supported in several critical areas:
Mid and high level management training to start developing an effective management cadre. This
will be done by twinning Yemen's National Institute for Administrative Science (NIAS) with an
internationally recognized school for public administration. The management training programs that



Page 33
will be developed will utilize a modular approach with limited class-room time and significant
emphasis on on-the-job follow up after each module.
*  Technical training program for users of new core systems (component 1).
*  A program of training in project management for teams within ministries to develop a cadre of staff to
better able to manage both the civil service reform program as well as government projects in general.
Project Component 5 - US$4.0 (2.7) million
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
The CSM Program is actually a complex reform program that comprises numerous "projects" that
are described above as components or sub-components. The objective of this component is to provide the
resources needed to set-up and operate a fully functioning program management structure that is based
on: (a) a clear chain of command and reporting structures, (b) clearjob descriptions, (c) clear performance
evaluation criteria for individual managers and implementation staff, and (d) a well-defined, functioning
program monitoring and evaluation system. On-going technical support for program management
(procurement, auditing, project management) will also be provided. In addition to standard supervision of
the disbursement of financial resources, this component supports annual performance audits which
includes review of items such as the overall integrity of the program, the integrity of the processes,
consistency of implementation methodology, and effectiveness of consultant services.



Page 34
Purpose                       ActioIs tk    prior tB         if                 So                                                            ° M              . t
1. Streamline governmenl
Reetlfine ie Io/c  stUite, clar/i/b         Compile description of current roles and    On the basis of study. and taking into       Clear definition of the role of the state in
rees/polsihli/ies                           responsibilities of each ministry and main    account re-engineering recommendations,    Yemen.
agencies in the public administration       outline new functions of ministries/
Reduce the size atii im)i/ove organ ua/ioii   (inicluding laws, organizational structure  agencies.
Of mninistries, ilhoriliews, agen'ies. eic  and/or membership).
.tn'slenlatize LU1 Sn(/OIa/akli:e gonverilmeln/t  Initiate study on organizational structure of
procedures                                  government (TOR agreed, consultant
selection initiated).
Agree on re-engineering framework and
scope of consulting services required for
rc-cnginccring.
Agree on 4 sectors, ministries, agencies, or   Re-engineering process initiated in 4     Efficient and effective delivery of public
authorities in which a re-engineering       sectors, ministries, agencies, or authorities;   services in 4 re-engineered ministries;
process will be initiated; appoint re-      progress satisfactory as defmned in re-      robust program to expand re-engineering
cngineering teams in each; and retain       engineering work plans.                      framework throughout government.
consultant services for preliminary work in
each.
Streamlined interface between the public/
Implement process simplification  for at  Processes  simplified  and  made  more   private sector and the civil service.
least 2  public  processes  (e.g.,  small  transparent in original 2 -plus at least 3
business  licensing,  drivers  licenses,  additional service areas. Identification of
passports, request for utility connection)  remaining areas to which the methodology
can be applied.



Page 35
Purpose                     Actions taken prior to Board for               Second Phase Measures                              End $tate
PSMAC                                   (Indicative)                    .6dicativeO
2. Enhance human resource management
.'ySWeiniltc millUii4CIIiet olpu,f,rsotow/                                         100% of the civil servants with personnel    Operational personnel management
r (ec or/s                                                                          files that are complete with core documents  database.
and in a known location.
AMlovem'ent/ toii rds (i nicrit'I hased C i\ il
.erv,ice                                  Complete at least 95% of the civil servants  Issue permanent, personnel identification
witb personiel files with core documents    cards based on biometric identification.
.4 tition to tracil  ds iiwe itlih ill hei c'i 'i/   and in a known location.
service
Complete computerization of civil service    Core personnel management database
census records to form the core personnel    maintained and up-to-date.
manlagement database.
Operational systems in place to continually   Link personnel database to computerized  Satisfactory use of computerized payroll.
update the core personnel management      payroll system.
database.
Establish regional personnel management
iniormation centers, including the        Agree on revised job and grade            Revised job, grade and wage systems being
definition of responsibilities, identification   classification systems, action plans for their  successfully implemented according to
of staff and initiation of training.      implementation, and initial implementation   agreed action plans.
according to action plans.
Establish a ministerial committee
responsible for developing a revised,    Agree on revised target wage structure.
fiscally sustainable, merit-based salary
structure by June 1999, and implemented a
freeze on previously unspecified salary
increases until the new structure is
implemented.
Develop a training plan for civil servants  Civil servants receiving appropriate
and initiate training in accordance with that  training in line with agreed training plan.
plan.
Identify changes required in civil service  Satisfactory implementation of new legal
laws and regulations to support a         framework.
professional, merit-based civil service.
Necessary legal changes approved by
cabinet and submitted to Parliament.



Page 36
Purpose                      Actions ta          rort    _r                 Seond        e Mer                 .j
3. Implement liborforce adjustment
ncriease procuicviiv oY civil Service and  Agree on and begin to remove ghost       Remove from the payroll, on a permanent    No double dippers or ghost workers on the
/peril adequote comp?enOsalimi levels     workers and double dippers from the        basis, all ghost workers and double dippers,  payroll.
payrolls on basis of census results.      based on unique biometric identification of
all staff.
Aided by census results, begin to enforce  Retirement rules strictly enforced.       Workers meeting or exceeding retirement
retirement rules.                                                                    criteria moved from the civil service to the
pension system.
D)cvelop action plans to remove from the
payroll groups that are not employed in
accordance with the current civil service
law.
Establish the legal basis for a civil service    Civil service fund operating satisfactorily  Civil service fund operating satisfactorily,
fund.                                     including: (i) transfer to the fund of     and sustained net reductions in the size of
surplus staff within restructured agencies  civil service (over census results).
Agree on TOR and select consultant for    and transparently identified surplus or
assistance in developing operating rules  unqualified staff, and (iii) agreement on
and regulations for civil service fund.   buy-out packages.
Any new recruitment, including contract
employment, limited to highly skilled     Continued progress.                        Recruitment of staff based on
workers, linked to identification of needs                                           qualifications.
based on re-engineering process.



Page 37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Component 1 Improve Core Systems                        2.55          12.35         1490
HR management framework                               0.12          0.67           0.79
Personnel information management system               1.00          4.61           5.61
Payroll system                                        0.01          0.08           0.88
Accounting and financial management info system       1.42          6.99           8.42
Component 2 - Civil Service Fund                         0.29          1.28          1.57
Component 3 - Streamline and Rationalize                 0.89          4.23          5.12
Technical support                                     0.09          0.87           0.97
Defining mandate of gv't and building consensus       0.04          0.07           0.11
Streamlining and rationalizing                        0.20           1.49          1.70
Innovation fund                                       0.56           1.79          2.34
Component 4 - Capacity Building                          1.62          2.72          435
Strengthen training institutions and provide training  1.24         2.16           3.41
Build program management capacity                     0.19          0.28           0.47
Build change management capacity                      0.19          0.28           0.47
Component 5 - Program Coordination, Mgt, Admin.          2.10          1.69          2.79
PPF Refinancing                                                        2.00          2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.45         24.27         30.72
Physical Contingencies                                0.15          0.78           0.93
Price Contingencies                                   0.31          0.01           0.33
Total Project Costs                                      7.93         25.07         33.00
ProjectCtb;Ctgr
Services                                                 1.96         11.77         13.73
Training                                                 1.77          2.65          4.42
Goods                                                    1.34          7.61          8.96
Operating Costs                                          2.38          0.24          2.61
Total Contingencies                                      0.46          0.79           1.26
Total Project Costs                                      7.93         25.07         33.00



Page 38
Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Not applicable for this project.



Page 39
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Not applicable for this project.



Page 40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Credit would finance the procurement of:
(a) goods, primarily consisting of computer hardware and software estimated to cost about US$9.0 million; and
(b) services, consisting of: (i) technical assistance, (ii) training, (iii) provision of studies and reports, etc.
estimated to cost about US$17.0 million.
Procurement of all goods and services will be carried out in accordance with 'Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997 and
January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, with modifications acceptable to IDA and in Arabic language, for
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Consultants will be hired following the World Bank's Guidelines for the
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999). The Bank's "Standard Requestfor Proposal: Selection of Consultants (April 1998)'
will be used for all consulting services selected through the quality and cost based selection method (QCBS).
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared by the Borrower for the project and will be
published by IDA in the Development Business (UNDB) immediately after negotiations; the notice will contain
informnation concerning the Borrower, amount and purpose of the Credit, scope of procurement under ICB, and
the name and address of the Borrower's agency responsible for procurement. The GPN will be updated
annually for all outstanding procurement. Invitations to Bid will be advertised in one national newspaper and in
the UNDB for all procurements subject to ICB, including the Accounting and Financial Management
Information System (AFMIS), as well as for all consulting contract with an estimated value above US$200,000.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods: The AFMIS will be procured under ICB procedures, using the Bank's SBD for the Supply and
Information of IT Systems in two stages. Furthermnore, all other goods procurement with an estimated contract
value above US$200,000 will be procured under ICB procedures.  For contracts valued at less than
US$200,000, goods will be procured through NCB procedures. National Shopping (NS) procedures, in a
manner acceptable to IDA, will applied for off-the-shelf goods costing less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$200,000. Such procurement would be on the basis of a comparison of quotations from at least
three eligible national suppliers. If these goods are not available in the local market, lnternational Shopping
(IS) procedures would be followed.
Services: Services will primarily include provision of Consulting Services for preparing necessary
studies, reports. bidding documents for AFMIS. other technical assistance. training, and for arranging
workshops and study tours, as appropriate, for various components. Selection and appointment of consultants
and training to support the program execution will be carried out in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines
referred to above. Quality and Cost Based (QCBS) selection will be used for all assignments with a contract
value of above US$100,000. In exceptional cases and with IDA's prior concurrence, single-source selection
(SS) may be used for specialized assignments. Contracts estimated at less than USS100.000 will be based on1
consultants' qualifications.



Page 41
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB procurement of goods and all other procurement with an estimated contract value of above
US$200,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review. Likewise, contracts for the provision of services by
consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent and contracts for the provision of services
by individual consultants costing more than US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review in
accord with Appendix I of the Guidelines. For service contracts with firms valued at less than US$100,000,
prior review of the terns of reference (TOR) by IDA will be required. Contracts for all Project Management
Unit (PMU) staff will be subject to prior review in accordance with the agreements reached during the Country
Portfolio Performance Review-1998. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review. The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table B. Training within the country and travel abroad, including
workshops and study tours, will be carried out on the basis of IDA approved programs which would identify the
nature of training, personnel to be trained, the duration of the training, institutions where training would be
conducted, cost estimates, and contents of course. Necessary plans will be submitted to IDA on a quarterly
basis for review and approval.
In total, the project consists of 19 contracts for which prior review will be required (55.8 percent of
project costs). Additionally, prior review is required for appointment of all project staff and international
advisors (26.5 percent to project costs). Further, for training activities (not under intemational competitive
bidding), prior review of a quarterly training plan is required (7.2 percent of project costs). Finally, prior review
of terms of reference will be required in about 15 cases (5.2 percent of project costs).
Procurement Responsibilities
The PMU will have primary responsibility for procurement under the project. The PMU will be
assisted by the International Advisor in all aspects of procurement and implementation. Additional technical
assistance will be obtained by the TS for the procurement of the AFMIS estimated to cost approximately
US$9.0 million. Part of the TA services provided by the advisors will involve on-the-job training in
procurement of the TS staff.  Details of procurement responsibilities are covered in a briefing note
"Procurement Capacity of the Technical Secretariat for the CSM Project" which can be found in the Proiect
files.
Procurement Planning (Table C)
The initial procurement plan as included in Table C will be updated periodically by the PMU for
review during IDA supervision mission.
Disbursement and Financial Management
Allocation of credit proceeds
The Project will be implemented over a four and half year period from the estimated date of
credit effectiveness. wnith a target completioni date of June 30. 2005. The Closing Date of the IDA credit
is Decem ber 31. 2005 six montlhs after the project completion date. The proposed credit would be
disbursed against the project componenits as shown in Table D.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Disbursemenits out of the Special Accounat for contracts below the prior review threslhold Would
be made oni the basis of SOEs. Documentatioll to support expenditures finaniced under SOEs xNould be
maintained by the Borrower and made available for review by the auditors and IDA supervision missions.



Page 42
Special accounts
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, two Special Accounts (SA) would be
established by the B0rrower in the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. One Special Account is for the implementation of the AFMIS sub-component, the other is
for the rest of the Project. The SAs will be maintained by the TS as a separate identifiable account to be
used exclusively for Project expenditures. IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of
US$500,000 for each special account. Replenishment applications would be submitted on a monthly
basis. The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary documentation; i.e., a bank
statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA records. The SA and
Statements of Expenditures would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
their report would be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. In managing
the SA, the TS will maintain separate accounting records, by Project component, to facilitate
disbursement, monitoring and reconciliation of the use of funds. The Government will also open two local
currency accounts (one for the AFMIS sub-component, the other for the remainder of the Project), funded
by the Government, to be used for the Government's counterpart contribution including resources for
merit allowances.
Financial Management
Assessment of Financial Management System. The main implementing agency of the Civil
Service Modernization Project is the Technical Secretariat (TS), which is a non-revenue earning entity. It
was created in 1997 by the Cabinet Resolution No. 74 of 1997, to carry out the day-to-day management,
implementation and coordination of the Project activities under the authoritv of the Supreme Council for
Administration Reform, chaired by the Prime Minister.
The TS is responsible for procurement and financial management of all the Project's components
and sub-components, as agreed by both MOCSAR and MOF. It is headed by a Project Coordinator who
reports directly to the MOCSAR and is responsible for the implementation of the entire Project except the
AFMIS sub-component. The AFMIS sub-component is the responsibility of the AFMIS Coordinator,
who is a member of the TS and reports to the MOF. The Financial Management Unit-TS is headed by a
Finance Manager-TS; the Financial Management Unit-AFMIS is headed by a Finance Manager-AFMIS.
Both Financial managers will share the support of an assistant accountant, a purchasing officer and a
cashier. The Financial Manager-AFMIS reports to the AFMIS coordinator for the AFMIS sub-
component and the Financial Manager-TS reports to TS Project Coordinator for all other sub-components.
The TS has an established accounting system and maintains Project accounts in accordance with
sound and internationally recognized accounting practices, including acceptable internal control
accounting system. The TS is also in the process of upgrading its financial management system.
The TS will ensure that all Project-related activities are reflected in the Project accounts and
financial statements and related documentation of operation maintained in the computerized system. with
proper controls over data. The TS  is currently working towards computerizationi of the accountillg
system with a good information technology support which will have the facility to generate various
financial reports, including PMR. in line with the IDA LACI requirements. Currelntl, finalncial
informationi from the manual accountin'g system is used to prepare managemenit reports on a limited basis.
A Financial Accounting Management Manual ("Manual") will be prepared accordilg to the
newly designed computerized accounting system, in order to document the various accounting systems
and procedures. The Manual will be prepared in Arabic and English to document the operation of the
Project Financial and Accounting Management System. This Manual would be formally adopted by the



Page 43
Project as the document that would govern its financial accounting management system. The Manual will
cover the flow of funds, financial and accounting policies, accounting system and internal control
mechanisms, Chart of Accounts, financial reporting (including formats of Project financial management
reports), auditing arrangements, budgeting, and organization and staffing for financial management
functions.  The Manual would be periodically updated and improved based on implementation
experience.  A firm of Certified Public Accountant will audit the system of transaction as an added
ineal control mechanism.
Flow of Funds. The Govermment of Yemen (GOY) would pass on the IDA funds to the Ministry
of Finance (MOF), for purposes of the AFMIS sub-component (the MOF component of the Project) and
to the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Refonn (MOSCAR), for purposes of the remainder of
the Project (the MOSCAR components of the Project). GOY will bear the foreign exchange risk. GOY
would provide counterpart funds for the Project through budgetary allocations to both MOSCAR and
MOF under two identifiable items: one item for the MOF component of the Project and the other item for
the MOSCAR components of the Project. Budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget for
Project activities prepared by the Project Coordinator within TS (for the MOSCAR components of the
Project) and the AFMIS Coordinator within TS (for the MOF component for the Project). The TS would
disburse Project funds to finance eligible expenditures under the Project.
Financial and Accounting Policies. Financial and accounting policies for the Project will be
developed and included in the Manual to ensure transparency and uniformity, provide clarity regarding
financial aspects to the various interested parties, and to enforce accountability. These policies, inter-alia,
cover the following aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as Project expenditures including
their classification; (ii) expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement under the IDA Credit;
(iii) Project accounting policies; and (iv) provision and accounting of funds provided as advances to TS.
These policies would include aspects such as efficient management and deployment of funds, internal
control policies, etc.
Project Accounting System. The TS would be responsible for its own Project financial
management, including budgeting and accounting. It would maintain separate books of accounts for each
of the MOSCAR components of the Project and the MOF component of the Project. It would also
prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit
of the financial statements. The TS currently maintains books of accounts on the basis of double-entry
bookkeeping and Project accounts.  Project records and accounts reflect the Project receipts and
expenditures and clearly identify the goods and services procured and works performed. Funds received
from different resources are identified separately and reflected in the Project accounts and financial
statements. The trial balance shows all Project-related receipts, expenditures, and other payments, as well
as the TS operational costs. Project financial statements and financial reports are fully based on the
Project books of accounts and substanitially generated from the financial accountino system. The TS will
2zenerate and maintaill separate vouchers and supporting documilentation for expenditures relating to each
of the MOSCAR components and the MOF component.
Although disbursements are initially to be made usinlg traditional disbursement procedures. TS
Will submit quarterly Project Manaaemenit Reports to IDA. In this respect, the TS has already started
installationi of accountinag software with PMR-based disbursemenit capabilities and ilcorporated N"ith
internal control and checks. Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linkied
to finanicial costs would be maintainied as part of the Project finanicial maniagemenit system. Initially this
would be maintained for some high cost items, whichl account for a significant portion of Project cost, and
for items for which data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items will be identified and
will be indicated in the Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during imiplemenitation. These
finanicial accountinig activities will be replicated for purposes of the MOF componlenlt.



Page 44
Internal Controls. Current policies and procedures have been set in the TS to provide
reasonable assurance of (a) a proper authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and
records; and (c) separation of custody of cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of
authorization from record keeping.
Specifically, the Project financial, accounting management system includes the following internal
control mechanisms: (i) operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets; (ii) adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent
financial and accounting policies which would govern financial management of and accounting for the
Project (as described earlier); (iii) at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies,
procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures,
appropriate documentation, levels of authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical
verification, etc; and (iv) establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, to include
concurrent audit (as described below). These policies and procedures described in this paragraph are
provided for in the existing Manual and would be reviewed and updated periodically;
Financial Management Reports. Quarterly financial management reports for the Project would
be generated from the TS computerized financial management system. These reports would be
management-oriented (ie., summaries, rather than transactional details) and would be used for Project
management by TS. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and
analysis of major variances, including sources and application of funds (by components and expenditure
categories), and on physical parameters and unit rates for selected key items; (ii) expenditures by
disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for the next two quarters. Formats of the reports will be set out in
the Manual.
Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA on an annual basis. PFS
would include: (i) a statement on the sources and utilization of funds or balance sheet, indicating funds
received from various sources, Project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the Project. This would
also include appropriate schedules classifying Project expenditures by components, and expenditure
categories; (ii) a Special Account reconciliation statement; and (iii) a statement of withdrawals from the
IDA Credit made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to
the IDA not later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year (ie., not later than June 30 for the fiscal
year ended on December 31 of each year).
Auditing Arrangements. A firm of certified public accountants would be retained to audit the
accounts and financial statements of the Project. The annual audited Project financial statements would
be submitted to IDA within 6 months of the close of the GOY fiscal year. The terms of reference (TOR)
and qualifications of the firm of certified public accountants will be included in the Manual and reviewed
by IDA. The cost of the audit would be eligible for financillg under the IDA Credit. IDA's Guidelinles for
selection of consultants would apply to the engagement of the firm of certified public accounitants.
The audit referred to above would be comprehensive and would cover all aspects of the Project
(i.e., all sources and uses of funlds). The audit would be carried out in accordance with international
standards of auditing. The terms of reference of the auditor include both the obligation to audit financial
transactions, and the obligation to carry out an assessment of the operation of the financial management
system per se, including a review of internial control mechanisms. The audit would also cover aw, cost-
based consultancy or other contracts for whichl no supporting documentation is provided to TS. This
would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit. The
auditing firm would be appointed before the start of the Project. The auditing firn would initially be
appointed for one year. Depending on satisfactory performance, the contract would be extended for a



Page 45
maximum period of two (2) additional years. To ensure rotation of auditors, a different firm may be
appointed subsequently.
Key Staffing.  Currently, the TS has a Project Coordinator with overall responsibilities for
planning, implementation and reporting on the MOSCAR components of the Project, a financial manager,
an accountant, a purchasing officer, a cashier, and an administration assistant. The TS also employ two
experts in information technology. All staff are recruited according to IDA guidelines, employed on a
full-time basis and on renewable annual contracts. An AFMIS Coordinator, responsible for overall
planning, implementation and reporting of the MOF component of the Project will be recruited on a
competitive basis. Reporting to the AFMIS coordinator is the AFMIS financial manager. The AFMIS
financial manager would be recruited on a competitive basis without delay. Salaries of the TS staff are
paid under the credit, except the cashier whose salary is borne by the Government.
Areas for Improvement.  Overall, the manual accounting system  is working but the
implementation of the computerized accounting system will provide for an efficient, more accurate
accounting of Project transactions. Areas where for improvement is warranted include: (i) training for the
TS professional staff in financial planning and management, operation of system-based internal controls,
and financial policies; (ii) training of the TS financial staff in basic computer operations (spreadsheets,
word processors. databases, operation of the computerized financial management system, etc.); (iii)
ensuring better linkages between physical and financial activities, including expanding the items for
which physical data is captured in the financial management system; (iv) developing better linkages
between physical and financial functions in the TS; and (v) development and implementation of internal
service standards for all finance and accounting functions. These, as well as other improvements, would
be tackled on a continual basis during Project implementation.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps. The design of the TS financial, accounting
management system is expected to be completed by March, 2000. A financial accounting management
manual of procedures, documenting the financial accounting management system, will be prepared and be
finalized shortly after July, 2000. Draft terms of reference for the Project's financial audit have been
prepared. The process of recruitment of a firm of certified public accountants will start in June, 2000.
The auditors are expected to be appointed by July 31, 2000. The time bound financial management action
plan presents the key actions required prior to project effectiveness.
Risks. The main risk related to the financial management aspects of the Project are possible
delays in preparation of Project management reports and that the quality of the reports may be of variable
or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the TS staff have not previously prepared Project financial
statements based on PMR-disbursement system. Timely preparation and use of the Project management
reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective Project management.
The risk-mitieation factors are the substantial up front actions wvhich have been taken/will be taken
inclUding: (i) designi of a comprehensive finanicial maniagemiienit system (w,hiclh is noxN being augmented
through the engagemenet of consultanit services to prepare the financial. accounting management manual);
(ii) computerization of the financial management system:  (iii) recruitment of key financial and
technology staff: and (iv) trainingo of staff on1 the preparation of Project management reports (PMRs)
through Project managemllent trial reportiln  USillg the prerious quarters Project activities and financial
transactionis. This training \ill begin in August 2000. Pendingo  satisfactorN generation of PMRs.
disbursements from the IDA Credit will be not be made on the basis of PMRs. but will rather be made on
the traditional disbursemenit procedures. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method.
after the financial managnement system is satisfactorily operated for at least three quarters.



Page 46
TS FINANICAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Action                     Responsible Entity       Completion Date
Upgrade computerized accounting     TS and Consultant            March 31, 2000
system.
Revise and update Financial Accounting  TS and Consultant       July 31, 2000
Management Manual of Procedures and
Policies (Chart of Accounts, Job
Descriptions, etc.)
Recruit additional staff (AFMIS     MOF                          July 31, 2000
Coordinator and AFMIS Financial
Manager)
Test PMRs using data of 2000 Quarter I TS and IDA                Quarterly starting
December, 2000
Appoint private auditors (prior to and as  TS                    July 31, 2000
a condition of effectiveness)
Open two Special Accounts           TS                           July 31, 2000
Complete the MOF component financial TS                          June 30,2000
accounting system set-up



Page 47
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Services including training                                     18.15                      18.15
workshops and study tours                                       (17.4)                     (17.41)
2. Goods and Equipment                     8.80         0.85         0.20                      9.85
(8.15)       (0.57)       (0.18)                    (8.87)
3. Operating Costs                                                    1.97      1.00           2.97
(1.63)    (0.00)          (1.63)
PPF refinancing                                                      2.00                      2.00
(2.00)                    (2.00)
Total                                   8.80         0.85        22.32       1.00           33.00
(8.15)       (0.57)     (21.22)    (0.00)          (30.00)
Note:  ICB   = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
Other = As described in text
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed are merit allowance.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit, balance amount is to be financed by the
Government
For details on presentation of'Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02. "Procurement ArranEements for lnrestnient Operations."
Details on Consultant Serx ices can be shown more easily in the Table Al formiat ladditional to T'able A. where applicable).



Page 48
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant and Training Services
Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Coiistdtaf.trcz*es                                Selection Meth.Total o
QCBS    QBS         SFB       LCS        CQ        Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms                    6.9                                      2.0        1.5                   10.4
B. Individuals                                                       6.7        1.0                    7.7
Total        6.9                                      8.7        2.0                    18.2
NOTE:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  = Quality Based Selection
SFB  = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  = Least-Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Page 49
Annex 6, Table B:
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
1. Goods
200 or above       ICB                           All
(8.8)
50- 200          NCB                            All
(0.9)
50 or less       Shopping                       None
2. Consultant Services
including training
(a) Firms                         100 or above       QCBS                           All
(3.6)
100 or less       CQ                            TORs
(b) Individuals                   100 or more       CQ                             All
(International                 (6.7)
advisors)
50 - 100         Individual                     All
(0.6)
50 or less       Individual                     None
(0.3)
(c) Training                     200 or above       QCBS                           All
(3.3)
200 or less                                 Q training plan
(1.5)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        (23.9)
OVERALL PROCUREMENT RISK ASSESSMENT:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 monith (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review.'audits )



Page 50
Annex 6, Table C: Initial Procurement Plan and Estimated Schedule
Sc*hedulet(Caklendar Year')~
st. Aount   Dvittion   Bid   Cobtract     Delivery
Package                         UISV:;   to Bid,              Sige        Cmleted
HR Management Framework Development
TA For Review existing and      QCBS         232,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q4,2000        Q2,2001
develop HR ( strategy, policies
and practices)
TA For Design and develop new    CQ           48,000  Ql,2001   Ql,2001 Q2,2001       Q4,2001
job classification system
TA TO Implement new job         QCBS          106,000  Ql ,2002  Q2,2002 Q2,2002      Q2,2004
classification system &HR
Management Training
International TA to provide HR  QCBS         399,000  Ql,2001   Q2,2001 Q2,2001       Q3,2004
training capacity            I         I       _I                       I        I
Personnel Information Management System (I)
TA For Develop and implement   QCBS          221,000  Q3,2000  Q3,2000 Q3,2000 I    Q2,2002
Employee Database and Update
system                                                                           I
Biometrics System for Employees (1)
TA For Finalize Technical       QCBS          125,000  Q3,2000  Q3,2000 Q3,2000       Q4,2000
Specifications and Procedure
Biometrics System
Biometrics System Provisioning &    ICB     5,065,000  Q3,2000  Q1,2001 Q2,2001       Q1,2002
Support ( Hard & Software &
Support
National TA For User Support     CQ           90,000  Ql,2001   Ql,2001 Q2,2001       Q3,2002
National TA For Operations       CQ           87,000  Q 1,2001  Q1,2001 Q2,2001       Q3,2001
Support                      I   _     I                       I        I        I
Payroll System (I)
TA For Streamline and            CQ           88,000| Ql,2003  Ql,2003 Q2,2003        Q4,2003
Standardize Payroll Preparation        I
AFMIS SYSTEM
National TA For Review           CQ           62,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q1,2001        Q4,2002
/Develop/ Implement /Design
AFMIS Systemi
lWtemational TA For Review     QCBS          248,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q].2001        Q4.2002
/Develop/ Implement /Design
AFMIS System
Office Equipment For AFMIIS     ICB         3.736,000  Ql.2001  Q3.2001  Q4,2001      Q3.2002
Provisioning -MOF pilot and three
large headquaner budget units
TA For Develop AFMIS 11          CQ           62,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q1.2001        Q3.2004
lmptementation Plan
TA For Build Financial           CQ           70,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Ql,2001        Q3.2004
Management Capacity (1)
Provide Financial Management   QCBS          400,000  Q4.2000  Q2,2001 Q2,2001        Q3.2004
Training                      _



Page 51
Schedule (Calendar Year)
Est. Amountl Invitation   Bid   Contract      Delivery
Package            Procedure     J USD      to Bid    Opening  Signed       Completed
Streamline Rationalize and Reengineer Govt.
Intemational TA (175) (Technical   CQ        875,0001 Q4,2000  |Q2,2001 I Q2,2001      Q4,2004
Support)                     I         I)
MANDATE OF GOVERNMENT AND CONSENSUS
TA For Define new structure, rolesi QCBS     113,0001 Q1,2001  j Q 1,2001 Q2,2001 I    Q4,2002
and major processes          I         I
STREAMLINE AND RATIONALIZE
TA For High level Reengineering   QCBS      1,700,000i Q2,2001  |Q4,2001 Q4,2001       Q4,2003
of Core Ministries
INNOVATION FUND
TA To Set up the IF          I QCBS  |       186,000|  Q4,2000  |Q4,2000 |QI,20011    Q3,2001
Operate and Administer IF (I) Funds (all contracts <$300,000)
Local TA Unit                    CQ          300,000  Q1,2001  |Q2,2001 Q2,2001        Q4,2004
|International TA Unit        CQ/QCBS       1,300,000  Ql,2001  I Q3,2001 I Q4,2001     Q4,2004
I.                  I ___                             .1.~~~  ~~         ~ I _    _   I _ _
CIVIL SERVICE FUND
International TA (175)           CQ          875,000  Q2,2000   Q2,2000 Q2,2000        Q4,2004
ITA For Design & Develop &Set    QCBS        296,000  Q2,2000   Q2,2000 Q2,2000         Q4,2004
up & Evaluate
Workforce Adjustment Program Support (I)
National TA For Design/Develop   CQ           55,000  Q2,2001   Q2,2001 Q3,2001        Q2,2003
criteria for wvorkforce reduction
International TA For            QCBS         147,000  Q2,2001   Q2,2001 Q3,2001        Q2,2003
Design/Develop criteria for
workforce reduction
Strengthen Training Capacity
Strengthen Training Institutions (1)
National TA For Update overall    CQ           18,000  Q1,2001   Ql,2001  Q2,2001      Q4,2002
Civil Service training needs
International TA For Update overall QCBS     164.000  Q1.2001   QI.2001  Q2.2001       Q4.2002
Civil Service training needs
Augment InStitUtions capacity to    QCBS  3I097.000  Q4.2000   Q2.2001  Q2.2001I       Q4,2004
|meet CS training needs ( Training )
TA For Design'Develop programs   QCBS        126.000| Q4,2000   Q4.2000 QI12001        Q4,2004
,for specific areas            I     _    _    _      _     _     _ 



Page 52
Schedule (Calendar Year)
Est. Amount  Invitation   Bid  | Contract   Delivery
Package            Procedure    USD        to Bid   Opening  Signed      Completed
Build Project Management Capacity (I)
TA For Prepare and plan for     CQ           70,000  QI,2001  Ql,2001 Q2,2001       Q4,2004
Project Management Training
Training                       QCBS         400,000  Q1,2001  Ql,2001 Q2,2001       Q4,2004
Build Change Management Capacity (I)
TA For Prepare and Plan for     CQ           70,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q4,2000 |    Q2,2003
Change Management Training
Training                       QCBS         400,000  Ql,2001  Q2,2001 Q2,2001 |    Q2,2004
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
TA For Phase 11 Project Planning  CQ         82,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 QI,2001       Q4,2004
Computer Equipment              NS          110,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q 1,2001      Q2,2001
Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q4,2000
TA For External Semi-annual     CQ          200,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q 1,2001      Q4,2004
Technical and procedural audits
TA For Design/Develop          QCBS         179,000  Q4,2000  Q4,2000 Q4,2000
P:anning/Deployment/Monitoring
System
tStaff in -place or as needed   CPPR
__  _______    21,754,0001
QCBS  = Quality and cost based Selection
QC     = Quaiifications based
ICB    = International Competitive bidding
NS     = National Shopping
CPPR  = Country Portfolio Performance Review - 1999



Page 53
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
g                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~uiI P.cttg
Goods                             4.02          4.85      100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local expenditures
Services (including training)     4.05         13.35      100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
Operating costs                   0.17          1.45      80%
TOTAL                             8.24         19.65
PPF -refinancing                         2.00
Total                                   30.00
Includes price contingencies



Page 54
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     13 months            30 months
First Bank mission (identification)            09/14/1997           09/14/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    07/1511998           01/20/2000
Negotiations                                   10/15/1998           03/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/01/1998           09/31/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Ministry of Finance, concerned
line-ministries
Preparation assistance: Project Preparation Facility
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Linda Van Gelder                       Task Team Leader
Giulio de Tommaso                      Public Sector Management
Lucie Tran                             Project Costing
Harjit Singh                           Consultant, Public Sector Management, Project
Planning and Costing
Jaccques Dusseault                     Consultant, Public Sector Management
Martin Rama                            Labor Force Restructuring
Gloria La Cava                          Social and Institutional Assessment
Jeannie Yamine                         Public Information Strategy
Josephine Masanque                      LACI Specialists
Afif Al-Saqqaf
Somin Mukherji                         Senior Financial Analyst, PAS at the Field Office



Page 55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project implementation manual
Includes detailed costs and financing plan; implementation arrangements; implementation plan; key indicators for
monitoring progress in the physical implementation and reaching project objectives.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement and Finanical Management Capacity of the Technical Secretariatfor the CSMproject.
The Civil Service Fund and the Modernization of the Public Sector in Yemen
Describes the extent of overstaffing, the main principles for the CSF, and the operating steps for implementing the
labor force adjustment program.
Developing a Public Information Strategyfor Reform Management under Yemen's CSMProject
Describes the current information/media environment and suggestions for enhancing the effectiveness of public
outreach.
Social and Institutional Assessment
Describes the needs of the poor and their expectations of government, characteristics of the civil service, and potential
of small and micro-business as vehicles for job creation and easing transition of civil servants into the private sector.
Public Sector Management: Comprehensive Development Review Phase I
Synthesizes information on performance problems, financial management system, civil service staffing and
administration, and decentralization initiatives.
C. Other
Conference Proceedings and Papers (Arabic)
A volume with about 25 papers presented at a national conference on administrative reform
Strategic Framework: Civil Service Modemnization (English version)
Document developed on the basis of National Workshop on administrative reform in which around 70 papers were
presented).
Employment Staffing and Retirement Plan (Arabic - Preliminary Draft)
Provides an initial cut at an employment, retirement and wage plan through the year 2008. Further work is needed.
however. on the sustainability aspect.
Reports lo Cabinet oni Civil Service Reform Progra-77 (Arabic)
Reports to Oversight Committee on Civil Service Reform Program  (Arabic}
Censls Resuilts and Variozus Anialy tical Reports (Arabic)
Laws and Decrees
*Includin- electronic files.



Page 56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Yemen, Republic of
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of February 29, 2000
Closed Projects  89
Difference
Last PSR                              Between Expected
and Actual
Board                                       Supervision Rating  Original Amt US$ Mln  Disbursements a
Date
Fiscal
Year Active Projects                        DO bl   IP b/       IDA  Cancel. Undisb.   Ori.       Frm
Rev'd
1991  P005806 Multi-Mode Transport             S        S       35.80    0.00    5.25   -3.07     2.33
1992  P005836 Land and Water Conservation      S        S       32.80    5.55    2.00    6.01      1.09
1992  P005810 National Agriculture Sector Mgt.    S     S       14.40    6.00    1.55    6.60      1.01
1993  P005904 Basic Education                  S        S       19.70    0.00    4.66    4.35     1.00
1993  P005910  Family Health                   S        S       26.60    0.00   15.07   15.48    11.47
1994  P005911  Education Sector                S        S       33.00    0.00   20.99   16.83     2.57
1996  P043109 Public Works                     S        S       25.00    0.00    1.18    0.36     0.00
1996  P041267 Transport Rehabilitation         S        S       37.00    0.00   21.43   22.62     6.76
1996  P005912  Vocational Training             S        U       24.30    0.00   16.53   13.52     0.00
1997  P048522  Flood Emergency                 S        S       30.00    0.00    8.09    7.05     0.00
1997  P043367 Taiz W.S. Supply Pilot           S        U       10.20    0.00    4.86    5.45     4.07
1997  P041199  Social Fund Development        HS       HS       30.00    0.00    6.60  -11.26     0.00
1998  P005902  S.Governorates Ag. Privatization    S    U       24.70    0.00   22.01    9.78     0.00
1998  P039171  Seeds & Agricultural Services   S        S       12.50    0.00    8.85    3.07     0.00
1999  P057915  Legal & Judicial Development    S        S        2.50    0.00    2.42    0.17     0.00
1999  P060132 Public Works II                  S        S       50.00    0.00   43.12    7.87     0.00
1999  P050530 Sana'a Emergency Power           S        S       54.00    0.00   37.99    9.37     0.00
1999  P005907  Sana'a WS/Sanitation            S        S       25.00    0.00   20.33    1.14     0.00
2000  P049735 Privatization Support            S        S       10.90    0.00   10.89    0.00     0.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal
b. DO - Development Objective, IP - Implementation Progress
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                     Disbursed
FY       Company           Loan                  Equity       Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi
Approval
1999   ACSM                          12.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
1998   Radfan                        3.8         0.0          0.0     0.0     3.8      0.0     0.0
Total Portfolio:                      15.8         0.0         0.0      0.0     3.8     0.0      0.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity       Quasi   Partic
None



page 57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
9/22199
M. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North      Low-
Yemen      Africa  income       Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       16.5       285     3,515                 Ulfe expexncy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    300      2,050       520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       4.9       586     1,844                       --
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Pqulation (X)                                          2.9        2.2       1.7                     A
Labor force (%)                                        3.4        3.0       1.9     GNP                             Gross
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~per                                                              primary
Mostrecentsamte(latest yearavailable,1992-98)                                       capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   19
Urban populabon (% oftotalpopulation)                  36         58        31
life expectancy at birth (years)                        54        67        83
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               96         49        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             29         14                         Access to safe wabr
Access to safe water (% of population)                  39        81        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   58         38        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  70         96       108               Yemen Rep.
Male                                                100        103       113            ----- Low-income group
Female                                               40         89       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                                                5.7      5.4
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                                    21.2      21.5
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              ,                44.0      34.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                       12.8      2.4
Gross natonal savings/GDP                                       23.6       17.5
Current account balance/GDP                                      2.4      -4 0      D
Interest payments/GDP                                            0.5      0o9       Domestc   _- - In
Total debtVGDP                                                  67.3
Total debt servicelexports                                        2.6
Present value of debttGDP                                       52 52.5
Present value of debt/exports                                   80.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ,,      3.8      5.4        3.8      5.1             -Yemen, Rep.
GNP per capita                               -1.0     -0.5       4.6       2.3             - -  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 6.9      7.1       -9.2      3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment {Y)
(%6 of GDP)                                                                        30
Agriculture                                                      16.2      16.2
Industry                                                        44.9      44.9    20
Manufacturing                                                  10.5      10 5     10
Services                                                         38 9     38.9
Private consumption                                             685       757      -10    93   94   e    96   97   98
General government consumption                                   18 7     219                      GDI      0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                                   52 4      53 6
1977-87  1988.98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            4 3        2 2       07     60
Industry                                               6 4        34        38     40
Manufacturing                                        1 6        34        3 8
Services                                               1 7        9 6       61    20
Private consumption                                    1 9       -3 0      60 00
General government consumption                         3 0      49 1       12 1            93    4          93   97
Gross domestic investment                              8.8        6 8      -27    .20
Imports of goods and services                          3.0        6 1      -0 7            -     Expors     0  Imports
Gross national product                                 2 6        2 0       7 3
Note 1998 data are preliminary estimates
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing the diamond wilt
be mcomplete



page 58
Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987        1997      1998      lnatiou (#)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           so -
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..        6.3       8.5     50 1
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..        7.0      -4.6     40 -
Government finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP, includes cuwrent grants)                                                   0                   _____ 
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       37.7      29.8    -20-    53    99 Ss    9          97    Ss
Current budget balance                          ..       ..        6.0       1.4              G GDP defator  -o-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -1.8      -5.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977      1987      1997      1998      Eportanlmpa4t .ves (USS  miolns)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..      2,262     1,632     3 M -
Crude oil (government share)                  ..               1,004       599
Crude oil (companies' share)                  ..                 935       743     2 -_
Manufactures                          *-                         199       142
Total imports (cf)                               .               2,601     2,553
Food                                                             916       881     l o          -nIL
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..       185       133
Capital goods                                  ..       ..        85        73              _.
S  52  93   9¢   as  r96   7 96
Export price index (1995=100)                    --      *-       114        91
Import price index (1995= 100)                   ..      ..         76        75               I Exports     r Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      ..        149       121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977      1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    .        .      2,522     1,874     20 .
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      3,005     2,915
Resource balance                                 ..      ..      -483    -1.041       10'           -
Net income                                       ..      ..       -636      -467      0-                -      -        --  -
Netcurrenttransfers                             ..       ..      1,254     1.289          92  93   94   95   go   97  -ce-
.10.
Current account balance                         ..       ..        135      -219
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..        162        56
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..      -297        163    _3        -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..      1,227     1,094
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 ..      ..      129.3     135.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997       1998
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          723    4,585       3,856
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0                     G 158
IDA                                          59      473        934      1,075
B 934
Total debt service                              22      269         98               Compcgion or total debt, 1997 1US$ milions)
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                                     6        16        18
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             287      242                                                            c 250
Official creditors                           80       94
Private creditors                            13      174
Foreign direct investment                     0         1         .                                            D: 456
Portfolio equity                              0         0                                  E 1 191
World Bank program
Commitments                                  16       66        149        60
Disbursements                                21       41         89       121      A - IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Princpal repayments                                    2         10        11      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Netflows                                     21       40         79       111                    _
Interest payments                                      4          7         7
Net transfers                                21       35         72       104
Development Economics                                                                                                  9122/99



Page 59
Annex 11: Policy Letter
3/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
MVr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, D. C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
The Republic of Yemen has adopted a strategy for modernizing its civil
service.' This strategy is comprehensive and long term. At the end. the government
decided to have in place a civil service that efficiently and effectivel provides a
reduced scope of government services, that encourages and supports the private and
nougovernment sector, that operates with  transparency, where performance
measurement serves as the key management tool, andwhereameritprincipitis
applied to staff.
This project is envisaged as the first phase of this longer-term reform: designed
to make Yemen's civil service more cost efficient, effective and transparent.. The
objective of this project is to lay the foundation for such a reform by putting in
place core personnel and financial management systems. to establish a mechanism
ruduce the number of unqualified civil servants. and to initiate a restructuring
process in individual ministries. To makle this foundation as solid as possible.
another objective of the project is to upgrade the management capacity in the ci%il
senrice.
A. Recent Achievements
In 1995 Yemen introduced a comprehensive macroeconomic adjustment and
structural reform  program  that signaled a sharp break from past policies. Under
this strategy, which was subsequently supported by both the LIF and the World
Bank. fiscal discipline was established and structural reforms were initiated to
create a market environment conducive to investment and growth in the non-oil
sector. Interest rate liberalization. tariff and tax reform. exchange rate unification.
and price increases in subsidized goods began to shift the economv to a more



Page 60
........   .. . ,,:yo fjA_
market-oriented footing. Official debt relief agreements in 1996 and 1997 with the
Paris Club creditors further substantially improved Yemen's external prospects. By
late 1997. a considerable degree of macroeconomic adjustment had been achieved
and a first wave of fundamental structural reforms were introduced.
In 1998, the sharp drop in world oil prices had an adverse impact across all
sectors of the economy. Yemen lost almost 10 percentage points of GDP in oil
revenue in 1998 compared to 1997. But the government moved quickly to offset the
effect of this loss by significantly curtailing government and development
expenditure and further reducing untargeted subsidies. By taking these corrective
measures, the fiscal deficit in 1998 was contained to 6.1 percent of GDP. At the
same time, real GDP growth slowed to under 2.7 percent in 1998 and the external
accounts shifted back into deficit as government oil exports receipts were halved.
The inflation rate picked up to about 11 percent on average in 1998 spurred also by
the impact of heavy late summer floods on agricultural goods and hence increased
prices. However, despite the difficult external environment, our efforts to maintain
2 sound macroeconomic setting were successful.
In 1999, with the improved outlook for oil prices and a tight expenditure
stance, the fiscal deficits declined to one percent of GD?. The exchange rate has
moved in line with market conditions, with the Central Bank maintaining adequate
levels of foreign reserves. Inflation continued its downward trend, falling to 7.9
percent. Structural improvements along with continued macroeconomic policies
helped to accelerate non-oil GDP growth to 2 percent in 1999.
This year, the fiscal deficit is expected to decline to 2.99 percent of GDP. And
the Inflation to continue its downward trend to 7 percent. The non-oil GDP growth
*, expected to increase to 3.9 percent.
B. The Need for Enhanced Public Sector Performance
While we have achieved good results with our macroeconomic stabilization
program. we recognize that this is just one ofthe necessary ingredients for us to
achieve our development objectives of accelerating private sector led growth and
employment creation, enhancing the quality and quantity of essential public
services, and reducing poverty. It is well understood that to achieve the types of
growth that we are targeting and to better provided public services within our
limited resouzces, the public sector must make more effective use of its limited
financial and human resources. To underscore this point, it is important to
recognize that while *'emen's social indicators have improved in the last few
decades. the challenges ahead remain immense. Life expectancy has risen from only
36.5 lears in 1960 to 57 years today. Infant mortality rates, a good indicator of



Page 61
'......... ''' .s 
................   ....    ............:i1.18 j:~f-
general health conditions, declined from 220 per 1,000 live births in 1960 to 93 per
1,000 live births in the mid-1990s. Literacy rates have improved from 27% to 38%
over the last two decades, and school enrollment rates at the primary level have
increased four-fold. But still, only 80% of boys and 39% of girls are enrolled in
primary school. Yemen's achievements notwithstanding, basic social indicators
remain low, and continued efforts to improve the quality and coverage of essential
services need urgent attention. To do this, we need to make the best possible use of
Yemen's scarce public resources, which is a primary aim of our public sector
modernization program. We also believe that public sector reform is essential to
creating an environment that is truly supportive of increased private sector activity
which is key for employment creation.
C. Current Problems in the Public Administration
Civil service  currently  faces  difficult circumstances.    The  public
administration was severely impacted by aseriesofeventssince1990:theYemen
unification re'ouired the merger of two different systems; the return of some 800,000
Yemenis from the Gulf following the Gulf war, further exacerbating the problem of
over-staffing; and the economic turmoil throughout 1990-95 caused civil service
wages to decline substantially in real terms. The overall result now is a very large,
poorly trained and poorly paid public administration, and the absence of
enforcement of civil service processes and proceedures. At the root of the problem,
public employment has come to serve two purposes: (i) employment for carrying
out specific responsibilities of the public sector; and (ii) "a social safety net" to
guarantee a small salary to a large number of people who are not needed to carry
out the functions of government. As a result, the public administration is bloated
with about 441,000 employees in the civil administration and mixed/public
enterprise sectors in a country of about 17 million people. And with the two
f-netions intertwined. neither is performed well. Few people are held accountable
ior specific work. 'While these problenms can not be solved in one sweep. as a major
objective of our reform. the Government is committed to disentangling the tmo
current roles that public employment plays and to make significant improvements
in each function.
Despite the size of the public administration, the civil service suffers from a
lack of capacity and expertise in skilled areas. Coupled with the weak capacity,
inadequate remuneration and incentives has, led to poor performance,
unsatisfactory delivery of services in terms of quantity, quality and timeliness, and
inefficiencies in the use of public resources, Other deficiencies relate to duplication
of functions and unclear roles and mandates of public sector agencies. There is often
organizational duplication. rules and proceeduial overlaps. and unclear
responsibilities.  And existing rules and regulations are not alw ays enforced nor



Page 62
.. .. ..................... ..... ..   -91-g4e~*                                                 
applied in a uniform. transparent manner. Furthermore, the basic systems through
which the government manages its personnel and financial resources are not
effective, nor effectively implemented
All in all, as an end result, investors complain about bureaucracy; and the
population complain that key services - such as basic healthcare and education -
are inadequate. For these reasons, Yemen modernization of the public sector is now
a high priority.
D. The Lona Term Vision of the Yemeni Civil Service
In response to the widely recognized need for the reform of the public sector, a
national debate was conducted to develop a long-term vision for the public sector.
This resulted in a public sector modernization strategy that was vetted and modified
at a national conference and later endorsed by the Cabinet. This strategy endorse a
vision of the public sector as one that efficiently and effectively provides a reduced
scope of government services, that encourages and supports private and non-
governmental sector, that operates with transparency, where performance
measurement services are the key management tool, and where a merit princple is
applied to staff. This lays out a long-term reform agenda for Yemen The mana
elements of this reform agenda include:
* streamline government entities and eliminate duplication and nonessential services;
increase the transparency of procedures and the consistency with which they are
applied;
- improve budgeting and financial management systems to help ensure efficient,
transparent, non-corrupt use of public funds;
re5tructure the public employment system to establish and maintain professional
standards bv developing a clear personnel management system  that governs hiring,
promotion, salary determination, delineation of duties, responsibility for results, and
performance evaluation;
institute effective controls on staffing levels, and re-deploy or terminate (through a fair
process) redundant workers; and
Improve compensation to motivate civil servants and to retain high quality staff.
We have asked for World Bank support of our efforts with a Civil Serice
Mlodernization Credit that will assist us in implementing certain priority actions.
Furthermore, we are simultaneously moving forward with implementing reforms in
a number of other complementary areas identifred in our strategy, including judicial
reform and privatization.



Page 63
E. PRIORITY REFORMS TO BE SUPPORTED BY THE CREDIT
The Civil Service Modernization Project will support priority areas ofthe
government's long-term program. The priority reform areas were selected because
they: (i) lay the foundations for a sustained reform program in the long-term, (ii)
provide for significant early improvement in some less sensitive areas, and (iii) allow
us to experiment in areas that are more socially and politically sensitive and difficult
but that are critical to long-term success. By working with the World Bank to
design a package of support that focuses on capacity building and training
throughout the implementation process, we hope to also benefit by building the
capability within the public administration to manage our long-term change process
and to technically implement the policy decisions that are being taken.
Recognizing that a well-functioning public administration relies on core
systems to assist in the effective management of its resources, both financial and
human, the government is committed to priority reform of the systems of personnel
and financial management systems, including the payrolL In the area of personnel
management, we have already validated personnel records and established a census
count of civil servants. We are committed to continue this process by issuing
employee identification cards through a system of unique, biometric verification of
each individual employee, linking computerized personnel records to an automatic
payroll system, and redesigning human resource management policies to re-
professionalize the civil service through attention to training needs, accountability
for performance, and hiring and promotion based on merit. We are also committed
to implementing a new accounting and financial management system that will
establish budgeting and accounting systems that are consistent with GFS. Towards
tfit aim. we have already introduced a much more detailed, GFS-consistent budget
classification. and this new classification will be incorporated in the Ministry of
Finance chart of accounts for budget accounting and control starting with the
FY2000 budget. The government also plans to use the new AFNIIS system to help
increase fiscai transparency by posting approved budgets, allocations and monthly,
quarterlv and annual budget execution reports on a Government web-site.
The government is committed to a sequenced path of implementing changes to
these systems. As a first step, we will redesign the system and implement it within
the MOF ministry and three pilots ministries in Sana'a. The second step We will
then pilot the use of the new system at the headquarters of several other ministries
and at the sub-national level in a selected number of administrative units in a
governorate near to Sana'a. After we have established the eOTectiveness and
feasibility of linking the headquarters and sub-national administrative units, we will



Page 64
......   .............   ..-------- ................ -D-z
...................... ....,.......R uJfC
...........   ......     ...I.........:>9 ii;
begin a process of rolling out the new systems throughout all of the administrative
units.
To address the problem of overlap and duplication within and across
government agencies, the government is committed to a process of rethinking what
is the appropriate role of government in each sector. Once a new vision and
mandate for a government agency is defined, then work flow, policies and
procedures, decision making, staffing requirements, organizational structures, and
information systems will all be redesigned to better meet that new mandate.
Unnecessary "red-tape" will be cut; duplication across ministries will be lessened;
and government involvement will be reduced in areas that local councils and the
private sector can better handle. In the first instance, we will undertake this
exercise in a group of pilot ministries. After a Cabinet debate, the Ministries of Civil
Service and Administrative Reform , Social Affairs, Labor, and Health, the Tax Authority,
and the Prime Minister's office, Civil Aviation Authority, and COCA were chosen for
restructuring as a first group.
Another key issue that the government is .committed to addressing is the size
and composition of the government's staff.. The cucrent civil service is large in
number, concentrated in only a few locations, and lacking in critical skills. These
imbalances will be addressed in the reform program, as it is essential before we can
begin to deliver quality services throughout the entire country, and to raise wages -
in a manner that the country can afford - in order to motivate and attract a highly
qualified, professional, civil service. This is critical because even at the low salary
levels, wage and salary payments to civil staff absorb about 35.4% of the budget. If
nothing is done, resources will not be available to increase salaries of productive
civil servants. And without adjustments the salary scale, it will be difficult for the
government to retain high quality staff.
Consequently. as an essential complement to reforms described above. the
Government intends to address its surplus labor problem. This will be done
through a variety of measures that relate to the faithful application of the conditions
for end of service as set forth in Article 119 of the Civil Service Law 18/1991
(including retirement), and removing from the payroll ghost workers and persons
collecting multiple salaries.
Furthermore, the government is  committed to identify surplus workers
through its restructuring process. These surplus workers, on an agency by agency
basis, will be moved to the Civil Service Fund that has already been legally
established. The Government undertakes to continue to pay, in a timely manner
and out of the Government's own resources, the wages of surplus civil servants.
identified as such in accordance with a process agreed upon with the Association, by
transferring the bill covering the wages of such civil servants from the respective



Page 65
- ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ' 2or :ilw, .                 *
. ....... .. ..........  ....   _t,a                                                  '-               55
line ministry or agency to the Civil Service Fund. Furthermore, the
Government undertakes to provide, promptly as necded all the funds, racilities and
services required to enable the Civil Service Fund, at all times, to make prompt
paymenit under buy-out packages offered to the redundant civil servants to
encourage their exit from the Civil Service Fund. Furthermore, any sueb by-out
packages will take into account targeting (so that the most skilled employees are not
lost), the level anid nature of compensation, implementation regulations governing
the payment of such compensation, and monitoring, evaluation and adjustment
mechanisms.  Any training or other services provided to displaced workers will be
subject to a market mechanismn that requires worker contribution in order to better
allow the affected worker to determine i training or a service is desired, the type of
training or service. and the provider (public, private, or NlGO.
F.   Ex.oected Results and Target
As a result of the civil service modernizationi program, by the end ofthe
project or sooner, the governmenit expects to have acihieved the following specific
results:
*  Rfemoval 12000 thousands of overdu¢ pensioners within 9 months Dec.2000.
.  Removal from  the payroll of all double dippers and ghost workers within 4
month of their identification through the bionmetrics system.
*  Transfer to the civil service fund of workers Who are identified, through the
restructuring process.
*  Significant overall reduictioni in the number of civil servants over the project
p)eriodL,
*  *\(iflpjiUfl  of a wage and emploJllelt polity  by .june 2001. thMt is hscally
:1 ft riP:1,Ieand t11at perinits the grra:dial decolnipressiot oif maues.
I rvsttirucwtIriin  of 4 :aaeicirs lhy D)cc.2OOI arIld 4 :W-elikies b! svp.2(it I   illcludingt
tie  Clear deliiit iml of its uii;ite, lo  C;atr  t 1  ii 'a  pro1raminet. tkhe
imlriodtict ion  of  joob descriptiolls anld MoSitiOTs. tile idelititicatiil1 of humtilan
*        rcllce  T(ILliretlemet . :a11nd thtI n-a isfer of S1 plul)ls st:0l3T to  1w (*il- it S'Cl iCe
lun I  )ti  I)e 1)t)t)  :id Seb.201D I. :iiid ; time lt iI pNl:ir to role out thiiS }|ess
11 8InJiunolt thl rveainder of governinden 1wv Dec.2(013l.
.   1wrodultiont 10   o)f  re'viseld. conipl)Iitriized personnel numa gemnent, p:ay'roll. and
AFM IS ssstcIs withinlll  S:3inaa'.. 1il1(l ifJll)JCllplJlt:tiOll oll track 10o CNald111 th1ese
rev isedl s stemis ti nrotuighnlit all admiliistral hi e units.
D)esiall :almd c;lt rlV out traillill-    inslob  personnelwho  il illetli
the rectnritc tre(d dtIpal tllellts.



Page 66
~~......  .  .... .... . .O .J .....    .......
................. . .jlS ..............
G. Proiect ImDlementation Issues
The Government is committed to placing the implementation responsibility for
the Civil Service Modernization Project squarely on the public administration. The
technical assistance provided through the credit will be used to build up the capacity
with in the public administration to carry out both the functions of government as
well as further reforms. To manage the process, the Government is committed to the
implementation of the project by civil servants, with appropriate technical
assistance, and supported by a small technical secretariat that will provide overall
project management support.
As an incentive for civil servants substantively involved in the implementation
of one or more key components of the Project, the Government undertakes to
faithfully apply the provisions of Article 21 of the Yemeni Civil Service Law No.
19/1991 governing the granting of incentive bonuses to civil servants. These
incentives will be paid from the government budget, outside of the usual
counterpart contributions for the Project. The Government views this arrangement
as an interim measure (until a new salary structures can be introduced) so that staff
charged with implementing important change responsibilities will be awarded a
bonus allowance based on the successful completion of specifically defined tasks.
The number of persons involved in managing and implementing the program, and
hence receiving the special allowance, will vary depending on the specific activities
that are on-going at a given time.
SINCERELY YOUTRS,
DR. ABDULKARIM AL-IR.
TH£ FRI           R



