Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4391 YEM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Civil Service Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 16, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4391 YEM 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 16, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the United States dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 175 
Sana’a 
Republic of Yemen 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  4
3
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Abdulla Al-Hajjri 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in creating capacity, and 
putting in place institutions and systems, for sustained and improved utilization of human 
and financial resources. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Improvement of Core Systems
Provision of technical assistance, including goods and consultants’ services, to 
the Recipient to: (i) design and put in place an information management framework to 
ensure compatibility and consistency among the various civil service functions to be 
computerized under the Program; (ii) revise existing employment policies and practices 
with a view to converting the existing civil service system into a merit-based system; (iii) 
put in place an employee database to provide a human resources management 
information system to maintain the integrity of personnel records in the Ministry of Civil 
Service and regional information centers; (iv) streamline and standardize payroll 
preparation procedures to enable the Recipient to accurately measure the cost savings 
realized as a result of the staff reductions and redeployment contemplated under the 
Program; and (v) develop an accounting and financial management information system 
for all the central ministries in Sanaa. 
 
Part B
:
Streamlining and Rationalization
1. 
Carrying out a pilot program to streamline and rationalize the organizational 
structure of ministries and agencies of the Recipient selected pursuant to the criteria 
referred to under Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, including goods and consultants’ services, to: 
(a) carry out comprehensive reviews and assessments of the Innovation Fund’s operations 
with a view to improving its effectiveness in promoting and encouraging innovation 
within the public sector; and (b) evaluate and finance specific proposals submitted to the 
Innovation Fund for implementation. 
 
3. 
Provision of funds in support of the Innovation Fund operations. 
 
Part C
:
Civil Service Fund
Conducting comprehensive reviews and assessments of the operations of the 
Civil Service Fund, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services. 
Page  6
5
Part D
:
Project Management Support
Support to TS, and to ministries and agencies selected under Part C of the 
Project, through the provision of expert services, goods, training and the carrying out of 
performance audits, to strengthen their capabilities to implement the Project and the 
Program. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient, through MoCSI, shall: (a) be responsible for the overall 
implementation of the Project; (b) maintain TS with professional staff in 
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall 
be acceptable to the Association which will be responsible, for: (i) assistance in 
the development and review of work plans to ensure consistency within the 
overall objectives of the Program; (ii) monitoring Project performance and 
implementation progress in accordance with the targets and indicators set forth in 
the Project Implementation Plan; and (iii) preparation, for submission to the 
Association, of annual work programs and updated procurement plans; and (c) 
maintain PIU during the execution of the Project which is responsible for: (i) the 
day-to-day management and coordination of Project implementation; (ii) 
responsibility for the procurement and disbursement processes under the Project; 
and (iii) preparation, for submission to the Association, of the reports referred to 
under Section II of this Schedule. 
2. 
Key staff of TS shall include: (a) a Project general manager responsible for the 
implementation of the Project; (b) a re-engineering coordinator responsible for 
the implementation of Part B of the Project; (c) a Civil Service Fund manager 
responsible for the implementation of Part C of the Project; (d) a civil service 
renewal coordinator; (e) an accounting and financial management information 
system Project coordinator; (f) Innovation Fund Program coordinator; (g) a 
monitoring and evaluation officer; (h) a Project financial manager;  (i) two 
procurement specialists; and (j) Project officer responsible for the administration 
of the Project. 
3. 
In order to achieve the objectives of Part B.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall 
select ministries and agencies on the basis of the following criteria: (i) the 
ministry or agency’s size, to be technically suitable in terms of number of 
employees; (ii) the extent of the ministry or agency’s interface with the general 
public or the private sector; and (iii) the ministry or agency’s willingness, 
commitment and motivation to streamline and rationalize its organizational 
structure. 
4. 
In order to achieve the objectives of Part D of the Project, the Recipient shall 
cause to be carried out, not later than December 31 of each year, commencing 
December 31, 2008, until completion of the Project, an independent audit of the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Project, such audit to assess the extent to 
Page  8
7
which the Project is likely to achieve its objectives, the integrity of the processes 
used to attain said objectives, the consistency of the methodology used to carry 
out the Project and the effectiveness of the services of consultants employed 
under the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall carry out a social assessment prior to December 31, 2008, 
based on terms of references acceptable to the Association.  The Recipient shall 
thereafter ensure that the procedures of the Civil Service Fund shall be amended 
prior to March 31, 2009, to reflect the findings of such assessment in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Page  9
8
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient
.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
Page  10
9
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
this paragraph shall be those set forth in Law No. 23 for 2007 concerning 
Government Tenders, Auctions and Stores, and its Regulations, subject to the 
following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
a Recipient-owned enterprise in the Republic of Yemen shall be eligible 
to bid only if it can establish that it is legally and financially autonomous, 
operates under commercial law, and is not a dependent agency of the 
Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
bidding (or pre-qualification, if required) shall not be restricted to any 
particular class of contractors or suppliers, and non-registered contractors 
and suppliers shall also be eligible to participate; 
 
(iii) 
tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in two 
(2) local newspapers of wide circulation; 
 
(iv) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days for 
the preparation and submission of bids, such thirty (30) days to begin 
with the availability of the bidding documents or the advertisement, 
whichever is later; 
 
(v) 
until national standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association 
are available, bidding documents approved by the Association shall be 
used, and may be prepared in Arabic; 
 
(vi) 
registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications; 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried out) and 
the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be stated 
in the bidding documents, and before contract award the bidder having 
submitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid shall be subject to post-
qualification; 
 
(vii) 
a foreign bidder shall not be required to register or to appoint an agent as 
a
condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity to 
register, without let or hindrance; the registration process shall not be 
applicable to sub-contractors; 
 
(viii) 
all bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and may be submitted, at 
the bidder’s option, in person or by courier service; 
 
(ix) 
all bids shall be opened at the same time in a public bid opening which 
bidders shall be allowed to attend and which shall follow immediately 
after the deadline for submission of bids; 
Page  11
10
 
(x) 
evaluation of bids shall be carried out in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated responsive bidder, without resorting to the rejection of 
bids above or below a certain percentage of the pre-bid estimate (bid 
price bracketing); 
 
(xi) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify its bid after the bid 
closing date shall have elapsed and bids submitted after the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be returned to the bidder unopened; 
 
(xii) 
post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other bidder shall not be 
permitted; 
 
(xiii) 
under exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the 
expiration of bid validity, request all bidders in writing to extend the 
validity of their bids, in which case bidders shall not be requested nor 
permitted to amend the price or any other condition of their bids; a 
bidder shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension without 
forfeiting its bid security, but any bidder granting such extension shall be 
required to provide a corresponding extension of its bid security; 
 
(xiv) 
price adjustment provisions may be included in contracts for works with 
a
duration of more than eighteen months; 
 
(xv) 
rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective 
competition, or bids are not substantially responsive, however, lack of 
competition shall not be determined solely on the basis of the number of 
bidders; and 
 
(xvi) 
each contract financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall provide that 
the contractor or supplier shall permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have such accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Association. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Pro
curement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2
.
Other Methods
 of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
Page  12
11
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(b)  Single-Source Selection 
 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods 
2,500,000
100% 
 
(2)  Capacity building 
 
and training  
 
1,790,000
80% 
Page  13
12
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
4,080,000
80% 
(4)  Innovation Fund 
  450,000
100% 
(5)  Unallocated 
    80,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
8,900,000
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “capacity building and training” means expenditures incurred by TS on 
account of Project related capacity building activities, training, conferences, 
seminars, workshops, including international travel and per diem costs of trainees 
and trainers. 
(b) 
the term “Innovation Fund” means the fund referred to under Part B.2 of the Project 
whose purpose is to provide an alternative track for ad hoc initiatives under Part B.1 
of the Project that shall not have been initially contemplated to take place under the 
Program and shall be deemed to have a clear benefit to the population at large. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010.
 
Page  14
13
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each April 1_ and October 1: 
 
commencing October 1, 2018 to and including 
April  1, 2028 
 
1% 
 
commencing October  1, 2028 to and including 
April  1, 2048 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General Conditions.
 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Civil Service Fund” means the fund referred to under Part C of the Project, 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Presidential Decree No. 1 of 1999 and 
Law No.1 of 2004, and funded out of the Recipient’s own resources, whose 
purpose is to finance, for a limited period of time, the wage bill of surplus staff, 
identified as such under Part C of the Project, prior to providing buy-out 
packages to said staff in accordance with guidelines to be developed by the 
Recipient and to be acceptable to the Association. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“MoCSI” means the Ministry of Civil Service and Insurance of the Recipient and 
any successor or successors thereto. 
7. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Civil Service Modernization Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated May 12, 2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
 
(Credit No. 3335-YEM). 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 4, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Page  16
15
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
11. 
“Program” means the program designed to set out the measures required to carry 
out the Recipient’s civil service modernization program and set forth or referred 
to in the letter dated March 1, 2000, from the Recipient to the Association. 
12. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, agreed between the 
Recipient and the Association, for the implementation of the Project which sets 
out the targets and indicators to be used in evaluating progress toward the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
13. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within the Ministry of Civil 
Service and Insurance of the Recipient which will be responsible for day to day 
implementation of the Project, including financial management, procurement, 
disbursement and management.  
14. 
“SCCSAR” means the Supreme Council for Civil Service and Administrative 
Reform, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Presidential Decree No. 250 of 
1997, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
15. 
“TS” means the Technical Secretariat created, structured and operating pursuant 
to the TS Decree (as this term is hereinafter defined). 
16. 
“TS Decree” means Decree No. 74 of 1997, as the same may be amended to the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
