Report No. PID6480
Project Name                     Yemen-Civil Service Modernization Credit
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Public Sector  Management
Project ID                       YEPA50706
Borrower                         Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agency              Technical Unit
in the Ministry of Civil
Service and Administrative
Reform;
Contact                          Eng. Nabil Shamsan
Technical Unit
Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative
Reform Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Telephone: (967-1) 276-715
Fax: (967-1) 276-715
Initial PID prepared             May 1998
Project appraisal date           September 15, 1998
Project Board date               November 1998
Country and Sectoral Background
1.      Over the past several years, Yemen has taken significant steps to
stabilize its economy and has embarked on important structural reforms
designed to generate growth and employment opportunities. It is now widely
recognized within Yemen that in order to sustain and strengthen recent
achievements, it is critical to focus on reform of the public administration
system. Performance of the current public administration system is seriously
deficient. This is caused by inadequacies in nearly all core systems (e.g.
personnel management, programming, planning and budgeting, the general ledger
system, procurement and material management, and property management),
organizational structures, work processes, and enforcement mechanisms.
2.      To address some of the main causes of poor public sector performance,
Yemen is formulating a civil service modernization program that seeks to:
- streamline government and eliminate duplication and non-essential services
- thereby increasing the quantity, quality, and cost-effectiveness of
essential public services;
- increase the transparency of procedures and the consistency with which they
are applied;
- improve budgeting and financial management systems to help ensure
efficient, transparent, non-corrupt use of public funds;
- restructure the public employment system to establish and maintain
professional standards by developing a clear personnel management system that
governs hiring, promotion, salary determination, delineation of duties,
responsibility for results, and performance evaluation;
- institute effective controls on staffing levels, and redeploy or terminate
(through a fair process) redundant workers; and



- improve compensation to motivate civil servants and to retain high quality
staff.
The Proposed Project
3.      The objectives of the government's civil service modernization program is
to reduce efficiency and ineffectiveness in government, particularly that
caused by: (i) poor organizational structures leading to duplication and red-
tape; (ii) lack of appropriate personnel policies resulting in low staff
productivity; and (iii) ineffective core systems of public administration.
4.       To begin reaching this objective, the proposed project will provide
support in three critical areas: improving core systems; re-engineering
ministries and agencies; and addressing staffing issues that impede the
ability of government to retain and adequately compensate high quality staff.
Project components will include support in each of these three areas as well
as in reform management.
5.      Improve Core Systems:   A well-functioning public administration relies on
core systems to assist in the effective management of its resources, both
financial and human. These systems are numerous and varied. The strategic
choice of this project is to focus first on enhancements to the personnel and
financial management systems. In the area of personnel management, first
priority will be given to establishing a count of civil service staff through
a census, issuing personnel and job identification numbers, verifying
personnel records, and linking computerized personnel files to an automatic
payroll system. In the area of financial management, priority will go to
enhancing the budget management process, expenditure control, and accounting
framework.
6.      Re-engineer Government Agencies:   In addition to strengthened personnel
and financial management systems (controls), there must be an incentive
framework for public agencies to effectively deliver needed services. The re-
engineering process (resulting in fundamental changes to work flow, policies
and procedures, decision-making, staffing requirements, organizational
structure and culture, and information systems of ministries and agencies)
will help develop this incentive framework. Under the project, the re-
engineering process will be phased. Efforts will start with a pilot ministry
and gradually expand to other agencies.
7.      Laborforce Adjustment:    Action is this area is critical as the current
civil service is both bloated and lacking crucial skills. If nothing is done,
resources will not be available to increase salaries of productive civil
servants. And without adjustments to the salary scale, it will be difficult
for the government to retain high quality staff. Consequently, as a critical
complement to reforms supported in the first two components, the project will
also support efforts to remove 'irregular' employees from the payroll and to
seek a solution to the surplus labor problem. This component is fundamental
to the sustainability of reforms initiated in the two components described
above.
8.      Reform Management:   Given the importance of sustained political
commitment as well as the long-term nature of the reform program, the proposed
project would also provide support for managing the overall reform program.
In addition to specific support for the project management team, this
- 2-



component will also include a public information program. This program will
focus on explaining the reform program and the step-by-step approach with
which it is being implemented, solidifying public support for and
participation in the reform agenda, and sustaining high-level political
commitment.
Cost and Financing
9.      Project costs are provisionally estimated to total about $60 million
equivalent, including about $25 million for core systems; $15 million for re-
engineering; $15 million for labor force adjustment , and $5 million for
reform management. These cost estimates will be refined during appraisal
currently scheduled for about September 1998. The proposed IDA credit would
finance most of these costs which would comprise mainly technical assistance
and computerization.
Risks and Benefits
10.     This will be a high risk operation, with risks centered on sustaining
high level political willingness to implement fundamental reforms, developing
and maintaining a coalition of support for the reforms, and developing
sufficient  implementation capacity.    However, the potential benefits are
also large. A successful operation will assist the government improve the
management of its economy. It will support private sector development by
starting to reduce cumbersome bureaucracy, increase the level of transparency,
and transfer out of the public sector structures and functions that can be
better provided elsewhere. The project will contribute to the modernization
of human resource and financial management practices. Those interfacing with
re-engineered agencies (the public, and/or other government agencies) should
receive better service. By enhancing public sector management, the project
should help improve the allocation and use of public resources. Further
benefits are expected for qualified civil servants who will be rewarded for
good performance with higher salaries. Potential fiscal benefits will be
assessed.
Implementation
11.      The Borrower would be the Republic of Yemen.    The project would be
implemented by the Technical Unit of the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform, in conjunction with other concerned ministries and
agencies.
Poverty Category
12.      Not applicable.
Environmental Category
13.      This project is classified under category C (no significant
environmental impact).
Program Objective Categories
14.     The project would support the economic management program objective.
- 3 -



Contact Point:                    Ms. Linda Van Gelder, TM
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 4 -



