Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3335-YEM
Development Credit Agreement 
(Civil Service Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3335-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated March 1, 2000, from the 
Borrower describing the Borrower’s civil service modernization program (the Program), 
setting out certain measures required to carry out the Program and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Civil Service Fund” means the fund referred to under Part D of the 
Project, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 1 of 1999, and 
funded out of the Borrower’s own resources, whose purpose is to finance, for a limited 
period of time, the wage bill of surplus staff, identified as such under Part C.1 of 
the Project, prior to providing buy-out packages to said staff in accordance with 
guidelines to be developed by the Borrower and to be acceptable to the Association;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Special Account for Part B 
of the Project, Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a), and (4) (a) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and, in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project, Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) 
(b) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of the Special Account for Part 
B of the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 
(a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and in 
respect of the Special Account for Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project, the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories;
(d)
“Innovation Fund” means the fund referred to under Part C.2 (a) of the 
Project whose purpose is to provide an alternative track for ad hoc initiatives under 
Part C.1 of the Project that shall not have been initially contemplated to take place 
under the Program and shall be deemed to have a clear benefit to the population at 
large;
(e)
“Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, agreed between 
the Borrower and the Association, for the implementation of the Project which sets out 
the targets and indicators to be used in evaluating progress toward the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on February 12, 1998, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
February 25, 1998;
(h)
“SCCSAR” means the Supreme Council for Civil Service and Administrative 
Reform, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 250 of 1997, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)
“Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
Page  3
to this Agreement;
(j)
“TS” means the Technical Secretariat created, structured and operating 
pursuant to the TS Decree (as this term is hereinafter defined); and
(k)
“TS Decree” means Decree No. 74 of 1997, as the same may be amended from 
time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR22,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days (60) 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2010, and ending April 15, 2040.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2020, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and civil service standards and practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statement and report of 
such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
Ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which shall:
(i)
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
Page  6
report, and (B) show separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describe progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explain variances 
between actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)
that the Borrower, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Civil Service Fund or for 
the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (b) shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the financial management system referred to under Section 
4.01 (a) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
2266CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
under Part B
   2,900,000
100% of local
of the Project
expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and
(b)
under other Parts
   3,500,000
80% of local expen-
of the Project
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants' services
(a)
under Part B of
   2,600,000
100% of foreign
Page  8
the Project
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(b)
under other Parts
   6,600,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(3)
Training, including
study tours and
workshops
(a)
under Part B of
     285,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
(b)
under other Parts
   2,900,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(4)
Incremental
Operating
Expenditures
(a)
under Part B
    170,000
80%
of the Project
(b)
under other Parts
of the Project
   1,000,000
80%
(5)
Refunding of Project
   1,500,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     945,000
TOTAL
  22,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and \0c
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" means expenditures incurred by TS 
on account of utility charges, rent for office space, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, 
office supplies, banking charges, communication services, audit costs, travel costs, 
labor costs and other consumables but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) 
unless suitable bidding documents, acceptable in substance to the Association, 
concerning the installation and customization of the system referred to under Part B 
of the Project, have been prepared and issued.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts for consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services under contracts for 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) training; and (e) 
Incremental Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts 
Page  9
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of each of Part B of the Project, and Parts 
A, C, D, E and F of the Project, open and maintain in dollars two (2) separate special 
deposit accounts in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  10
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; and (ii) in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Credit pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Credit 
from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible 
Page  11
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000 in respect of 
the Special Account for Part B of the Project and $3,000,000 in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in creating capacity, 
and putting in place institutions and systems, for sustained and improved utilization 
of human and financial resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Core Systems
Provision of technical assistance, including goods and consultants’ services, to 
the Borrower to: (i) design and put in place an information management framework to 
ensure compatibility and consistency among the various civil service functions to be 
computerized under the Program; (ii) revise existing employment policies and practices 
with a view to converting the existing civil service system into a merit-based system; 
(iii) compile and verify personnel records, conduct an employee census, and develop 
and put in place an employee database, together with a suitable system to update said 
database, for purposes of eliminating person duplicates and aliases; and (iv) 
streamline and standardize payroll preparation procedures to enable the Borrower to 
accurately measure the cost savings realized as a result of the staff reductions and 
redeployment contemplated under the Program.
Part B:
Accounting and Financial Management Information System
Provision of technical assistance, including goods, training and consultants’ 
services, to the Borrower to design and put in place a suitable accounting and 
financial management information system to upgrade the payment and accounting systems, 
and improve financial management.
Part C:
Streamlining and Rationalization
1.
Carrying out a pilot program to streamline and rationalize the organizational 
structure of ministries and agencies of the Borrower selected pursuant to the criteria 
referred to under paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, including goods and consultants’ services, to 
(a) design and establish a fund and develop suitable policies, oversight mechanisms 
and operating guidelines and procedures therefor; (b) carry out periodic reviews and 
assessments of the Innovation Fund’s operations with a view to improving its 
effectiveness in promoting and encouraging innovation within the public sector; and 
(c) evaluate and finance specific proposals submitted to the Innovation Fund for 
implementation.
Part D:
Civil Service Fund
Provision of technical assistance, including goods and consultants’ services, to 
Page  12
the Borrower to design and establish a fund, develop suitable policies, oversight 
mechanisms and operating guidelines and procedures therefor, and carry out periodic 
reviews and assessments of the operations thereof, all with a view to enabling the 
Borrower to achieve the objectives of Part C.1 of the Project.
Part E:
Training and Capacity Building
Development and carrying out of a suitable training program for mid- and senior- 
level managers in the public sector in the area of public sector management, together 
with training in the areas of project management, change management and skills needed 
to implement the core systems referred to under Part A of the Project.
Part F:
Project Management Support
Support to TS, and to ministries and agencies selected under Part C.1 of the 
Project, through the provision of expert services, goods, training and the carrying 
out of performance audits, to strengthen their capabilities to implement the Project 
and the Program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997 
and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  13
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  14
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
For purposes of ensuring proper coordination and execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain TS with professional staff in adequate numbers whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Association. TS shall operate under such principles and guidelines as may be 
established by SCCSAR from time to time. The functions of TS shall include, inter 
alia: (i) the day-to-day management and coordination of Project implementation; (ii) 
assistance in the development and review of work plans to ensure consistency within 
the overall objectives of the Program; (iii) responsibility for the procurement and 
disbursement processes under the Project; (iv) monitoring Project performance and 
implementation progress in accordance with the targets and indicators set forth in the 
Project Implementation Plan; (v) preparation, for submission to the Association, of 
annual work programs and updated procurement plans; and (vi) preparation, for 
submission to the Association, of the reports
 referred to under paragraph D (b) (i) of this Schedule.
2.
Key staff of TS shall include: (a) a Project Coordinator responsible for the 
implementation of the Project, except for Part B thereof; (b) a coordinator 
responsible for the implementation of Part B of the Project; (c) a re-engineering 
coordinator responsible for the implementation of Part C of the Project; (d) a Civil 
Service Fund manager responsible for the implementation of Part D of the Project; and 
(e) a training coordinator responsible for the implementation of Part E of the 
Project.
B.
Selection Criteria Under Part C.1 of the Project
In order to achieve the objectives of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall select ministries and agencies on the basis of the following criteria: (i) the 
Page  15
ministry or agency’s size, to be technically suitable in terms of number of employees; 
(ii) the extent of the ministry or agency’s interface with the general public or the 
private sector; and (iii) the ministry or agency’s willingness, commitment and 
motivation to streamline and rationalize its organizational structure.
C.
Performance Audits Under Part F of the Project
In order to achieve the objectives of Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause to be carried out, not later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 
31, 2001, until completion of the Project, an independent audit of the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the Project, such audit to assess the extent to which the Project is 
likely to achieve its objectives, the integrity of the processes used to attain said 
objectives, the consistency of the methodology used to carry out the Project and the 
effectiveness of the services of consultants employed under the Project.
D.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing December 31, 2000, a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about December 31, 2002, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and consolidating the results of the reports 
referred to under sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
