                                      Document of
                                    The WorldBank


                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                           ReportNo. 42201-YE




                                  PROJECT PAPER

                                          ONA

               PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                    INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR8.9 MILLION

                        (US$14.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLICOFYEMEN

                                         FORA

                CIVIL SERVICEMODERNIZATIONPROJECT

                                     March07,2008




Social andEconomicDevelopmentGroup
MiddleEastandNorthAfrica Region

This document hasa restricteddistributionandmaybeusedby recipients only inthe
performanceof their officialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebedisclosedwithout
WorldBankauthorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective: January 31,2008
                    Current Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
                            US$1 = YRO.629

                             FISCALYEAR
                         January 1- December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFMIS        Accounting and FinancialManagement Information System
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CSM          Civil Service Modernization
CSMP         Civil Service Modernization Project
CSF          Civil Service Fund
DA           Designated Account
EDB          Employee Database
FMR          Financial Monitoring Report
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOY          Government o f Yemen
GPN          General Procurement Notice
ICB          International CompetitiveBidding
IDA          InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IF           InnovationFund
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MENA         Middle East and NorthAfrica
MIS          Management Information System
MOCSAI       MinistryofCivil Service and Insurance
MOF          MinistryofFinance
MOPIC        MinistryofPlanningandInternational Cooperation
NIA or N.A.  Not Applicable
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
PIU          Project ImplementationUnit
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PIP          Project ImplementationPlan
QCBS         Quality-Cost-Based-Selection
SA           Special Account
SBD          Standard BiddingDocument
SDR          Special DrawingRights
SOE          Statement o f Expenditure
TA           Technical Assistance
TS           Technical Secretariat
YR           Yemeni Rial

                      Vice President       Daniela Gressani
                   Country Director        EmmanuelMbi
                      Sector Director      RitvaReinikka
                      Sector Manager       Miria Pigato
                  Task Team Leader         Giulio de Tommaso

                                                                                           FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                            CIVIL SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                                          ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                          CONTENTS


           I Introduction
           I1      BackgroundandRationale for Additional Financing.........................................                                    2
           I11
            ...                 ......................................................................................................... 1

                   Proposed Changes       ...............................................................................................      6
           Iv.     Consistency with CAS          ........................................................................................      7
           V .     Appraisal o f Scaled-up Project Activities                    ...........................................................   7
           VI.     ExpectedOutcomes ..........................................................................................                13
           VI1.    Benefits and Risks     .............................................................................................       13
           VI11 FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing ........................
                .                                                                                                                             15
           Annex 1:Detailed Project Description.........................................................................                      16
           Annex 2: Reengineering Project Management Framework                                   ..........................................   26
           Annex 3: LogicalFramework Approach (LFA)                            ...........................................................    30
           Annex 4: Detailed Cost Estimate            ..................................................................................      33
           Annex 5: Financial Management Plan and Projection o fDisbursements                                           ..................... 39
           Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements andPlan............................................................                              45
           Annex 7: ImplementationPlan            .....................................................................................       54
           Annex 8: Project Implementation Unit Organizational Chart ......................................                                   56
           Annex 9: Risk Identification Worksheet                .......................................................................      57
           Annex 10: Description o fProgramAchievements and Proposed Activities Under the
           Additional Financing....................................................................................................           61
           Annex 11: Country at a Glance          .....................................................................................       71
           MAPIBRD#33513         ......................................................................................................       73




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                              Project Paper Data Sheet




FY                  2008    I      2009       I  2010         2011



Current closing date: 06/30/2010




Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes [Ifapplicable]

There is no change inthe Project Development Objectives.




                     Source                       Local      Foreign   Total
Borrower                                        2.68          0.65     3.33
IDA                                             2.10         11.90     14.00
Others                                          0.00          0.00     0.00
Total                                           4.78         12.55     17.33


I. INTRODUCTION

1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in an amount o f SDR8.9 million US$14 million equivalent to the
Government o f Yemen for the Civil Service Modernization Project (CSMP), IDA 3335-
YEM. The proposed additional financing would help finance the costs associated with
scaling up the activities to enhance the impact o f an important project for Yemen's
overall development.      Specifically, investments will: (i)provide support for the
continuation o f the reengineering process in selected line departments; (ii) with the
                                                                            assist
expansion o f the Human Resource Database beyond the civil service to include
employees in the armed forces, judiciary and the security services, the establishment of a
comprehensive HumanResource Management System and the roll out o f the Accounting
and Financial Management System to all ministries and agencies in Sana'a; and (iii)
support the revision o f all current relevant legislation to strengthen the rule o f law,
meritocracy andperformance orientation inpublic employment.

2.    For nearly a decade after the 1990, Yemen has achieved a reasonable annual GDP
growth rate (around 5.2 percent), securing a 2 percent per capita growth. The integration
o f North and South Yemen provided a bigger market; new oil wells came on stream in
1994, boosting oil production by 80 percent; and a successhl macroeconomic
stabilization and reform program in the second half o f the 1990s controlled inflation,
liberalized trade, reduced subsides, unified the exchange rate regime and reformed the
financial sector. Economic growth peaked inthe period 1995 to 1998. Since 1999, GDP
growth has slipped and the production o f oil - the main source o f export and govemment
revenue - plateaued since 2001. With an annual GNI per capita o f US$760 in 2006 and
with 35 percent o f its population o f about 21 million living in poverty, Yemeni people
remain, on an average, among the poorest inthe region. Yemen has some o f the lowest
social indicators in the Middle East and North Africa region: a 28 percent literacy rate
among women, 18 percent malnutrition, girls' primary enrollment at 55 percent, and
access to safe water at 31 percent. Poverty i s higher (40 percent o f population poor) in
rural areas, where 70 percent o f the population resides. The dispersion of the population
and the difficult topography pose a serious challenge to delivering social services.
Yemen is an oil-dependent economy with oil revenues projected to decline unless new
reserves are found andwith no good short to medium-termalternative income generating
sources to finance the delivery o f essential social services.

3.     Yemen's public administration was in a precarious state following the unification
o f North and South Yemen and a destructive Civil War in the early 1990s. During the
early part o f the 199Os, Yemen's Civil Service acted as an employer o f last resort and a
central component o f Yemen's safety net. This situation created a large civil service
which interfered in private sector activities and impeded its development, represented a
large burden on public finances while producing little value added interms o f delivering
needed services to the population at large.

4.     Meanwhile individual wages o f public servants eroded significantly and public
sector salaries remain largely inadequate. In2006, senior managers earned only 2.5 times
the lowest level civil servant (international benchmarks place vertical compression at
about six to seven). These low wages made the civil service unable to attract highquality


                                               1

workers, with lack o f effort on the part o f existing staff with many persons holding more
thanonejob (either withinthe public or private sector), andincreasedthe reliance ofcivil
servants on petty corruption to top-off salaries. It has also reinforced the concept that
wages paid to a civil servant are nothing more than a safety-net.

5.     As a result o f merging the administration o f North and South Yemen, the
organizational structure became antiquated and excessively complex and centralized with
little ability by lower level management to take decisions or be held accountable for
activities even as mundane as approval o f annual leave for individual staff.
Organizational structures and work flows were duplicative and unnecessarily complex,
and modem humanresource-management practices were virtually absent. The result was
a bloated civil service with extremely low pay scales, weak capacity, opaque hiring and
promotionpractices, andrelatively few effective enforcement mechanisms.

6.     A decade ago, the government embarked on a comprehensive program to reverse
this situation with encouraging results.      Given the dire situation o f Yemen's public
administration, and consistent with worldwide experience in this area, it was clear at
program inception that reforms to address these deficiencies would require an
incremental, phased approach, initially focusing on buildinga solid institutional basis for
the management o f public resources and subsequently building on these achievements to
create a modem andperformance-oriented civil service.

7.     Starting in 1997, with assistance from the World Bank, the Government o f Yemen
devised the Civil Service Modernization program, which was envisaged as the foundation
and first buildingblock o fthis longer-termreform strategy. The specific objectives o fthis
operation were to create the capacity, institutions andsystems for effective deployment o f
human and financial resources of the Government of Yemen and increase the overall
efficiency o f the civil service. Towards this end, the project aimed to put in place core
personnel and financial management systems, establish a mechanism to reduce the
number of unqualified civil servants, and initiate a restructuring process in selected
individual ministries.To make this foundation as solid as possible, the project also sought
to enhance management capacity inthe civil service.

     11.     BACKGROUND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING
                             AND

8.     The original loan was approved on March 23, 2000 for SDR22.4million or
US$35 million equivalent with a closing date o f December 31, 2005. It was restructured
in December 2005 and the closing date was extended by two years to December 31,
2007. The loan was extended an additional thirty months in December 2007 in
anticipation o fthe approval o fthe present request for additional financing.

9.     The loan was designed to provide support to the civil service modernization
process which began in the aftermath o f Yemen's unification following the end o f the
civil war. The Government's comprehensive strategy for modernizing its civil service
focused on developing a workforce that efficiently and effectively provides a reduced
complement o f government services while supporting growth in the private and non-
government sectors. The aims o f the reforms are to improve the operational transparency
o f the civil service, by fostering an environment where performance measurement serves



                                               2

as the key management tool and where the merit principle i s used as the basis for hiring
andpromoting staff.

Achievements of the OriginalProject

10.    The project struggled in the initial three years as a result o f strong bureaucratic
resistance and lack o f institutional capacity to carry out a complex multi-faceted reform
program. The project was rated unsatisfactory for a period o f twenty one months from
November 2003 to September 2005 on account o f slow disbursements and poor progress
on a number o f components. The project was restructured in December 2005 to attempt
to address some o f the problems that had arisen. Resources were re-allocated away from
an under-performing component (training) in order to finance the building o f core
systems (AFMIS). The financing o f training activities was shifted to the accompanying
Dutch financed Civil Service Modernization Trust Fund and refocused towards building
capacity for carrying out reforms exclusively.                     Additionally, the Bank increased
supervision, which, coupled with determined leadership on the Yemeni side, led to the
achievement o f important project milestones.

11. Since then, project results have been encouraging.                       The project has been rated
"satisfactory" in terms o f meeting its development objectives and "marginally
satisfactory" or above in terms o f implementation for the past twenty four months. In
two o f the four project components the government has exceeded target objectives and is
moving the project to the next stage inthe reform agenda. Inother aspects o f the project,
good progress has also been made, but it has come at a slower pace than anticipated.

12.    The original project had four main components: (i)                    Improve core systems; (ii)
Rationalize the size and capacity o f the Civil Service; (iii)            Reengineer pilot Government
agencies; and (iv) Buildcapacity.

13.    The original project has exceeded its core system improvement delivery targets. In
terms o f Personnel Management, personnel records that were either non-existent or
destroyed as a result o f the civil war have now been compiled and verified in respect o f
all civil servants. The civil service counts are reliable and continuously kept up to date.
A computerized employee database is maintained which includes updated relevant
information regarding qualifications, seniority and wages o f all government employees.1
This system has been implemented across the country through the creation o f 23
Regional Information Centers. Over the past few months, the system has been expanded
beyond the civil service to include the judiciary. Work i s ongoing to include the military,
and the security services.              Hiring has been made more transparent, through the
centralization o f the process at the level o f the civil service ministry and the definition o f
standards and benchmarks for hiring. Training programs for HR managers have been
developed and delivered.               A job classification system is in the early stages o f
development along with the definition ofjob descriptions.




' This database i s currentlybeingupdatedand complementedwith biometric informationwhich will enable the
government to effectively eliminatethe overwhelmingmajority of double dippersandghostworkers from its payroll.



                                                      3

14.   In terms of Public Financial Management Reform, an accounting and financial
management system including budget management, expenditure controls and accounting
framework has been introduced. This computerized system is managed and used within
the Ministry o f Finance and has been rolled out to the three largest ministries: Education,
Health and Public Works. Interms o f other systems, consistency in the existing payroll
system has been considerably improved as a result o f the introduction o f the wage
strategy andprocedures are beingcontinuously streamlined.

15.   Under the streamlining and rationalization component, project development
objectives have also been exceeded. Accomplishments include: (i)         the enforcement of
retirement rules and the referral to the pension authorities o f approximately 67,000
individuals who had effectively passed the retirement age, more than doubling the
pension system's enrolment; (ii)  the exclusion from the payroll o f approximately 11,000
individuals whose main activity was working for political parties but were considered
government employees; (iii)the       transfer o f civil servants salaries to their agency,
decentralizing the workforce at the governorate level and increasing wage management
transparency; (iv) the identification and freezing o f salaries o f over 50,000 suspected
double dippers, or 13 percent o f the total civil service; and (v) the identification o f 7,500
civil servants and their transfer to the civil service redundancy fund. As evidenced in
Chart 1below, in both 2006 and 2007, the total number o f civil service employees was
less than inthe preceding year, meaning that departures have outpaced new hiring.

               Chart 1: TrendsinCivilService Employment:1990-2007

                                                                                     25%

                                                                                     20%

                                                                                     15%

                                                                                     10% c

                                                                                     5%    8zl
                                                                                     0%    8

                                                                                     -5%

                                                                                     -TO%

                                                                                    -15%



                                      mloyees (`000)-.c Growth
                                                       %      1


16. The process o f enhancing the quality and efficiency o f providing specific
government services through the reengineering process has also progressed, but at a
slower than anticipated pace. Mandates o f selected pilot agencies (the Ministry o f Civil
Service, the supreme audit institution, the tax and the customs agencies) have been
reviewed, and an assessment o f the responsibilities and operational objectives o f the pilot
agencies based on functional analysis has been undertaken. Duplication and potential
overlaps were identified. The next step inthis reform will be to actually implement these


                                              4

studies taking the recommendations into account.           The project also included an
Innovation Fund which was aimed at providing reengineering support to agencies for
potential quick fixes and early wins for the reform.        This Innovation Fund is now
operational andthe first group o fprojects funded by the IFhas been completed.

17.   Finally, the project and its accompanying Dutch Trust Fund contributed to
generating capacity to sustain and implement longer term reform program and also to
develop skills to manage and administer a modem civil service. Inthe first dimension o f
the program, an ongoing training program was developed and delivered to over 3,500
employees expected to cany out tasks associated with the implementation o f the public
sector reform program inthe government. This training ranacross the whole spectrum o f
offering, concentrating on tasks directly relevant to their expected job requirements and
expectations. Under the second dimension, the project fhded - inthe absence o f a well
performing national institution for training of civil servants - training programs at Sana'a
Universityincollaboration with international schools o fpublic administration such as the
University o f Lieven (Holland) and Maastricht University. A number o f mid-level and
high-level management personnel (approximately 45) were selected and sponsored to
attend a Master in Public Administration (MPA) or a Master in Business administration
(MBA) program. Another batch o f civil servants (120) were selected and sponsored to
attend a public administration certificate course (6 month intensive program) to improve
their skills andcapacity.

Rationalefor theAdditional Credit

18.   The original CSMP constituted a first step in a longer term strategy o f
implementing public sector reform and the 2002 CAS made provisions for a follow up
project to the present Civil Service Modernizationproject. The project's closing date was
then extended to December 2007. Because o f the accelerated project implementation
pace, the tangible reform success in terms o f establishing controls and the increase in
Yemen's allocation in 2007, the government has requested the continuation of IDA
support for the reform program. The Government wanted to move quickly and since the
needed financing was mainly focused on enhancements and expansion o f the original
project, additional financing o f CSMP was deemed to be the best option. The proposed
program was narrowed down to exclude subprojects that build on current achievements
and can be immediately implemented. In July 2007 the Government o f Yemen sent a
formal request for the additional financing and confirmed that the proposed investments
would be a top priority o f the Government o fYemen.

19. The proposed additional credit will permit the scale-up o f activities to enhance the
development impact o f a well-performing project. Additional financing i s the optimal
mechanism, at this juncture, to maximize the project effectiveness and its development
impact for multiple reasons. First, the proposed additional financing is timely, in that
there i s a narrow but significant window o f opportunity for achieving important
milestones inthe short term. The proposed core system activities are intendedto scale up
the program o f support to government management at a propitious moment and would
build upon the achievements o f the original project, while beingreasonable in scope and
enjoying strong ownership and commitment on the part o f the Government. Second, the
proposed investments could reasonably be made within the two and one-half year


                                             5

implementation period as they are o f a much smaller scale than the original project, and
would build upon now established processes. Additionally, the project would rely on a
capable PMUto implement the activities, and would benefit from lessons learned. Third,
the proposed activities have the same profile as those implemented under the original
project and therefore are consistent with the DOs and aligned with the current Country
Assistance Strategy.
111.    PROPOSED    CHANGES

20.    The Project Development Objectives o f the original CSMP would remain
unchanged. However, due to the adjustments in scope and scale, the additional financing
would require some modifications to the key performance indicators to ensure they are
aligned with the expanded project activities. The project's closing date o f December 31,
2007 was extended to June 30, 2010 in order to allow the activities under additional
financing to be implemented in a period o f 30 months, which i s within the prescribed
limit for additional financing.
Implementation Arrangements under theAdditional Financing

21. The additional project activities will be implemented by only the CSMP Project
Management Unit (PMU), one o f the two project PIUs. (Starting inNovember 2007, the
AFMIS PIU is being progressively phased out.) The CSMP PIU is well managed and
staffed and has been provided with the necessary financial resources from government
counterpart funds to implement the additional work. The PMU has acquired substantial
experience in project management, which would reduce the risk o f delayed project
execution.    To enhance the PMU performance under the additional credit's short
implementation period, the team will be reinforced with a local Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer to track indicators for the original and additional financing projects.
Records andresponsibilities o f the AFMIS PIUwill cease on April 2008, once the last o f
the original contract payments hasbeendisbursed.

22.    The cost o fthe additional investments is estimated at US$17.33 million equivalent,
and it would be financed by a GOY contribution o f US$3.33 million equivalent and an
IDA credit in the amount o f US$14.00 million equivalent. A detailed cost table is
attached (Annex 4) and a summary i s given below:




   Enhancing the effectiveness o f           1.34             6.06            7.40
   Government Apparatus

   Total                                     3.33            14.00           17.33


23.   A detailed Procurement Planhas beenpreparedby the Borrower and was reviewed
and determined acceptable by IDA (Annex 6). The Procurement Plan details all
procurement activities envisaged under the proposed additional financing as well as
activities currently underway inthe original loan. The Procurement Planwill be updated


                                            6

annually or as required to reflect the actual implementation needs and submitted to IDA
for review and no objection. All works would be tendered following ICB procedures.
Selection o f consultant firms would follow Quality-Cost-Based-Selection (QCBS), and
Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures, as well as selection o f individual consultants
(IC).    All proposed procurement procedures would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines as further detailed in the procurement annex to this Project Paper. Equipment
and furniture would be procured locally following NCB and shopping procedures, as
required.
Iv.     CONSISTENCY WITH CAS

24.    The proposed additional financing is consistent with the objectives o f the May
2006 CAS for Yemen, namely "increasing fiscal sustainability and local government
development through support to public sector reform."       Public administration reform
through strengthenedcore systems and service improvements inselected central agencies
undergoing restructuring will be consistent with these objectives. Furthermore, the
project objectives align with the CAS pillars o f (i)  diversifying growth through better
governance and better delivery o f public services; (ii)improving human development
through more efficient service delivery and improved safety nets; and (iii)      increasing
fiscal sustainability through improvedpublic expenditure management.
v.      APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES

25.    Investments contemplated under this extended credit will consist o f scaling-up o f
activities related to development o f core systems and support services in order to ensure
sustainability o f these investments over a longperiod and to take advantage o f substantial
economies o f scale. Additionally, the program will seek to deepen the restructuring
work-stream by providing support for implementing earlier studies and reports. As the
matrix in Annex 1 indicates, the CSMP project initially sought to move forward under
five main headings: (1) streamlining government; (2) enhancing human resource
management; (3) implementing adjustments in the public sector labor force; (4)
enhancing the management o f financial resources; and (5) improved performance
management. Inresponse to suggestions by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
for reducing the complexity o f the project, the bulk o f Bank support under the extension
will focus along two dimensions: a) core systems improvements and b) enhancing the
effectiveness o f government's apparatus. Both are discussed ingreater detail below.

1.CoreSystemsImprovements

26.    A well-functioning public administration relies upon a number o f core systems to
assist in the effective management o f its human and financial resources. Additional
CSMP financing will support reforms that are designed to increase the transparency and
efficiency with which public resources are used and move towards a performance based,
professional civil service. The additional financing will support activities designed to
improve the policies, processes, practices, and procedures in each o f the core systems
under reform through design and deployment o f appropriate information systems using
technology. The financing will also support policies that, to the extent possible, are
designed to ameliorate the adverse social impacts o f redundancies. These investments




                                              7

help to ensure that the current systems are used to their full capability and remain
sustainable over the longrun. They are described indetail below.

27.   Establishinga HumanResource Management Framework: This component seeks to
improve employment policies and practices in a phased manner, in order to make
progress towards the goal o f establishing a modem, merit-based public administration.
During its current phase, the CSMP project has focused on reviewing existing human
resource policies to identify shortfalls; developing a human resource management
strategy; developing polices and practices in line with this strategy; developing and
implementing a new job classification system; and instituting a program o f training
designed to support the development and implementation o f modem human resource
management polices.        The additional financing will provide continued technical
assistance inthe development o f a human resource strategy, focusing on establishment o f
controls and the development o f transparent criteria for the staffing o f each position
within government. It will include technical assistanceto the Civil Service Fund, which
serves as a public employee redundancy facility. The fund has been in operation since
2005 and has generally been performing well. However, given the scope o f the
redundancy problem in Yemen, it will be important to install a process o f continuous
evaluation and improvement for the Fund's mechanisms and outcomes. The estimated
budget for this activity is expected to be around US$0.6 million o f which
US$O.15 millionwill be covered by the additional financing.

28.   Movement towards a Merit Based Civil Service. The additional financing will
support the overhaul o f the current civil service law and enabling legislationto ensure the
development o f a modem civil service. Under this expanded work stream, assistancewill
be provided to the Government for the development o f a testing service within the civil
service to ensure that any staff assigned to a position i s capable o f perfonning the tasks
that are associated with that post. Support will also be provided for the development o f a
mechanism to ensure that identified dependent employees who are eligible to be
reassigned to vacancies are qualified to handlethe roles and responsibilities o f their new
jobs. Changes will be approved by cabinet and submitted to parliament. In addition,
assistance will be provided to the government in defining an action plan for the
development o f a performance enhancing wage structure which fundamentally changes
performance incentives with the focus on developing the modalities for implementation
inabudget-friendlyway. The estimated budget for this activity is expected to be around
US$l million.

29.   Ensuring the Reliability and Consistency of Personnel Information Management:
The aim o f this activity i s to complete the work already undertaken in the compilation
and verification o f personnel records and their regular updating in the appropriate
distributed physical location. In the first phase o f the project, an employee census was
conducted and an Employee Database (EDB) was developed and populated. Procedures
to maintain the EDB current and the technical infrastructure necessary for this purpose
were also developed.      Currently, permanent employee identification cards are being
issued to civil servants using a biometrics identification system to ensure that each
employee has only onejob inthe civil service.




                                              8

30.     To ensure sustainability o f the system, the additional financing will be used to
implement HR data archiving procedures through the development o f an Electronic
Document Archival System. The digitized records backed up by the paper version o f the
HumanResource files will ensurethat HumanResource database isnot lost, misplacedor
tampered with, thereby enhancing the integrity o f the system. The estimated budget for
this activity is US$0.7 million.

31. Moreover, the additional financing will provide support for technical assistance,
computerization, and training related to the development o f a full fledged Human
Resource Management Information System, which can be updated on-line based on
information entered at remote Regional Information Centers (RICs) located in each
governorate. The estimated budget for this activity is US$3.225 million consisting o f
US$0.85 million intechnical assistance and US$2.375 million inequipment.

32.     Improving Payroll Procedures:          The additional financing will focus on the
introduction o f a computerized nominal payroll system that links the financial resource
management and the personnel management systems. During the current phase o f the
project the payroll procedure has beenstandardized and streamlined. The architecture for
the whole system has been developed.              The additional financing will focus on the
implementation o f this system. The estimated budget for this activity i s approximately
US$1.7 million, mainly inequipment.

33.     Completing the Roll-out o f the AFMIS System to Ministry Headquarters in Sana'a:
Using web enabled technology and taking advantage o f the biometric system
infrastructure and hardware procured under the project, the AFMIS system will be rolled
out to all government agencies inSana'a. Additionally, under the additional financing an
o f f the shelf Cash Management and commitment control module will be included in this
stage o f implementation. The estimated budget for this activity i s approximately US$1.8
million, divided evenly between technical assistance and equipment o f which US$1.5
millionwill be fundedby the additional financing.

34.     By rolling out the system to the HQo f all Government ministries and agencies in
Sana'a, the system will be able to provide comprehensive data on expenditure for the
Central Government. This i s an important but intermediate achievement. To ensure that
the system is hlly operationalized, it will have to be extended to the governorate and
district level. While this cannot be accommodated within the limited time o f the current
project, it remains a development priority in ensuring that public financial management is
improvedinYemen.

2. Enhancing the Effectiveness of the GovernmentApparatus

35.     This i s the second pillar o f reform. It will continue to focus on the need to enhance
the quality and efficiency o f specific services provided by government institutions. The
restructuring process will aim to: (1) streamline organizational structures; (2) simplify
business processes (workflow,            policies,  procedures,    decision making,     staffing
requirements); and (3) put in place basic information systems. To do this, additional
financing will be provided in a number o f key areas. These include continuation o f the
process of restructuring and reengineering inpilot agencies, consistent with the designed


                                                  9

program. This will entail development the project charter, project design document and
the project implementation plan for five o f the six pilot agencies. Finally it includes
analyzing staff requirements, introducing job descriptions, and identifying surplus staff.
Each is discussedbelow ingreater detail.

36.   Reengineering o f Pilot Institutions:         Under the original CSMP project,
reengineering studies were initiated and completed in four pilot ministries and agencies.
The European Union proceeded with parallel financing for three agencies. This process
has led to the development o f diagnostic studies for seven agencies. The additional
financing will support the phased implementation o f these studies. The Ministry o f Civil
Service will be the only agency to proceed with restructuring on an expedited basis. This
ministryhas already undertaken extensive work inthe development its project charter and
project implementation plans and is therefore ready to proceed with the remaining phases
to complete the re-engineering process.        Additionally, given the lack o f capacity
evidenced during the current phase o f implementation, it i s expected that the restructured
agency will provide dynamic management and support to the overall reform process and
therefore obviate some o f the capacity constraints that have been hampering
implementation so far.

37.   The remaining pilot agencies will focus on developing a project charter, a project
design document and a project implementation plan, following a consistent phased
approach outlined in the Re-engineering Program Management Framework developed
duringimplementation o fthe current phase. Duringthe initial period, the authorities will
determine if the current pilots are still meeting the requirements o f political commitment
and progress. Those agencies that do not effectively meet these criteria will be phased
out o f the reform process. The additional financing will support technical assistance to
the agencies in developing the required outputs and to support implementation o f the
project plan.

38.   The estimated budget for this activity i s approximately US$5.25 million for
technical assistance to five or six pilot agencies. In addition to this, US$l.05 million o f
the additional financing has been earmarked for training and capacity building activities
relatedto the reengineering effort.

39.   Additionally, under this component, work will be undertakento provide support to
the Government Mandate Reform. Duringthe current phase o f the reform program, with
the assistance o f an international consultant, a diagnostic study addressing the mandate
and functions o f government and possible approaches to mapping these functions into a
streamlined government structure was completed. The next phase o f the reform requires
that their approaches and recommendations be internalized by the Yemeni authorities
before they deliberate and arrive at a consensus on the mandate and functions o f the
government.     To do this, the president in October 2007 appointed a Presidential
Commission on the Mandate o f the Government, headed by a very influential member o f
the Shura Council and incorporating members o f the government, parliament, the
judiciary and civil society. The Commissionwill be assistedby a technical secretariat. Its
job will be to ensure that the Presidential Commission has all the appropriate information
and develops various options for the commission to evaluate so that the members o f the



                                             10

commission can take these into account intheir deliberation and perform the difficult task
o f defining the mandate o fthe Government that the President has entrusted to them.

40.    Resources will be re-allocated from the current credit to provide long term
technical assistance to this secretariat.      The estimated budget for this activity i s
US$500,000.

41.    Improving the Operation o f the Innovation Fund: The Innovation Fund is an
important instrument to reward enterprising public officials and support "bottom up"
reforms within the public sector. Under the current phase o f the project, the Innovation
Fundhas beenhaltedbecauseo fits inefficiency and lack o fresources. There is aneed to
review its first year o f implementation and invest additional resources to enable it to
succeed. If successful, the Innovation Fundwill complement and add to the portfolio o f
reform initiatives taking place to streamline, rationalize and re-engineer government
operations. Additionally, the government could use the IF to harness and channel
resources from donors interested in providing technical assistance to support similar
reform initiatives, thereby ensuring a broad, overall consistency in the reform efforts,
with less chance o f duplication in efforts, and within a framework where activities and
results are monitored, controlled and reported usinga common yardstick.

42.    The estimated amount for this activity i s US$1 million, o f which US$300,000 will
be dedicated for technical assistance to be financed from the existing credit and
US$700,000 will consist o f seed money for the second round o f implementation o f
projects which will be funded bythe additional financing.

43.    Improve Monitoring and Evaluation: Under this component, resources will be
devoted to continue the human resource development and capacity building for a filly
functioning reform program management structure across the government based on: (1) a
clear chain o f command and reporting structures; (2) clear job descriptions; (3) clear
performance evaluation criteria for individual managers and implementation staff; and (4)
a well-defined, functioning program supported by a monitoring and evaluation system.
On-going technical support for program management (procurement, auditing, and project
management) will also be provided. This component will support the development o f a
full fledged monitoring and evaluation system for the government o f Yemen, building
upon the diagnostic studies undertaken under the original program and with the benefito f
the Bank's just intime support inthis area. This issue was highlighted by QAG as one o f
the shortcomings o f the project to date.       The estimated budget for this activity is
US$0.4 million, mainly for technical assistance.

A.      Technical

44.    The technical appraisal o f the project focused on ensuring that comments included
inthe 2006 QAGreview of the project were fully taken into account. Accordingly, the
following precautions have been taken in the design o f the additional financing and the
definition o fthe work program.

45.    The project design has been simplified. The CSMP project, starting from a zero-
base, focused on assisting the government in developing its thinking relating to reform


                                             11

over a spectrum o f activities. Over the seven years o f project implementation, a large
amount o f diagnostic work on all sectors o f relevance has beenundertaken, while limited
reforms o f a smaller subset o f this issues was carried out. While this approach enabled
the development o f well thought out reform processes such as the PFM and
anticorruption, it certainly created a complex andunwieldy lending project. The scope o f
the action o f the additional financing has been narrowed and restrictedto select activities
among a wider spectrum. The outlook o f the additional financing i s to ensure that
ongoing activities are not left incomplete and only priority areas are strengthened in the
next thirty months, to ensure that Government capacity i s not excessively taxed.
Specifically, the AFMIS project will be rolled out to all central ministries and agencies in
Sana'a and phased out o f CSMP. While marginal improvements to the system will be
covered through the additional financing, the development work ended in 2007 and the
bulk o fthe activities associated with this component will be coming to an end by the end
o f 2008.   Dialogue relating to public financial management improvements will be
transferred to the Public Financial Management Initiative. The roll out to governorates
and district levels remains a top development priority in public financial management,
but cannot be achieved within the extended timeframe o fthe project. The subsequentroll
out o f the system will have to be achieved through a different lending instrument. The
elimination o f the AFMIS component from the project will remove a significant source o f
implementation complexity.

46.   Emphasis inthe next phase will be placed on the development o f a Monitoring and
Evaluation System. The initial phase o f the project did not achieve the intendedresults in
terms o f the development of a Monitoring and Evaluation System. This lacuna will now
be rectified in the next phase o f the program. As is noted inthe description o f proposed
components, CSMP i s expected to finance long term technical assistance in this area.
The focus o f this assistance will be two-fold: the development o f a coherent system
consistent with the country's conditions and the development o f capacity to
systematically carry out M&E, including delivery o f training and other means o f capacity
building.

B.      Fiduciary

47.   Procurement. Procurement activities will be carried out by the CSMP PMU, which
has a proven record in handling technical, fiduciary, and contract management
responsibilities. The procurement planpresents the procurement packages and tendering
methods agreed by the Bank. Procurement o f goods would, whenever possible follow
ICB procedures, and two contracts would be tendered in accordance with N C B
procedures. Selection o f consultant firms would follow Quality-Cost-Based-Selection
(QCBS), and Consultant Qualification Selection (CQS) procedures.               Selection o f
individual consultants would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for selection o f
Individual Consultants (IC). Equipment and fbmiture in the context o f the Innovation
Fund for example, would be procured locally following NCB and shopping procedures,
as required. The bidding documents developed for similar procurement in the original
project would be adopted for these particular tenders, which are acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement o f contracts would be conducted through the procedures as specified inthe
May 2004 (revised in October 2006) version o f the World Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits. Consulting services would be selected



                                             12

inaccordance with World Bank's Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of Consultants
by World Bank's Borrowers, and would be open to all eligible bidders as defined inthe
guidelines dated May 2004 (revised in October 2006). Supervision missions would bi-
annually review project implementation activities including procurement                 and
disbursement. Local procurement staff will continue to provide support to the project on
a day to day basis.

48.   Financial Management. From a financial management perspective the on-going
Civil Service Modernization Project in Yemen i s being implemented under moderately
satisfactory FM arrangements as the financial management problems identified earlier in
the project span were in the AFMIS PIU which will phase out by April 2008 and
transitional procedures have already been put inplace and agreed to devolve the financial
management o f the AFMIS to the CSMP PIU. The project submitted its annual audit
reports and quarterly interim financial reports on time. On the other hand the FM risks
for the project remain substantial due to the current transitional arrangements to
successhlly devolve the phasing out o f AFMIS PIU responsibilities to the CSMP PIU,
which may reveal additional staffing needs and adjusting o f the current FM
arrangements.

49.   The supervision practices would remain the same, with two supervision missions a
year; this is to ensure that the financial management system inplace is maintained.

C.      Safeguards

The project does not trigger any safeguards.

VI.     EXPECTED    OUTCOMES

50.   Just like the original project, the additional financing will assist the government to
improve the management o f its economy by increasing transparency in the management
o f Human and Financial Resources. Specific outcomes include defining the appropriate
size and composition o f the civil service to face challenges o f a modern social and
economic situation.

VII.    BENEFITSAND RISKS

Benefits

51.   The primary benefit will be to put in place the foundation for a public sector that:
(i) servicestothepublicinatimelyandeffectivemannerand(ii)smorecost-
    delivers                                                                    i
effective. Direct benefits o f the project include effective position controls, which are
currently not in place and more timely and accurate reporting on government
expenditures. Eventually, in later stages o f the reform, Wher benefits are expected for:
(i)qualified civil servants, who willberewardedfor goodperformance withhigher
salaries; (ii) the population, which can expect higher quality, more efficient delivery o f
public services.




                                              13

Risks

52.   Weakened Political Commitment to Reform: There i s a risk o f weakened political
commitment to reform and a slowdown in the implementation o f the National Reform
Agenda as a result o f opposition from interest groups. However, the Government i s
determination to reach out and engage all interested stakeholders in a continuous
dialogue-a    strategy that has already proved successful- which is expected to minimize
this risk.   Moreover, increased donor coordination around the public administration
reform agenda has allowed civil service reform to remain high on the development
agenda. Continued Bank and donor engagement on the reform agenda is essential at this
stage inthe reformprocess to set clear objectives and milestones.

53.   Slow-down in the reform during the period preceding Parliamentarian elections
expected next year (2009). The possibility o f this happening is significant, given past
experience in this type o f situation. Given the sensitivity o f reforms associated with
public employment as well as rationalization o f public finances, it is likely that during
this period the project will experience a slowdown. This risk has beentaken into account
inthe design of the project with additional financing. The project activities have been
front loaded, and no new activities are expected to be launched in the period between
March and September 2009. This periodwill insteadbe dedicated to the consolidation o f
ongoing reforms and implementing the contracts awarded in2008.

54.   Weak Implementation Capacity: The CSMP as a long-term multi-sector program
in three stages requires high-level managerial and technical capacity.        If this is not
available, there i s a risk o f delay in the implementation. This risk is mitigatedby the
presence o f a competent project team with over seven years o f experience in the
preparation and implementation o f the current project. It i s headed by a dynamic and
committed General Manager and comprises about 10 full-time staff responsible for
financial management, procurement, and coordinators for each o f the different work
streams.

55.   Additional mitigation comes from project design which will create some additional
capacity for improved management. Yet this i s not enough to scale up the project.
Additional top level expertise to manage the process has to be developed.

56.   To enhance and strengthen implementation capacity inpreparation for undertaking
the next phase o f reforms, the plan i s to focus as a priority on the restructuring o f the
Ministry of Civil Service and to develop it as an effective program management unit.
This unit will be composed o f approximately fifty highly qualified staff. (The current
ministry has approximately 400). To ensure that the highest caliber professionals are
hired, the plani s to amend the wage strategy to include a fifth phase, which will raise the
salaries of civil servants to competitive levels vis-&vis the private sector.

57.   Social risks associated with technical assistance to the Civil Service Fund:
Although none o f the social safeguard policies are triggered, there is a possibility support
to the Civil Service Fundmay entail social andreputational risks for the Bank associated
withmanaginga redundancy program.




                                              14

58.   The Government has committed itself to carefully monitor any negative social
impacts and take "proper safeguards against associated negative social consequences."
Severance payments, currently averaging US$14,000 ensure adequate compensation to
retrenched employees. Additionally, the Fund has established a monitoring system to
follow up on their economic andsocial status afterwards.

59.   Implementation activities will include the update o f the Social Assessment
originally conducted in 1999. Budgetary allocations for this activity have been made,
and they have been included in the Procurement Plan. This activity is expected to be
finalized by early 2009. The results of such an assessment will be combined with the
recommendations emanating from the other TA activity and will be used as input to
modify the procedures o fthe Civil Service Fund.

60.   The Bank will also seek to carefully monitor this issue, and will include a social
scientist inits supervision team to: (a) assess the social consequences andimpacts (ifany)
o f the redundancies which occurred during the implementation o f the CSMP, (b) assess
the monitoring system established by the Government for mitigating the negative social
impacts and (c) assist inthe preparation o f a TOR for the update o f the social assessment
which be carried out during implementation and for which project hnds have been
allocated.


VIII. FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

61.   The financing o f the additional credit would be on the same terms as for the
Original Project, i.e. on standard IDA terms (40 years to maturity, 10 years grace period).
The credit will be denominated in SDR, and the foreign exchange risk and repayment
obligations would be retainedbythe Republic o f Yemen.




                                             15

                        ANNEX1:DETAILEDPROJECT         DESCRIPTION


Component1: CoreSystemsImprovements

62.     A well-functioning public administration relies upon a number o f core systems to
assist in the effective management o f its human and financial resources. Additional
CSMP financing will support reforms that are designed to increase the transparency and
efficiency with which public resources are used and move'towards a performance based,
professional civil service. The additional financing will support activities designed to
improve the policies, processes and practices, in each o f the core systems under reform
through design and deployment o f appropriate information systems using computer
technology. These investmentswill help to ensure that the current systems are used to
their full capability and remain sustainable over the long run. These are described in
detail below.

63.     The core systems improvement component seeks to upgrade employment policies
and practices in a phased manner, with the aim o f establishing a modern, merit-based
public administration.

Subcomponent 1: Development of a Human Resources Management Framework

64.     During its current phase, the CSMP project has focused on reviewing existing
humanresource policies to identify shortfalls; developing a humanresource management
strategy; developing polices and practices in line with this strategy; developing and
implementing a new job classification system; and instituting a program o f training
designed to support the development and implementation o f modern human resource
management polices and practices.       The additional financing will provide continued
technical assistance in the development o f a human resource strategy, focusing on
establishment o f controls and the development o f transparent criteria for the staffing o f
each position within government. It will include technical assistanceto the Civil Service
Fund, which serves as a public employee redundancy facility, including the update o f the
social assessment study, originally developed in 1999 to mitigate the potential social
consequences andimpacts (ifany) of retrenchment.

65.     The fundhas been inoperation since 2005 andhas generally beenperforming well.
However, given the scope o f the redundancy problem in Yemen, it will be important to
install a process o f continuous evaluation and improvement for the Fund's mechanisms
and outcomes.       The estimated budget for this activity is expected to be around
US$0.6 million o fwhich US$O.15 million will be covered by the additional financing.

66.     The project will also work to develop a HumanResource Management Information
System buildingupon existingcore applications to maintain up to date records in respect
o f all public service personnel ina centralized database. This IT application will leverage
the data captured by the Biometric Identification System to enable the creation o f a
repository o f employee master records that will be devoid o f duplicates, thus enabling
accurate wage bill calculations and qualify as a clean data feed to an automated nominal



                                              16

payroll system. The HRMIS will also be expanded to include Pensioner records and
Applicants. The expected budget for this activity is US$2.5 million.         An additional
US$2.00 million is expected to be received from the EU for additional HW/SW to
augment the infrastructure capacity required to support deployment o f the HRMIS
system.

67.   Inadditionto providing technical assistanceinthe amount ofUS$0.3 million for a
study aimed at developing a fill fledged HR management strategy the additional
financing will support training and capacity building for Human Resource Management
to the tune o fUS$l.9 million.



I 1-TA-1 I TA for study aimedat developing a full fledged forward focused   I      0.3     I
             HR management strategy based on the diagnosis and inputs
             developed inthe first phase.

  1-CB-1     Training and capacity buildingfor Human Resource Management            1.9

   I-G-1     HW, SW, Networkequipment andinstallationo fthe HRMIS to be           2.375
             deployed incentral ministries in Sana'a.

  1-TA-2     Update for the Social Assessment o f the CSF.                         0.15


Sub-component2: Movement towards a Merit Based Civil Service

68.   The additional financing will support the overhaul o f the current civil service law
and enabling legislationto ensure the development of a modem civil service. Under this
expanded work stream, assistance will be provided to the Government in developing a
testing service within the civil service to ensure that any staff assigned to a position i s
capable and has the capacity to perform the duties as well as assume the responsibilities
associated with the job.     Support will also be provided for the development o f a
mechanism to ensure that identified redundant employees who are eligible to be
reassigned to vacancies are qualified to handle the roles and responsibilities o f their new
job. Changes will be approved by cabinet and submitted to parliament. In addition,
assistance will be provided to the government to develop an action plan for the design
and introduction o f a performance enhancing wage structure which fundamentally
changes performance incentives with the focus on developing the modalities for
implementation in a budget friendly way. The estimated budget for this activity i s
expected to be around US$0.4 million.




                                              17

I   (TA)    1service within the Civil Service                                 I
   1-TA-4    TA to develop an action planto design and introduce a               0.2
    (TA)     performance enhancing wage structure


Subcomponent 3 - Improving the core system infrastructure

a) Ensuring the Reliability and Consistency of Personnel Information Management:

69.   The aim o f this activity is to complete the work already undertaken in the
compilation and verification o f personnel records and their regular updating in the
appropriate distributedphysical location.

i) Maintainingtheintegrityofthepersonnelrecords

70.   In the first phase of the project, an employee census was conducted and an
Employee Database (EDB) was developed andpopulated. Duringthe initial phase o f the
CSMP, personnel files were created for all known Civil Service employees. Up to date
files containing paper documents are currently maintained for 97 percent of all civil
servants in a centralized known location, including records o f civil servants recently
transferred to pension authority. As part o f its strategic goal to deploy an operational
management system for all public employees, the CSMP i s planning to acquire and
implement an Electronic Document Archival System (EDAS), which will digitize index
and archive paper based personnel records. This system will greatly improve the
efficiency o fpersonnel recordmanagement while reducing and ultimately eliminating the
need for physical storage space




    (TA)     and Electronic Document Archival System (EDAS) and develop
             functional and technical specifications for both the manual and
             EDAS system.

   1-TA-6    TA to define the manualand electronic records management            0.2
    (TA)     requirements, setup test and operationalize the manual and EDAS
             management system includingprovision o f training.

   1-G-2     Acquisition o f a turn-key system for Electronic Document           0.4
  (Goods)    Archival including design and engineering, supply o f HW/SW,
             customization, integration, testing, deployment and
             operationalization along with training and maintenance.




                                                 18

..
11).    Ensuringthat the EDBremains upto date withreliable and consistent information

71. Procedures to maintain the EDB current and the technical infrastructure necessary
for this purpose were also developed.         Currently, permanent employee identification
cards are being issued to civil servants using a biometrics identification system to ensure
that each employee has only one job in the civil service.             The biometric system i s
currently being extended to include all public employees. In2008, the system will focus
on capturing biometric information for members o f the military, the security services and
the judiciary. In2009, biometric information will be captured inrespect o f all pensioners
as well as Applicants.

                                                tion

   1-TA-7    TA to define processes, procedures andarchitecture for extension       0.1
             o f the EDB systemto cover military, security services and
             judiciary personnel as well as Pensioners Applicants personnel
             records

   1-TA-8    TA to define the EDBmanagement requirements, setup test and            0.2
             operationalize the EDB management system including provision
             o f training.

    1-G-3    Acquisition o f additional HW/SW/NWto meet the functional and          0.4
             technical requirements o f the expanded EDB system including
             design and engineering, customization, integration, testing,
             deployment and operationalization along with training and
             maintenance.



b) Core System WebEnablement

72.   The government core systems (HRMIS, AFMIS) have been developed using
clientherver technology that limits their potential for large-scale deployment which
entails deployment o f servers at remote locations and additional operational overhead.
The acute shortage o f technical expertise in Yemen will make it impossible to provide
support for clienthewer technology based applications in geographically dispersed
locations. The "Web Enablement" initiative will make it possible to deliver core systems
functionality through the user's Internet browser using standard web technologies and
protocols. Under this architecture, the core systems would be deployed and maintained by
qualified technical personnel in a centralized location and bandwidth usage would be
optimized.




                                               19

  1-TA-9    TA to identify andmake changesto applicationarchitectureand        0.2
            application softwareandrecommendchanges to database and
            system softwarerequiredto ensure systemfunctionality is
            available to endusers inremote locationsusing web-enabled
            software

   1-G-4    Acquisition ofHWISW necessaryto web enable boththe HRMIS           0.3
            andAFMIS system


c) Yemen GovernmentNetwork (YG-Net)
73.   Over the last few years, several Ministries within the Government o f Yemen have
established departmental networks. AFMIS has been developed by the Ministry o f
Finance for deployment across all ministries and agencies. Similarly the Ministry of
Civil Service and Insurance has developed the HRMIS and the Biometrics system for
deployment across the country. Without a central coordination body to orchestrate the
deployment and configuration o f networks within the Government, networks have
evolved in isolation and do not adhere to a common set o f standards. In order to avoid
duplication and leverage the investment in ICT infrastructure, it i s necessary to
interconnect these disparate and isolatednetworks. The main purpose o f this project i s to
develop a common network and telecommunications infrastructure that will link
Ministries in Sana'a to form the basis for the Yemen Government Network (YG-Net).
The main data centers of the Ministry of Finance and Ministryo f Civil Service will be
linked to establish the main backbone o f YG-Net and host centralized shared services.
Connectivity would then be extended to other ministries in Sana'a, and a disaster
recovery site would also be set up and supported inAden.




  1-TA-10 TA to define the network architectureanddevelopthe hnctional         0.1
            andtechnical specificationsfor YG-Net.

  1-TA-11 TA to define the network managementrequirements, setup test          0.2
            andoperationalize the network management function including
            provision oftraining.

   1-G-5    Developmentofnetwork design andengineeringspecificationsto         0.4
            meet the functional andtechnical specificationsof YG-Net and
            supply of HWISWiNW equipment to setup deploy test
            operationalize andmanagethe YG-Net on aturn-keybasis.


d) Yemen GovernmentRegional Network (YG-Wet)
74.   As an extension to the Yemen Government Network project, the Yemen
Government Regional Network (YG-Wet) i s plannedto link regional areas to the YG-
Net. A number o f Regional Information Centers have already been connected to data



                                             20

centers in Sana'a on an as and when requiredbasis. This project would extend the reach
o f YG-Net to remote offices and other locations in support o f the government's core
systems andshared enterprise services.




             and technical specifications for YG-RNet.

  1-TA-13    TA to define the networkmanagementrequirements, setup test            0.2
             and operationalize the network management function including
             provision o ftraining.

    1-G-6    Development o fnetwork design and engineering specifications to       0.4
             meet the functional and technical specifications o f YG-RNet and
             supply o fHW/SW/NWequipment to setup deploy test
             operationalize and manage the YG-RNet on a turn-key basis.


e) Yemen Government Central ComputingPlatform (CCP)
75.   In support of its strategic goal of centralized shared services delivery, the
Government has a requirement to implement a centralized computing platform that can
scale as demand for processing capacity increases. To that end, specifications for a
Central Computing Platform will be developed and the required hardwarehoftware will
be acquired and configured to augment the capacity to enable the centralized deployment
o f shared services.




             specifications as well as technology standards for CCP.

  1-TA-15    TA to define the medium-termrequirements for CCP and set up           0.2
             the process to monitor use o f computing resources and plan for
             upgradedenhancements based on resource utilization.

    1-G-7    Acquisition of off-the shelfHW/SW/NW equipment based on               0.4
             technology standards to meet identifiedneeds in2008 and 2009.

1           I                                                                 I            I


=j,l GovernmentSharedEnterpriseServices
  Yemen

76.   The establishment o f the YG-Net governmental network and the Central
Computing Platform creates an opportunity for the Government o f Yemen to implement
centralized shared enterprise services such as: (i)   Biometric-driven identity management;
(ii)Directory services, whichwillleverage identitiesestablishedwithbiometrics data
capture; (iii)Email that will use Directory Services; (iv) Domain management (DNS)
which will ensure use o f consistent naming conventions; (v) Shared calendar; and (vi)
Enterprise information portal. The purpose o f this project is to define the requirements
for andimplement such shared enterprise services.


                                               21

             specifications for provision of shared servicesincluding
             governance, management,maintenanceandoperational
             frameworks, standards for connectivity andinteroperability.

  1-TA-17 TA to define the administrativeandmanagement infrastructure                0.2
             requirements,setup andoperationalizethe sharedservices
             management functions including provision of training.

   1-G-8     Developmentofnetwork designandengineeringspecificationsto               0.3
             meet the functional andtechnical specificationsof Shared Services
             ManagementOrganizationandsupply of HW/SW/NW equipment
             to setup deploy test operationalizeandmanage the Shared
             Servicessystems on aturn-key basis.


g) Operationalization of theBiometrics Identijkation System and theHMIS
77.   This initiative has as its main objective the realignment o f the Ministry o f Civil
Service's organizational structure to improve its capability to deliver and support its core
systems in accordance with recognized industry best practices. As part o f this effort, key
staffing positions will be identified and appropriate job descriptions will be defined. The
new organizational structure will take into account the requirements for (i)          Systems
Planning and Development; (ii)Operations Management (Data Center, Network
Operations, Database Management, Operations Support); (iii)          Information Management
(Records Management, Document Management, Content Management and (iv)
Governance, Policies and Standards.




             requirements,setup andoperationalize the Biometrics
             Identification andHRMISmanagementfunctions including
             definition ofrolesandresponsibilitiesandprovision ofjob related
             training.


Component2: Enhancingthe Effectivenessof GovernmentApparatus

78.   This i s the second pillar o f reform. It will continue to focus on the need to enhance
the quality and efficiency o f specific services provided by government institutions. The
restructuring process will aim to: (1) streamline organizational structures; (2) simplify
business processes (work flow, policies, procedures, decision making, staffing
requirements); and (3) put in place basic information systems. To do this, additional
financing will be providedina number o f key areas. They include continuing the process
o f restructuring and reengineering in pilot agencies, consistent with the designed
program. This will entail development the project charter, project design document and



                                               22

the project implementation plan for all the six pilot agencies.        Finally it includes
analyzing staff requirements, introducing job descriptions, and identifying surplus staff.
Eachi s discussed below ingreater detail.

79.   Reengineering o f Pilot Institutions:        Under the original CSMP project,
reengineering plans were developed for four pilot ministries and agencies. The European
Union proceeded with parallel financing for three agencies. This process has led to the
development o f diagnostic studies for seven agencies. The additional financing will
support the phased implementation o f these studies. The Ministry o f Civil Service will
be the only agency to proceed with restructuringon an expedited basis. This ministry has
already undertaken extensive work in the development o f its project charter and project
implementation plans and is therefore ready to proceed with the remaining phases to
complete the re-engineering process. Additionally, given the lack o f capacity evidenced
during the current phase o f implementation, it is expected that the restructured agency
will provide dynamic management and support to the overall reform process and
therefore obviate some o f ,the capacity constraints that have been hampering
implementation so far.

80.   The remaining pilot agencies will focus on developing a project charter, a project
design document and a project implementation plan, following a consistent phased
approach outlined in the Re-engineering Program Management Framework developed
during implementation o fthe current phase. Duringthe initial period, the authorities will
determine if the current pilots are still meetingthe requirements o f political commitment
and progress. Those agencies that do not effectively meet these criteria will be phased
out o f the reform process. The additional financing will support technical assistance to
the agencies in developing the required outputs and to support implementation o f the
project plan.

81. Additionally, under this component, work will be undertaken to provide support to
the Government Mandate Reform. Duringthe current phase o f the reform program, with
the assistance o f an international consultant, a diagnostic study addressing the mandate
and functions o f government and possible approaches to mapping these functions into a
streamlined government structure was completed. The next phase o f the reform requires
that their approaches and recommendations be internalized by the Yemeni authorities
before they deliberate and arrive at a consensus on the mandate and fimctions o f the
government.     To do this, the President appointed in October 2007 a Presidential
Commission on the Mandate o f the Government, headedby a very influential member o f
the Shura Council and incorporating members o f the government, parliament, the
judiciary and civil society. The Commissionwill be assistedby a technical secretariat. Its
job will be to ensure that the Presidential Commission has all the appropriate information
and develops various options for the commission to evaluate so that the members o f the
commission can take these into account intheir deliberation andperform the difficult task
o f definingthe mandate o fthe Government that the President has entrusted to them.

82.   The estimated budget for this activity is approximately US$4.855 million for
technical assistance to six pilot agencies. In addition to this, US$1.645 million from the
additional financing will be used to provide support for training and capacity building
activities aimed at Institutional Reform.


                                             23

  2-TA-1     TA to assist six pilot institutions inconducting phases 3,4 and 5   4.855
             of their Reengineering program.

  2-CB-1     Training and capacity building for Institutional Reform.             1.645



83.    Improving the Operation o f the Innovation Fund: The Innovation Fund i s an
important instrument to reward enterprising public officials and support "bottom up"
reforms within the public sector. Under the current phase o f the project, the operation o f
the Innovation Fundhas been suspendedbecause o fits inefficiency and lack o fresources.
There is a need to review its first year o f implementation and invest additional resources
to enable it to succeed. Ifsuccessful, the IF will complement and add to the portfolio o f
reform initiatives taking place to streamline, rationalize and re-engineer government
operations. Additionally, the government could use the IF to harness and channel
resources from donors interested in providing technical assistance to support similar
reform initiatives, thereby ensuring a broad, overall consistency in the reform efforts,
with less chance o f duplication in efforts, and within a framework where activities and
results are monitored, controlled and reported usinga common yardstick.

84.    The estimated amount for this activity is US$1.O million, o f which US$0.7 million
will be covered by the additional financing to provide seed money for implementation o f
projects, while US$0.3 million will be used for providing technical assistance which will
be financed from the existing loan.



I  2-o-1    ITA for providing supportto the InnovationFund                     I   Oa3      I
85.    Improve Monitoring and Evaluation: Under this component, resources will be
devoted to continue the human resource development and capacity building for a fully
functioning reform program management structure across the government based on: (1) a
clear chain o f command and reporting structures; (2) clear job descriptions; (3) clear
performance evaluation criteria for individual managers and implementation staff; and (4)
a well-defined, functioning program supported by a monitoring and evaluation system.
On-going technical support for program management (procurement, auditing, and project
management) will also be provided. This component will support the development o f a
full fledged monitoring and evaluation system for the government o f Yemen, building
upon the diagnostic studies undertaken under the original program andwith the benefit o f
the Bank'sjust intime support inthis area. This issue was highlightedby QAGas one of
the shortcomings o f the project to date.          The estimated budget for this activity i s
US$0.4 million, mainly for technical assistance.




                                                  24

(TA) of aMonitoring and EvaluationFunctioninGOY




                                   25

ANNEX2: REENGINEERING                    PROJECT  MANAGEMENT     FRAMEWORK




                             Re-engineering Program
                            Management Framework

                     A framework for deliveringon the benefitsof
                             Business ProcessRe-engineering (BPR)




                       Re-engineeringProgram ManagementFramework
                                                                  Overview
        ..........................
                 oimvERr                                             EVALUATION
        llllll_-.--.-_l




Q




                 ...........
        W""sandUau
         djs        me"enabndl




                                             26

Re-engineering ProgramManagement Framework
                                  Inception




Re-engineeringProgram Management Framework
                                  Discovery




               27

Re-engineeringProgram Management Framework
                                   Visioning




Re-engineeringProgramManagement Framework
                        Design/Development




                                           6




              28

Re-engineeringProgram Management Framework
                                  Execution




                                          7




              29

                            ANNEX3: LOGICAL           FRAMEWORK            APPROACH(LFA)


r                    For Civil Service ModernizationProjectAdditionalFinancing

         Narrative              s 2 .Objectively Verifiable'. 1           MeansofVerification               Assumptions
                                       Indicators (OM)                  >    .: `mow
                                                                               c'            .
DeveloDment Obiective:             Reduction inthe number o f            0HRMIS Database           0  Political will to
Increase inFiscal             civil service employees                    0Budget 2009 and 2010.   reduce the number o f
Sustainability and better     0    Reduction inthe Wage Bill as           Final Accounts 2009     civil servants.
Delivery o f Public Services  a percentage o f the GDP                  and 2010.                  0  Political will to
through Public                0    Improvement inWGI                     0WGI Indicators          ensure the presence o f
Administration Reform.        Indicators                                                          prior reforms measures
                                                                                                  before any wage
                                                                                                  increase.
                                         Objective 1: Core Syst is Improved
                                The right size and composition          0  Cabinet Decree          0  Political will to
HumanResource                   o f civil service defined inlight defining the right size and      define the right size and
Management Framework            o fthe revised government               composition o f civil      composition o f civil
Established                     mandate, re-engineering                 service with definitive    service.
                                studies and fiscal                      planto reachthat ina       0  Political will to fix
                                sustainability.                       time-bound manner.           minimumeducational
                              0 Job Descriptions for each post             Cabinet Decree or       qualification for each
                              inthe civil service defined.              MOCSAI Circular            post.
                                   Key Qualifications defined           defining Job Description
                              for each post inrespect to                for eachpost.
                              Education and Experience.                    Cabinet Decree or
                              0    Monitoring system inplace            MOCSAI Circular
                             for mitigating potential social            defining K e y
                             impacts o f redundancies.                  Qualifications for each
                                                                      post.
                                                                           Update social
                                                                        assessment.




OUtRUt 1.2                   0     Digitized Archival System               Digitized Archive.         Norisk foreseen.
Reliability and Consistency   for HR data developed
o f Personnel Information
Management Ensured
OUtDUt 1.3                                                ~~~      ~




                                                                       0  HRMIS and Payroll           Ability to linkall
Payroll Procedures           0  Personnel Database and                    linked to each other.    RICs ina stable manner
Improved                        Payroll are `directly' linked to
                                ensure data consistency and                Payroll Audit reports.  inpresence ofcurrent
                                                                                                   telecom infrastructure.
                                monthly reconciliation.

                                Required changes to personnel
                                records andpayroll are
                                updatedmonthly.

                              o Authority to change records
                                andpayroll i s restricted and
                                results inaudit trails.
                             8           A strong systemo f
                             annual payroll audits exists to
                             identify control weaknesses



                                                              30

         Narrative

                             and/or ghost workers.
Output 1.4                   0  AFMIS System functional in         AFMIS basedM I S        0  Staff i s motivated
AFMIS System Rolled-out      all ministry headquarters in      Reports on Monthly          enough to take the
to Ministry Headquarters in Sana'a                             Expenditure with            burden o f using the
Sana'a                       0  An off-the-shelf Cash          Economic and Functional     AFMIS and manual
                             Management and Commitment         Classification.             system inparallel.
                             Control Systems developed         0   Daily Cash flow and
                                                               Arrear reports available.


                          ni
                          -. !ctive2: Effectivenessof Govern ent Apparatus Enhanced,
Output 2.1                       Merit-based Selection system  0   A national competitive  e Political will to
Merit Based Civil Service    for the middle and senior civil   exam i s held to select     establish a merit based
Established.                 servants established.             civil servants on the basis selection and system.
                                 Seniority cumMerit based      o f merit.                     Political will to
                             Promotion System established.     e Cabinet Decree            establish seniority cum
                             0   Performance based incentives  approving seniority-cum-    merit basedpromotion
                             and disincentives established for merit based promotion       system.
                             accountability.                   system followed by
                                                               MOCSAI circular.
                                                                   Cabinet Decree
                                                               followed by MOCSAI
                                                               Circular defining
                                                               perfomnce based
                                                               incentives and
                                                               disincentives.
Output 2.2                   0   Re-engineeringplan o f        0   Status o f Outputs o f     Political will to
Reengineering o f Pilot      MOCSAI implemented                MOCSAIReengineering         Reform.
Institutions Done                Project Charter, Project      Plan.                       0  Status o f Pilot
                             Design Document and Project           Implementation Plan     Agencies inview o f
                             Implementation Plan for all Pilot o f Pilot Agencies          recommendations o f
                             Agencies Developed                                            Presidential
                                                                                           Commission on
                                                                                           Government Mandate.
Output2.3                        Technical Secretariat to      0   Report o f Presidential  0 Political will to
Government Mandate           support Presidential Commission   Commission.                 reduce the number o f
Reform Supported.            Established                       0   Presidential Decree on  ministries inlight o f
                                 Presidential Commission's     Government Mandate.         upcoming elections
                             Recommendation submitted to                                   next year.
                             the President.                                                0  Opposition by the
                                 Presidential Decree on                                    staff o f ministries that
                             Government Mandate Issued.                                    are to be closed.
Output 2.4                      Number o f ReformInitiatives       EvaluationReport on     0  Whether Innovation
Operation o f the Innovation Supported.                        InnovationFund.             is supported I viewed
FundImproved.                   Amount o f Additional Funds                                by the management as
                             Mobilized through Donors.                                     well as staff o f

                             0  Number o f Ministries                                      implementing ministry
                             successful inimplementing                                     or agency inthe same
                             successful reforminitiatives                                  manner.
                             which improve service delivery                                0  Resistance to change
                             to the citizen consistently with                              fromwithin the
                             Innovation Fundstated                                         implementing ministry
                             objectives                                                    or agency.
Output 2.5                      Clear Job Descriptions for         Monitoring and          0  Political will to



                                                         31

         Narrative          .    ObjectivelyVerifiable        Means of Verification
                                                                      (Mow            RlsWAssumptions

I                                   Indicators ( O W                a

 Monitoring and Evaluation Ieachcivil servant defined.      IEvaluation Reports on  Iimplement an obiective
 Improved.-                 * Clear Chaino fCommand and Performance Appraisal o f    performance appraisal
                            Reporting Structures defined     each civil servant.     system inplace o f
                                Clear Performance evaluation                         existing subjective
                            criteria for individual managers                         system giving them
                            and implementation staff defined                         wide discretion.
                               A well-defined fbnctioning
                            program supportedby a
                            Monitoring and Evaluation
                            System established




                                                        32

                          ANNEX 4: DETAILEDCOSTESTIMATE



      Table 1:TotalProjectCostsby ComponentandType ofExpenditures($US)




Component 1:Core Systems                   1.900    2.950  4.975        9.825
Improvements
Component2: Enhancingthe                   1.645    5.155        0.700  7.500
Effectivenessofthe Government
Apparatus
                                           3.545    8.105  4.975 0.700 17.325
Grand Total


                     Table 2: LoanProceedsby Component(US$)




 Component 1:Core Systems
 Improvements                             1.520    2.360  3.980        7.860
 Component2: Enhancingthe
 Effectivenessofthe Government
 Apparatus                                1.316    4.124         0.700 6.140

 Grand Total                              2.836    6.484  3.980  0.700 14.000


               Table3: GovernmentContributionsby Component(US$)




  Improvements                             0.38      0.59  0.995        1.965.
  Component2: Enhancingthe
  Effectivenessofthe Government
  Apparatus                                0.329    1.031            0   1.36-

  Grand Total                              0.709    1.621  0.995     0  3.325




                                        33

                          Table4: ProjectCosts (SDR)




Component 1:Core Systems                0.956     1.484  2.502       4.942
Improvements
Component2: Enhancingthe                0.827     2.593        0.440 3.860
Effectiveness ofthe
Government Apparatus
                                        1.783     4.077  2.502 0.440 8.802
Grand Total


        Table 5: ProjectCosts Financedby GovernmentContributions(SDR)




Component 1:Core Systems                0.239     0.371  0.626       1.235
Improvements
Component2: Enhancingthe                0.207     0.648        0.000 0.855
Effectiveness ofthe
GovernmentApparatus
                                        0.446     1.019  0.626 0.000 2.091
Grand Total




                                      34

10
m


m
b

.
5




     00
     n

         ANNEX5: FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND PROJECTIONOFDISBURSEMENTS
                                                  PLAN

86.   As reportedandoutlined inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f2006 the poor quality o f
governance inYemen i s a critical issue. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
report (2004) indicated that there had been some progress recently but rated the fiduciary risk as
high. On the other hand, the draft Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC)
Accounting and Auditingreport (2003) stated that, at present, the accounting and auditing practices
in Yemen suffer from institutional weaknesses in regulation, compliance, and enforcement of
standards andrules.

87.   The CSMP project had a unique structure among other IDA'Sfinanced projects implemented
in the country as it is implemented by two separate PIUs namely: (CSMP) which is a PIU
implementing the majority o f the project's components and activities and is located inthe Ministry
o f Civil Service and Insurance, and another PIU (AFMIS) incharge o f implementing the Automated
Financial Management Information System component and related activities and i s located in the
Ministry o f Finance. Financial aspects o f the AFMIS PIU were transferred to the CSMP PIU in
January 6, 2008 due to the constant unsatisfactory FMperformanceo fthe latter. A need o f4 months
transitional period, ending April 2008, i s expected until complete phasing out o f the AFMIS
financial unit. A review o f the financial management arrangements o f the CSMP was conducted for
the proposed additional financing to assess the fiduciary risk level o f the project and to determine
whether or not IDA f h d s are beingmanaged within an acceptable risk environment. Additionally,
transitional procedures for devolving the AFMIS financial management aspects to the CSMP PIU
was agreed upon with the project team and the TTL during the project visit that was conducted in
Januaryand February2008.

88.   The FM ISR rating o f the CSMP PIU is Moderately Satisfactory. Further assessment o f the
project will be conducted upon completion o fthe full migration o fthe AFMIS financial management
aspectsto the CSMP PIU expected by April 2008.

                                    Risksand Mitigation measures

                                                                                                Risk
                                                                                             After MM
      Based on the findings o f the
      various    ESW     conducted                MMinclude:

      recently, serious weaknesses                -Hire an independent qualified private

      were     identified in the    High          audit fm.                                  Significant

      accounting     and   auditing               -Ring-fence the Project implementation

      professions inYemen.                         and finds.
                                                   - Disbursement financing that ensures
                                                  counterpart's partnership.
      Delay     in availability  o f               - MOF to timely allocate and disburse the
      counterpart finds              Significant  project budget in accordance with the      Moderate

                                                   agreed action plan o f the CPPFU o f
                                                   September 2005.
      Overall Country Risk Before                I Overall
      MM                            High                   General Risk after MM             Significant




                                                     39

                                                          Mitigating Measures (MM)                Risk
                                                                                               After MM
                                                  -  The AFMIS accountant will work

     Staffing. Due to the new                     closely with the CSMP PIU FM during

     responsibilities resulting from              the transition period. In addition, the

     migrating the AFMIS FM           High        CSMP PIU FM will assess the need o f         Significant

     aspectsto the CSMP PIU                       additional staff in the fiance department
                                                  due such new arrangements.
                                                  --Close supervision by IDA FMS.
                                                                                              I
     Loss o f AFMIS supporting                      A committee comprised of the CSMP

     documents as a result o f                    FM, procurement specialist as well as the

     devolving FM aspects to the      High        external auditor is agreed to be formed to   Moderate

     CSMP PIU                                     officially receive the AFMIS supporting
                                                  documents from the current management,
                                                  CSMP PIU to assume full responsibility
     Unclear, and possibly diluted,               for   AFMIS       financial  management.
     responsibility over the AFMIS    Significant Separate reporting and Bank accounts         Moderate
     project.                                     will be maintained during the transition
                                                  period for AFMIS and CSMP.
     Lack o f timely reliable reports             Both the CSMP and the AFMIS PIUs
     for the Project.                             maintain    acceptable    accounting   and

                                      Significant reporting systems. The current CSMP
                                                  PIU FM will be responsible for the           Moderate

                                                  issuance and timely submission           o f
                                                  acceptable reports to IDA.
     Lack o ftimely audit opinions                - Both AFMIS and the CSMP have the
                                                  same external auditor. The current CSMP
                                                  PIU FM manager i s responsible to
                                                  provide the audit reports for the project in
                                      Significant a timely manner. The AFMIS accounting        Moderate
                                                  incharge will continue providing support
                                                  during the transition period to ensure
                                                  audit requirements are fulfilled and no
                                                  submission delays are encountered.
     Overall Control Risk before      Significant Overall Control Riskbefore MM                Moderate
     MM


I.PlanninaandFinancialMonitorinaReports

89.  The PlU has timely submitted the Q1, 42 and 43 2007 FMRs with acceptable quality.
Quarterly disbursement plans are prepared by the project Finance Manager and reflected in the
FMR. The project also prepares monthly commitment tracking sheets, showing the project's
planned commitments.         However, monthly reconciliation between IDA records and the project
records are not regularly maintained and some differences were noted. As per the Finance Manager,
reconciliation i s currently underway and by mid March 2008 will be finalized. Moreover, the
project has prepared a detailed plan for 2008 expenditure setting out planned disbursements by
category and department. Full coordination between the procurement and finance was noted in the
preparation o f the quarterly reports as the procurement plani s used as the basis for the disbursement
planprepared bythe finance manager.




                                                    40

2. Staffing and Internal Controls

90.   The project finance department is comprised o f the finance manager, accountant, procurement
manager, warehouse in charge and a cash custodian. The project accountant i s responsible for
recording the transactions into the accounting system while the finance manager reviews and posts
the transactions. In addition, the project accountant prepares the transactions voucher and checks
that afterwards are approved by the finance manager to ensure proper segregation o f duties. Monthly
bank reconciliations are preparedby the project accountant, reviewed by the finance manager and
properly filed. The PIU i s maintaining a comprehensive Financial Manual that describes the
accounting and control cycle o f the project. However and while reviewing the FM manual o f the
project, it was noted that further update i s needed to reflect treatment o f fixed assets, preparation and
submission o f FMRs, commitment tracking sheets as well as the monthly reconciliation between the
IDA records and the project ones. The project maintains fixed assets registry where all assets
purchased under the project are properly recorded. In addition to that, annual physical count takes
placebythe project and the ministry.A committee comprising the control and inspection manager o f
the ministry, procurement manager o f the project, procurement incharge o f the ministry, the project
finance manager and the project warehouse custodian. Project supporting documents since inception
are properly maintainedand filed at the finance department.

3. PIUAccounting and Information Svstem

91.   The following points were noted duringthe supervision o fthe PIUaccounting and information
system: (i) PIUis using DELLas its Financial Accounting System and follows accounting cash
            The
basis and (ii)The project is not encountering issues with the system as both the accountant and the
finance manager are familiar with operating the system and generating reports.

4. Disbursement ManagemenUFlow of Funds

92.   The supplemental financing will flow primarily through the currently established Designated
Account "B" (DA), managed by CSMP (advances not to exceed US$ 500,000) and a local currency
account for government local contribution. Both accounts are held at the Central Bank o f Yemen.
There are no compliance issues or problems to note with regard to use o f the DA on the ongoing
IDA financing. Reimbursement applications from DA are requested on a monthly basis and the
GOY contribution is provided on a timelymanner. Payments from the DAmust be authorized bythe
Project Director and Finance Manager while DA reimbursements and direct disbursements must be
authorized bythe Minister o f Civil Service, project director and finance manager. As for government
contributions, payments are made by checks signed by the project FMand director in addition to the
minister. The same summary report (SOE) thresholds inuse will bemaintained for the supplemental
IDA financing (expenditures on goods contracts costingless thanUS$lOO,OOO; consultancy services
(firms) contracts costing less than US$l00,000; individual consultants contracts costing less than
US$50,000; innovations costing less thanUS$40,000; and for all training and incremental operating
costs. For all other expenditures and for all direct payments, records are required. There are no
disbursement conditions on this additional IDA financing and no provision for retroactive financing.
A four-month graceperiod following the closing date will be embeddedinthe disbursement letter.




                                                   41

93.   The project had timely submitted anunqualified audit report for the year 2006 byDeloitte who
are carrying out the 2007 year-end audit as well as the quarterly FMRreviews.

6. FM transitionalproceduresfor devolving theAFMIS fiduciarv to the CSMPPIU

a) A meeting with the CSMP team was held January 8, 2008 to agree on the next steps for swifily
devolving the fiduciary work o f the AFMIS project to the CSMP PMU. The meeting was attended
by the CSMP finance manager, procurement officer then a brief meeting on the agreed results was
heldwith the CSMP director. As a result the following points were agreed pendingthe clearance o f
the project TTL: 1- The current financial specialist of AFMIS will remain until the end o f March
2008 to handover all the AFMIS related activities and assist the CSMP finance manager with the
2007 external audit o fthe AFMIS component.

b) A committee encompasses the CSMP finance manager, procurement specialist as well as the
external auditor o f the project will be formed to officially receive the AFMIS supporting
documentations and accounting records from the current management.

c) Location o f the AFMIS accounting system and documents will move to the CSMP PMU.
Nevertheless, the CSMP finance manager will maintain the AFMIS accounting records and
transactions separate from the CSMP records and in this regard the CSMP finance manager will
conduct the following tasks:
          a) Issue 2 separateFMRs on quarterlybasis (AFMIS and CSMP).
          b) Prepare 2 monthly client connection reconciliations (AFMIS and CSMP).
          c) Prepare 2 monthly commitment tracking sheets (AFMIS andCSMP).

d) For the yearendaudit, the CSMP will be responsible for timely submission o f the AFMIS and the
CSMP audit reports to IDA.

e) AFMIS SA will remain separate from the CSMP SA and the CSMP finance manager will sign on
all AFMIS checkdpayments with the signature o fthe AFMIS coordinator.

94.   Additional meeting was held with the AFMIS coordinator, AFMIS accounting in charge and
the CSMP finance manager on February9, 2008 where all the above procedures were discussed and
agreed except for point number five subject to the discussion with the CSMP project director. The
meetingalso covered the AFMIS contracts that are still under implementationwhich are as follows:

         Ben Thabet Contract (from local contribution) YR2K
         Extension o f the AFMIS contract to December 2008
     0   Possible extension o fthe KPMG contract to December 2008




                                                 42

U7-
C



-
P

C


                         ANNEX6: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS PLAN        AND




1. General

95.    A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Yemen carried out in2000 concluded
that the procurement legislation, Law No. 3 o f 1997 and corresponding Regulations introduced by
Decree No. 234 o f 1997, although a significant improvement over previous legislation was not yet
up to acceptable international standards.

96.    As a transition strategy until a revised procurement law is enacted, to address the gaps inthe
legal framework and to clarify areas which seem to conflict with donors' guidelines, the CPAR
recommended the development o f a set o f comprehensive National Procurement Manual (NPM) to
support capacity building o f the GOY'Sprocurement management at all levels together with a
national Standard BidDocuments (SBDs) for goods, works and services.

97.    The completed country procurement "tool kits" comprised o f the NPM and SBDs were
endorsed by the Cabinet in April 2006, and preparation and capacity building efforts led by the
Technical Committee o f the High Tender Board have been underway since then for broad
dissemination o f these country procurement documents inseven pilot spending ministries.

98.    In addition, as a core policy objective of the National Reform Agenda adopted by the
Government in early 2006, a new reform-oriented public procurement law reflecting international
best practice has been prepared with support from Development Partners (Bank, USAID and Dutch)
and ratified by Parliament on July 24, 2007. Drafting o f the procurement Bylaws or Executive
Regulations i s near completion and a workshop with key stakeholders scheduled for March2008 and
approval in o f the final documents by Cabinet expected by April 2008. Enforcement o f the Bylaws
would clearly be the responsibility o f the restructured handlinggovernment contracts at national and
local levels.

99.    Use o f Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the Yemen Civil Service Modernization Project
Additional Financing would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004, revised October 1, 2006
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants byWorld Bank Borrowers" dated May2004
revised October 1, 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items
under different expenditure categories are described in the sections below. For each contract to be
financed by the Additional Financing, different procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame agreed between the Borrower
andthe Bankare recordedinthe agreedProcurement Plandated February 15,2008.

100. Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be issued in the UNDB and
dgMarket for major consulting assignments, and for any International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
for goods, although no ICB i s anticipated. The GPNwould be issued not less than eight weeks prior
to the publication o f the first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN), and would be updated annually for
all outstanding ICB for goods and all large consulting contracts. It would also be published in the



                                                   45

national press or official gazette for purposes o f informing potential bidders for contracts under
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) andto obtain expressions o f interest from national consultants.

101, Procurement o f Goods: Goods estimated to cost about US$3 million inthe aggregate would be
procured under the proposed Additional Financing and would include: IT equipment, office
equipment and furniture, as well as generators and air conditioning equipment for Regional
Information Centers. Procurement o f goods will be implemented using the Bank's SBD for goods
for all ICB and using bidding documents acceptable to the Bank for N C B for the most part. For
procurement o f readily available i.e. off-the-shelf goods with contract values o f less than
US$50,000, Shopping Procedures requiring solicitation o f a minimum o f three quotations will be
used.

102. The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under the above paragraph
shall be those set forth in Law No. 23 for 2007 concerning Government Tenders, Auctions and
Stores, andits Regulations, with the: subject to the following additional procedures:
        (i) aRecipient-ownedenterpriseintheRepublicofYemenshallbeeligibletobidonlyif
        it can establish that it is legally and financially autonomous, operates under commercial law,
        andis not a dependent agency o fthe Recipient;

        (ii) bidding(orpre-qualification,ifrequired)shallnotberestrictedtoanyparticularclass
        o f contractors or suppliers, and non-registered contractors and suppliers shall also be eligible
        to participate;

        (iii)   tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in two (2) local
        newspapers o fwide circulation;

        (iv)    prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum o f thirty (30) days for the
        preparation and submission o f bids, such thirty (30) days to begin with the availability o f the
        biddingdocuments or the advertisement, whichever is later;

        (v)     untilnational standardbiddingdocuments acceptable to the Association are available,
        bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used, and may be prepared in
        Arabic;

        (vi)    registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications; qualification criteria
        (incasepre-qualification was not carried out) and the methodofevaluatingthe qualification
        o f each bidder shall be stated inthe biddingdocuments, and before contract award the bidder
        havingsubmitted the lowest evaluated responsive bidshall be subject to post-qualification;

        (vii)    a foreign bidder shall not be requiredto register or to appoint an agent as a condition
        for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall
        be given reasonable opportunity to register, without let or hindrance; the registrationprocess
        shall not be applicable to sub-contractors;

        (viii) all bids shall be submittedinsealed envelopes and may be submitted, at the bidder's
        option, inpersonor by courier service;




                                                     46

       (ix)     all bids shall be opened at the same time in a public bid opening which bidders shall
       be allowed to attend and which shall follow immediately after the deadline for submission o f
       bids;

       (x)      evaluation o fbids shall be carried out instrict adherence to the criteria declared inthe
       biddingdocuments andcontracts shallbe awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder,
       without resorting to the rejection o f bids above or below a certain percentage o f the pre-bid
       estimate (bidprice bracketing);

       (xi)     no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify its bid after the bid closing date
       shall have elapsed and bids submitted after the deadline for submission o f bids shall be
       returnedto the bidder unopened;

       (xii)    post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other bidder shall not be permitted;

       (xiii) under exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the expiration o f
       bid validity, request all bidders inwriting to extendthe validity o f their bids, inwhich case
       bidders shall not be requested nor permitted to amend the price or any other condition o f
       their bids; a bidder shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension without forfeiting
       its bid security, but any bidder granting such extension shall be required to provide a
       corresponding extension o fits bidsecurity;

       (xiv)    price adjustment provisions may be included incontracts for works with a duration o f
       more than eighteen months;

       (xv)     rejection o f all bids isjustifiedwhen there i s lack o f effective competition, or bids are
       not substantially responsive, however, lack o f competition shall not be determined solely on
       the basis o fthe number o fbidders; and

       (xvi) each contract financed from the proceeds o f the Grant shall provide that the
       contractor or supplier shall permit the Association, at its request, to inspect their accounts
       and records relating to the performance o f the contract and to have such accounts andrecords
       audited by auditors appointed bythe Association.

103. Selection o f Consultants: Consulting services estimated to cost nearly US$11 million under
the proposed Additional Financing to be provided consulting firms and individuals would include:
Technical assistancefor Phase I1o f Core Systems, new and implementation support for Government
Reengineering studies, studies and operational support for the Civil Service Fund, as well as
capacity building and training. The selection o f international and local consulting firms will be on
the basis o f the standard Request for Proposals (RFP) and appropriate contract forms. Shortlist o f
consultants for services estimated less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed
entirely o f national consultants although foreign firms may express interest for consideration in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultants Guidelines.

104. The selection of consultant firms would follow Quality-Cost-Based-Selection (QCBS) except
for small value contracts (costing less than US$lOO,OOO) which may be procured using the selection
based on Consultant's Qualification (CQ), and Least-Cost Selection (LCS) methods. Single Source
Selection (SSS) procedures may be used on an exceptional basis, with prior agreement o f IDA, for


                                                   47

hiring services that meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.10 o f the Consultants' Guidelines, for
assignments when only one firm is qualified or has experience o f exceptional worth. Selection o f
individual consultants would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for the selection o f Individual
Consultants (IC).




      lGoods      IAbove US$lOO,OOO plus the first three contracts.                              I
       Services    Above US$50,000 for individual consultants and US$lOO,OOO for firms, TORS,EOI,
                   short-list, and all single source selection.




2. Assessment of theApencv's Capacitv toImdement Procurement

105. Procurement activities under the proposed Additional Financing will be limited to only the
existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOCSAI, since the PIU functions have been
completely transferred to the CSMP PIU. The PIU has a reasonable record o f handling technical,
fiduciary,  and contract management responsibilities. All procurement related activities under the
ongoing project were handledby the Procurement team which was composed o f two procurement
specialists until one departed inNovember 2007.

106. For the proposed Additional Financing, in view o f the capacity shortfall which has raised the
procurement risk, the Government has agreed that another replacement full time Procurement
Specialist with experience in procurement o f consultant services in particular, and selected
competitively from the local market will be recruited on a priority basis.

107. Nonetheless, the appraisal has noted: (i)         MOCSAI has taken into account in the design and
biddingdocuments the lessons learned inthe original project, which consist o f similar type and size
o f contracts; and (ii)the PIUprocurement experience is satisfactory and within the overall status o f
country procurement practice and accompanied risks in contract management. While the
procurement risk is primarily due to the recent capacity shortfall, and therefore the risk mitigation
measures mentioned above if implemented in a timely manner could potentially reduce the risk
profile, the overall project risk for procurement at appraisal i s still considered high.

3. Procurement Plan

108. A Procurement Plan was prepared by the Borrower detailing all procurement envisaged for a
two-year period under the proposed Additional Financing. The Procurement Planhas beenfinalized
and agreed at Negotiations, and will be available inthe CSMP database and publicly disclosed inthe
Bank's external website. It would be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as
requiredto reflect the actual implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity prior
to submission to IDA for review andno objection.




                                                        48

4. Freauencv of Procurement SuDewision

109. The PW's capacity to implement TA and goods contracts has improved in the last few years
o f the Original Project. Implementation remains a challenge and will require at least twice yearly
supervision from the IDA team. Supervision missions from headquarters and the country office
would review project implementation activities including procurement and disbursement, and the
relevant issues as highlighted inthe context o f the supervision review o f the project. Staff from the
country office would continue to providejust intime support to the PW when needed.

5. Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

110. Withdrawals from the credit account may be made on the basis o f Statements o f Expenses for
the following expenditures:
      0   Contracts for goods andequipment costing less thanUS$200,000;

          Contracts for consulting firms costing less thanUS$lOO,OOO;
     I0


      0   Contracts for individual consultants costing less thanUS$50,000; and

          PIUOperatingexpenses.




                                                  49

I  I




v,
I-
--! x
N

--

i!
m    Ym

81  b

     I
         Y     c
         0     C




         Fc;  5
              4
              ?
         c    c

  T
       B$
       F.
       N




       2
       Q
       0

       e
       e

       m
       0
       z
       Q
       e
       ,--

       2
       E
       46

      h
    $ g
      3           d
                  3

       1           oc
                   4
       4,--
       0       --4tc - -
      -    ,--
     3     m
     4 22            2a 2a

            Eb       ;I
                          -t-
            2


m
!?          m
            m
            8




              -r

cc




-c
c

                            ANNEX7: IMPLEMENTATION         PLAN

111. The additional financing will be consolidated within the Ministry o f Civil Service
and Insurance (MOCSAI)          and implemented by the existing CSMP Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with some modification to be introduced to the staffing and
project implementation oversight function.       The AFMIS Coordinator will continue
managing AFMIS related activities within Ministry o f Finance. The roll out o f the
system to additional ministries will be coordinated with other ministries.

112. PIU Organization. Under the existing additional financing, the two project PIUs
will be consolidated into one under the Ministry o f Civil Service. This agency is headed
by an experienced Project General Manager. It is supported by a core staff consisting o f
a technical secretariat composed o f individuals responsible for managing the various
work streams supported by the project (Reengineering, Core Systems, Civil Service Fund
andAFMIS). The PIUis also composed o f an administrative and financial unitmade up
o f a Project Officer, a Financial Manager, and two Procurement Specialists. The team
will be strengthened bythe byhiring a Financial Officer, entrusted with assisting with the
consolidation o f the two PIUs, a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer entrusted with
gathering information on meetingproject targets and an international consultant hired as
Senior Project Manager to assist the Project General Manager o f CSMP inmanaging day
to day activities o f the project, build capacity within the team, and provide strategic
direction andguidance to the reform effort.

113. Training Coordinator. The Training Component has been completed and no further
training activities would be undertaken under The additional financing. Since capacity
building remains a major issue in the Yemeni context, training activities would be
mainstreamed into the other components of the project. However, the training coordinator
function will be retained inthe PIU and any further training activities, including funding
for the Training Coordinator position will be financed by contributions from donors. In
the context o f the restructuring o f the Civil Service Ministry, Human Resource
Development andtraining functions will be taken over by the Ministry.

114. Re-staffing the position o f Procurement Specialist: Under the original project,
staffing plans for the PIU included two Procurement Specialists, working side by side to
ensure appropriate procurement and contract management. InNovember 2007 one o f the
positions was vacated but, in light o f the short implementation timeframe, this position
will be retained and a Procurement Specialist will be recruited locally to strengthen the
procurement capacity within the PIU. The tasks to be accomplished inprocurement are
massive. Responsibilities under this team would be divided, with one specialist focusing
on procurement management, while the other person focuses on contract management.

AdditionalStaff

115. During appraisal, five new positions were identified to support implementation o f
the additional financing. The five positions are a Sr. Project Manager, a Financial Officer,
an Innovation Fund Program Coordinator, a second Reengineering point person and a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.

116. Sr. Project Manager: This position would likely be staffed by an international
consultant, with a long experience in large scale project management in developing

                                             54

countries. Hisher primary responsibilities would include capacity building within the
PIU, introduction o fbest management practices for planningand execution o fprojects in
a timely manner to achieve program design objectives. This would insure that projects
are prepared to include project charter, project design documents and project
implementationplans before execution begins. He would also focus on ensuring that the
reengineering program management framework i s followed to ensure capacity building
and change management are integral part o f process re-design to achieve reengineering
objectives.

117. M&E Officer: The M&E Specialist would be responsible for tracking achievements
under the Original Project and the additional financing. The recruited Officer should have
the capacity to update the performance indicators and in measuring outcomes vis-&vis
project beneficiaries.   Additionally, the M&E Officer would ensure that appropriate
mechanisms for oversight and quality control o f contract deliverables are inplace and to
ensure that these tasks are performed according to best practices and in a timely manner.
This has beena major cause o f delays andinefficiencies inthe reengineering program.

118. Financial Officer: Inthe period immediately following the mergingo fthe two PIUs
a Financial Officer will be retained in order to ensure orderly and smooth transfer o f
financial management responsibility to the CSMP PIU from the AFMIS PIUbefore it i s
closed. Thereafter the Financial Officer will continue to assist the Financial Manager in
dealing with financial transactions related to AFMIS component.

ImplementationArranpementsfor the ReengineerinpComponent

119. Based on the experience in Phase 1 it was determined that additional measures
were requiredto further strengthen Agency ownership o f the restructuring effort in order
to ensure the success o f the reengineering effort. Accordingly, each Agency included in
phase 2 o f reengineering and each subsequent phase will be required to sign a
MOUPerformance Agreement which would a) link success to increased resource
allocation in support o f the restructuring; and, b) incase o f failure to live up the terms o f
the MOUPerformance Agreement. It would prevent the agency from requesting any new
allocation, either interms o fhumanor financial resources, from the budget.

120. With regards to Biometric System, weekly reports will be producedto monitor on a
regular basis the progress in registration o f public employees across all sectors (Civil
Service, Military,Security Services, andJudiciary) and Pensioners.




                                              55

        0
        Q
     -E a
        u)
        S
        W
        c
        m
z
E2EE
Y
2E
CI


rc
0




      W
     ki  eb       0
               r0c8q 3$

a




     -4

3
9    E
    4




                 *
                 *
                 h
                 ..
                 8
                 c.'
                 0
                 8




          rcl
          0


m  m    m




P

El

a    a    a

.




m

m m   m l

m m



0

   ANNEX 11:COUNTRYAT A GLANCE

Yemen: Civil Service Modernization Project

                     MEamt
                     lHorth   hrn-
                      Am=   I-

                       311    ?.-
                      2461       550
                       771    $262


                        1.8      1.B
                        3.5      2.3

                                  -
                         mI



                         m       30
                                 54        1
                         43      75
                         15       -
                         5w      75
                         T3      61
                        103      102
                        llw      10%
                         I 46


                       2005
                       187



                       28.3
                        4.2
                        0.3
                       ?a0
                        2 6
                       2225
                       45.4

                       aDoc

                        3.3
                        0.2




                    71

          IU


           L




      3




72

                 REPUBLIC OF                                                                          46E                                            48E                                 50E                            52E                                         54E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                          YEMEN                                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20N
                                                                                 20N

                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                               REP. OF                                                   S A U D I             A R A B I A
                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                       YEMEN
                         RIVERS

                         MAIN ROADS

                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O M A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18N
                42E          To Abha                  44E

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sanaw
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sanaw                                          To Thamarit
                                                                                                                                                                                                             A L -
                                                                                                                                                      H A D R A M O U T                                  M A H RRA H
                                                                                                                                                                                                         M A H AT               Habarut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Habarut
                                                                                                                                                                                  ThamudThamud
                                       S A A D A H
                                                    Saadah
                                                    Saadah

                                                                               A L - J O W F                                                                  WadiMakhun                                            M a h r a t                             To Mirbat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M t n s .

                                                                                                                                                  ZamakhZamakh                                                                               Damqawt
                        Maydi                        HuthHuth
                                                     -                                                                                                                                                        Wadi Al Jiz
                                                                              Al Hazm
                                                                              Al Hazm
                                                                                                                             ab'atayn         Dese
                                                                                                                                                eserrt                                                  Mar'ayt
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mar'ayt                  Al Ghaydah
            16N              HAJJAHHAJJAH AMRAN
                                          AMRAN                     Wadi                                                                                                            Wadi
                                                                        Jawf                                                                                                                                                                                                                16N
                                                                                                                                                                           Al Ghuraf
                                                                                                                                                                           Al Ghuraf
                  Al Luhayyah        HajjahHajjah                                                                           Sab'ata                                                     Hadramout                             Nishtun

                                                       Amran
                                                       Amran                                                       as
                                                                                 M A R I B           Ramlat    lat                                               Hawra
                                                                                                                                                                 Hawra

                        Salif   Al Mahwit
                                Al Mahwit                       SANAASANAA               MaribMarib                      ShabwahShabwah
                 AL-                                                                                                                                                                          uw tt                   Qishn

            MAHWIT                                                                                               S H A B WA                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                                      o
             Red                                      SANA'ASANA'A
                                                                                                                                                                              a   m                           Sayhut

                  Al Hodeidah                                                                                                                                              r
                                         Dhamar                                                      NuqubNuqub
                       HODEIDAH  DAHDAH               DHAMAR
                                                      DHAMAR                               HaribHarib                                                                  a d
                                                                      (3199 m)
                                                                      (3199 m)                                 NisabNisab   Ataq
                                                                                                                            Ataq                                                     Shihr
                 Sea                    RAIMHRAIMH                                                                                                                H
                                                             Dhamar
                                                             Dhamar           Rida
                                                                              Rida                                                                                            Al Mukalla

                                         Wadi    Zabid                  A L - B E I D A
            14N                                       I B B           AL-AL-                Al Beida
                                                                                            Al Beida                                    Al Huwaymi
                                                                                                                                        Al Huwaymi                                                                                                                                          14N
                                                     IbbIbb         DHALE'EDHALE'E
                                                             (3227 m)
                                                             (3227 m)   Al Dhale'e
                                                                        Al Dhale'e                                                                       Bir Ali

                                                 Taiz
                                                  aiz                            Wadi          A B YA N

                             Mocha         TA I Z
                                           TA                                        Bana                                  Ahwar
                                                                                               Shaqra
               ERITREA                                       At Turbah
                                                             At urbah
                                                                    LahejLahej            Zinjibar                                                                  Gulf              of             Aden
                                       At           L A H E J
                                   Turbah                           ADENAden                                                                                                                                                                    Qalansiyah           Qadub

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Socotra

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'Abd al Kuri
OCTOBER             DJIBOUTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Samha
                                                                                                      0           50         100           150 Kilometers                                                                                                 Darsa                                 IBRD
            12N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The Brothers                                12N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33513
       2005                                                                                           0                    50                100 Miles

              42E                                   44E                                              46E                                             48E                                      50E                          52E                                             54E

