Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19387
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3721-IND)
June 30, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00.                    Rp 2,105 in SAR (February 14, 1994)
US$1.00             =      Rp 2,400 (July 1994 to July 1997)
US$1.00             =      Rp. 5,000 (July 1997 to July 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APINDO       -      Indonesian Employers' Association
BAPPENAS   -        National Development Planning Board
CAS           -     Country Assistance Strategy
CGTUs        -      Company Group Training Units
CPIU         -      Central Project Implementation Unit
GOI          -      Government of Indonesia
I BRD         -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
ITS          -      Industry Training Scheme
KADIN        -      Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
KPKN         -      State Treasurer
LLMIS        -      Local Labor Market Information Systems
MOM          -      Ministry of Manpower
MTM          -      Medium Term Models
OECD         -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIMPRO       -      Project Director
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PMP          -      Young Professional Entrepreneur Development Program
PSC          -      Project Steering Committee
PTF          -      Provincial Training Fund
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDP          -      Skills Development Project
SETAS        -      Small Enterprise Training and Advisory Scheme
SOP          -      Standard Operating Procedures
SPABP        -      Fund channelling mechanism from national to provincial level
STM          -      Short Term Models
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
Vice President          Jean-Michel Severino
Sector Director          Alan Ruby
Country Director         Mark Baird
Task Manager             Brigitte Duces



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............................................................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................                                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .............................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................................7
D. Project Sustainability .............................................................9
E. Bank Performance .............................................................10
F. Borrower Performance ............................................................1  I
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................................ 11
H. Future Operations ............................................................ 12
I. Lessons Learned ............................................................                                               13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ........................................................                                     15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................................................                                 16
Table 3:  Project Timetable ........................................................                                          18
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ................................. 18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................................                   19
Table 6a: Quantitative Indicators for the Operation of the Provincial Component ................. 2 1
Table 6b: Quantitative Indicators for the Operation of the Ministry of
Manpower Component ........................................................                                 22
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project ........................................................                            23
Table 8a: Project Costs ........................................................                                             24
Table 8b: Project Financing ........................................................                                         25
Table 9:  Status of legal Covenants ........................................................                                 26
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................... 27
Table I1: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................                              27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                                  28
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................................ 29
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE ............................................................                                  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






-1i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3721-IND
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Skills Development Project in
Indonesia, for which Loan No. 3721-IND in the amount of US$27.70 million was approved on March
25, 1994, and made effective on June 13, 1994. Of the original amount, US$9,714,000 million was
cancelled (US$4,914,000 on July 23, 1997 and $4,800,000 on August 26, 1998 respectively).
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1998 after a one year extension. Of the original loan
amount, US$15.42 million was disbursed, and a further US$2.56 million will be cancelled. The last
disbursement took place on May 5, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Eamonn Darcy (Consultant) for Brigitte Duces, Task Manager,
Education Sector, East Asia and Pacific Region (EAP) and reviewed by Alan Ruby, Benjamin Fisher
and Oscar de Bruyn Kops. The peer reviewer was John Middleton.
This report is based on material in the project file and ICR mission that was conducted in
Indonesia during March 14 to 26, 1999. The Borrower prepared a contribution to the ICR that is
attached as Annex 2. The Borrower also commented on the Bank's draft ICR.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3721-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Introduction
(i)    The Skills Development Project (SDP) was the thirtieth project in the education and training
sector to be financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in the
Republic of Indonesia. Nineteen of these were implemented through the Ministry of Education and
Culture, two through the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and nine through other ministries. This
demonstration project became effective on June 13, 1994 and with a one year extension, was closed
on December 31, 1998. The project implementation period was extended (a) to provide more time for
effective operation (which was delayed for almost two years out of a planned three) to demonstrate the
potential usefulness of the private sector, demand-led training fund approach used in the project; and
(b) to allow achievement of project objectives for a reduced number of activities namely: operation of
the Provincial Training Funds; and in MOM, a second phase of the development of the Local Labor
Market Information System, continuation of staff training, and evaluation of the project.
B.    Project Objectives
(ii)   The project's objectives were consistent with: (a) the Borrower's strategy for skills
development; and (b) the Bank's strategy for human resources development in Indonesia as articulated
in the country assistance. They are still relevant for the country's overall development. Specifically,
the project's objectives were to: (a) develop and implement innovative industrial skills training
schemes within private enterprises in three provinces (West Java, East Java and North Sumatra) for
possible replication in other parts of the country in the future, as part of an overall training program to
promote productivity and efficiency of the economy; (b) support a special training program for
unemployed university graduates (PMP) in five provinces (the three mentioned above plus South
Sulawesi and Bali); and (c) strengthen policy making, research, planning, and management
capabilities of the Ministry of Manpower.
(iii)   The key agreements reached to promote the achievement of project objectives included: (a)
the provincial training fund activities would be carried out in accordance with operating procedures
and eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank; (b) a guaranteed loan repayment scheme would be
established using government funds for eligible people who completed the training program for
unemployed university graduates; and (c) evaluation studies would be carried out not later than
December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996.
C.    Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)   The total project cost for the SDP was to be US$39.75 million of which the IBRD loan was to
finance US$27.70 million and private companies and the Government of Indonesia were to finance
US$12.00 million equivalent. Of the original loan amount, US$9,714,000 million was cancelled



- 111 -
(US$4,914,000 on July 23, 1998 and US$4,800,000 on August 26, 1998 respectively). The amount
disbursed from the Loan was, after conversion, US$15.42 million. The last disbursement was on May
5, 1999. It is anticipated that a further US$2,563,616.90 will be cancelled. A key element of the-
design of the project was the contribution by companies to the cost of training on an upward scale of
20%, 40% and 70% per year of participation in the project. In practice, up to the 40% level was
widely achieved but there was resistance to the 70% level that may have been partly caused by the
economic downturn, though there was a high level of achievement of this level in East Java province.
There was also resistance to the contribution by small companies as they normally qualify for full
subsidisation of training costs under government programs. The payments were made in cash or in-
kind in the three provinces with the proportion differing between them.
(v)    Project design and preparation. The project design and preparation teams recognised the
difficulty of implementing a decentralised project in three provinces where the administrative
procedures involved were new to the central and provincial government officials, and to the private
sector staff involved. For this reason, money from a previous project (Loan 2705-IND) was used to
finance teams in the three provinces to prepare their subcomponents. However, in hindsight, the
administrative procedures that were prepared were not comprehensive or detailed enough to facilitate
implementation. A practicable set of standard operating procedures was only used during the last
eighteen months of the four year project.
(vi)   Project financing issues. The mechanisms and detailed procedures for the transfer of loan
funds from the national to the provincial level (SPABP), release of provincial government funds, and
payments for services by the Provincial Government project manager (PIMPRO) were prepared by the
Borrower. Again, as these were new to the numerous central and provincial level officials involved
they had to be further detailed during project implementation to be effective. These administrative
deficiencies led to serious problems that impeded the implementation of the Provincial Component
during the first two years after the project became effective because there were delays of eight to ten
months in the provision of project funds to the three provinces. These problems were overcome during
the last two years of the project. These start-up problems caused temporary but not lasting damage to
the implementation of the project. Disbursements were low and training and other project activities
had to delayed during this stage of the project.
(vii)  A number of unacceptable practices were mentioned to the ICR mission; this information was
provided verbally without written documentation or proof. In one province, training providers were
asked to refund about 3% of the fees paid to them from the Loan to the PIU for services provided by
the latter. About 1% to 3% of the provincial government funds provided to the project were repaid to
them for services provided to the project in the three provinces. It was also stated that for the same
reasons about 1% of the loan funds provided through the Treasury Office (KPKN) in the three
provinces were repaid (although this was not independently verified with KPKN).
(viii) Award of training contracts. There were also serious bureaucratic problems in the Provincial
Govermments that caused delays in the payment of training providers that were only overcome during
the third year of the project following intervention from the Bank. The Bank found that a small
number of private training providers were winning a high proportion of contracts in the three project
provinces during the first three years of the project, which was satisfactorily overcome in the
extension phase due to action initiated by the Bank. One reason is that many firms would not tender
because of the delay in being paid. The major, unacceptable reason was nepotism and there were
serious examples of this in all three provinces. As a result of concern expressed by the Bank, staff



- iv -
changes were made in the three provinces. It is not possible to give an objective view of the effect of
these 'unacceptable practices' on the performance of the project as most of them were not disclosed
until the end of the project (para. x).
(ix)   Project achievements. Based on the achievement of the key and quantitative indicators (Tables
5, 6 (a) and 6 (b)), the project's outcome was satisfactory for the achievement of implementation
progress and development objectives for the last eighteen and twenty four months respectively, of
implementation. The project was rated as unsatisfactory before this. The efforts made by the
Borrower and the Bank during the first two years to overcome administrative obstacles and the
adoption of standard operating procedures enabled the project to perform satisfactorily for about the
final two years. The improved performance was assisted by the restructuring of the project in August
1997. Satisfactory, qualitative outcomes about the beneficial effects of private sector training and its
quality were obtained from the evaluation studies but no relevant quantitative conclusions could be
drawn from them because the path analysis analytical technique used expressed all conclusions as
relationships between dependent and independent variables. The design of the project was shown to be
practicable: decentralised, private sector dominated training funds subsidised training needs analysis
and training of employees. The importance and value of training in firms was promoted.
(x)    During the first two years there were many administrative issues that impeded implementation
of the provincial component and the Bank's supervision efforts were focused on the resolution of
these. Because of this, it was not until 1996 that the conflict of interest in the award of training
contracts and irregularities in the contracting process were detected by the Bank and subsequently
acted on by the Borrower. While the Bank asked the Borrower to take corrective action soon after
discovering the conflict of interest, the Bank could have put more pressure on to ensure that the
necessary action was taken quickly enough by the Borrower. Project financing problems were not
detected earlier because the provincial PIUs only began to talk about them during the final supervision
mission in August 1998 and much more during the ICR mission in March 1999. Considering all of
the issues that arose and given that one aim of this pilot project was to learn lessons from the
experience of different approaches, overall Bank performance in project supervision was mainly
satisfactory, despite some weaknesses, for this innovative project.
(xi)   The national level Central PIU (CPIU) and the Project Steering Committee (PSC) were set up
to facilitate overall implementation and to take responsibility for policycoordination. The CPIU and
the PSC should have played a more active role in the facilitation and monitoring of project
implementation. For example, a more timely development of the standard operating procedures (SOP)
would have given provincial authorities a firm administrative framework within which to work and
would have reduced the scope for conflict of interest in the award of training contracts (para. viii).
Borrower performance improved over time and was satisfactory in the second half of the
implementation period. It was weak during the first half of implementation and in hindsight, also
during preparation.
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
(xii)  It is encouraging that despite resistance from some employers, many enterprises were willing
to join substantially with the Government in managing and investing in the training of their workers,
despite poor program administration by the Government in the first half of this project. The medium
term implications for public training policy that the project model and incentives work are substantial.
Valuable experience has been gained in the implementation of decentralised private sector training in
three provinces.



(xiii) It seems that there was a large amount of money circulating in the project that was handled
informally (written accounts were not kept) such as private sector contributions and the various
refunds. The amount of money is unknown as (a) proper financial control was not kept over most of
it, and (b) it has not been included in the audits. Some of the reasons for these informnal practices were
valid, but others were not. The valid practices should have been formalised by modifying the
operating procedures to include them, which was not done. There was financial control of the Loan
and Government funds but these measures would have ensured financial control of the private sector
funds.
(xiv)  Funds are being provided to sustain the Staff Training and Development, and Local Labor
Market Information System activities in MOM. The Government maintains a high commitment to
education and training and to the system to support in-service training in small and medium
enterprises. The Ministry has stated that it wishes to provide funds to sustain the SDP program in a
modified form in the three provinces from June 1999 and to replicate the prograrn in other provinces
in the following year. In the three provinces, employer organizations and provincial government
support a continuation of the project programs in various modified forms. In the light of the
budgetary uncertainty and the very constrained economic environment in Indonesia at present, the
sustainability of the Provincial Component has to be rated as uncertain in the short-term though it
seems that it may be supported when the economy improves.
(xv)  In the light of the very constrained economic environment currently in Indonesia the Borrower
and Bank have agreed priority for human resource development support would be given to maintaining
enrollments for basic education. When the Indonesian economy has improved, future potential
investment in the training subsector would be guided by the Sector Study 'Training and the Labor
Market in Indonesia: Productivity Gains and Employment Growth' (Report No. 16990-IND) and the
lessons learned from this project.
(xvi)  There have been valuable lessons learned from this project and the main ones are:
first, after the administration difficulties were overcome the institutional arrangements and the
funding mechanisms used in the project were found to be suitable for the decentralisation of the
management and delivery of training at provincial level;
second, many private sector employers especially medium and large ones, are willing to take
responsibility for planning and organizing the training of their employees;
third, though there is some resistance especially from small firms, many enterprises accept the
concept of cost sharing and it is estimated that in the present recession many medium and large
companies would be willing to contribute an average of 40% to 50% of their costs of training. The
experience gained by MOM under the project was valuable as under a new policy initiative, the
Ministry has extended the use of variations of the cost sharing model to others of their labor market
programs together with decentralized budgeting and control to provincial level;
fourth, it took two years to get the special fund channelling mechanism (SPABP) used for transferring
Loan funds from central to provincial level to operate smoothly as it was new to MOM and these
provinces. As decentralization continues, this mechanism may have to be used more widely and
therefore, in projects where it will be used care should be taken to ensure that detailed operating
procedures are pilot tested during project preparation;
fifth, if this project is to be replicated or related structures established that delegate management
responsibility to provincial level, it would be essential that comprehensive and detailed operating
procedures would be developed and approved during project preparation. These ex ante regulations
would permit more ex post accountability for performance and use of funds, which should be carried
out. Also effective central coordination and monitoring of project preparation and implementation at
central level by the Borrower are essential;
sixth, the original time-scale of three years would have been right for this demonstration project to test
the mechanisms used in the absence of serious administrative delays. However, based on the



- vi -
experience of the contributions from the private sector, providing subsidies for three years is too short
a time to prepare enterprises to fully fund the cost of planning and delivering the training of their own
employees, about six years would be required; and
seventh, the evaluation studies were canied out at the end of implementation which allowed no
opportunity for corrective action to be taken about the analytical method used. A pilot test of the
methodology carried out earlier in the project would have highlighted the problem with the analysis
and allowed time to correct it.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3721-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. The project was designed as a three year demonstration project that built
on previous projects in the training subsector. It set out to demonstrate the benefits of
demand-driven and industry-led skills training programs through the provision of financial
incentives to private enterprises that were willing and capable of establishing such training.
The project represented a major shift from public to private sector provision of training in
Indonesia and it included a significant decentralization of funding and operational
responsibility from the national to the provincial level.
2.    The Project Objectives and Components. The objectives as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 12748-IND, were: (a) to develop and implement
innovative industrial skills training schemes within private enterprises in three provinces
(West Java, East Java and North Sumatra) for possible replication in other parts of the country
in the future, as part of an overall training program to promote productivity and efficiency of
the economy; (b) to support'a special training program for unemployed university graduates in
five provinces (the three mentioned above plus South Sulawesi and Bali); and (c) to
strengthen policy making, research, planning, and management capabilities of the Ministry of
Manpower (MOM).
3.   In order to achieve the objectives, the project consisted of two components:
The Provincial Component included the establishment of a Provincial Training Fund (PTF) to
implement four subcomponents in the three participating provinces: (a) start-up new training
programs and activities in firms by establishing company group training units (CGTUs); (b)
start-up new training programs and activities in individual companies by supporting them to
employ new training managers, and provide limited staff and expenses to support employer
associations (KADIN/APINDO) to promote industry-based training, called Industry Training
Scheme (ITS); (c) support targeted training programs to train job-seekers for identified
vacancies with specified placement targets in jobs related to the training; and (d) establish
pilot programns to provide training and consultancy services to small-scale industries
(SETAS).
The Ministry of Manpower Component included four subcomponents: (a) establish programs
to train and develop young professional entrepreneurs for self employment (PMP), primarily
unemployed university graduates, in five provinces; (b) improve the local labor market
information system; (c) support a staff development program to upgrade the capacity for



-2 -
management, research, planning, and policy development; and (d) prepare a Provincial
Training Fund scheme for South Sulawesi.
4.    Cost Sharing. Cost sharing was to be a key element in the provincial component
financed through the PTF scheme. The objective was to ensure that industry would finance
in-service training after the project was completed. The proportion of costs financed from the
loan was to be 80% in year one, 60% in year two and 30% in year three for the CGTUs, in-
service training for large and medium firms, and for the training advisory services for small
firms. Employment of training managers in firms was to be supported at 50% for two years to
provide enough time to demonstrate their benefit to the companies that would then continue to
bear their full costs. Training for job-seekers and small firms was to be 100% funded, the
former being subject to placement performance. The PMP, a MOM subcomponent, was to be
100% funded, but participants were to contribute a specified amount of their own money to
help capitalise their firms.
5.    The loan financed 69.8% of total project costs and the private sector and the Borrower
provided the balance. More than half of the loan (57%) financed training programs and
training management and advisory services for companies and job-seekers under the
provincial component. Under the MOM component, 13% of the loan financed fellowships
and training. National and international consultant's services and studies were financed by
19% of the Loan while the balance of the loan financed equipment and unallocated items.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's
strategy for human resources development in Indonesia contained in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) presented to the Executive Directors in December 1993. This CAS
recognised that investing in people would continue to be a critical ingredient for development,
improving human welfare, slowing the rate of population growth, and enhancing the skills,
productivity and employment prospects of the labor force.
7.    The project's objectives were consistent with the Borrower's strategy for skills
development and remain relevant at this time for the country's overall development. Within
the MOM the low internal and external efficiency of its vocational training centres was
correctly identified and the Ministry decided during project preparation not to invest in these
centres until studies were conducted and a new strategy formulated. The Governrent
supported the position that more demand-driven, industry-based training systems be
developed and decided to provide the private sector with incentives to develop skills training
capacity at the initial stage on a cost sharing basis.
8.    As this was a demonstration project to test a new policy approach to private sector in-
service training, careful attention was paid to project monitoring and evaluation in the SAR.
Detailed quantitative, qualitative and process indicators were developed for each
subcomponent (Tables 5, 6(a) and 6(b)).
9.   In order to measure project impact, evaluation/impact studies of the CGTU and
individual company training services, small enterprise training and advisory services, and the
PMP were to be contracted by the MOM PIU. Two such studies were to be carried out at the
end of 1995 and 1996 (Table 7).



-3 -
10.   Change in Project Design. The project as originally designed was a new policy
direction for the borrower in this sector. A mechanism (SPABP) used by some other
ministries but new to MOM and the Provincial Governments concerned was agreed for the
transfer of Loan funds from the national to the provincial level. This mechanism only began to
operate smoothly in the third and final year of the original phase and thus there were serious
difficulties in implementation of the provincial component. There were serious bureaucratic
delays at the provincial level that delayed the payment of training providers that were only
resolved at the end of the original phase. For these reasons it was mutually agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower that project management efforts would be better concentrated on the
three original provinces and therefore, it was decided not to proceed with the preparation of a
PTF scheme for South Sulawesi.
11.   A key part of the design of the PMP was to be the provision of credit/financing to the
participants in the program. MOM made determined efforts to get approval for and to fund a
loan repayment scheme but was unsuccessful in this because of regulatory constraints. The
Bank and the Borrower agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to delete this scheme in
September 1995. Because of this reason and a delay in recruiting an international consultant,
the PMP subcomponent was substantially delayed in starting up. Under the project there were
to be short-term and medium-term training models. As a result of the delay, MOM unilaterally
decided to use government funds to implement the short-term training model independently of
the project and to extend coverage to twenty five provinces instead of five under the project.
12.   At the request of the Government, the Bank agreed on August 19, 1997 to (a) a one
year extension of the project, (b) a reallocation of funds across Loan categories, and (c) to
cancel US$4,914,000 out of the original US$27.7 million Loan. The project was restructured
at this time to continue with a reduced number of activities namely: operation of the provincial
training funds; and in MOM, a second phase of the development of the Local Labor Market
Information System, continuation of staff training, and evaluation of the project.
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   The project's objectives as described in para. 2 were quite specific and quantitative;
qualitative and process indicators were also established to measure achievement. Two studies
were carried out at the end of the project to evaluate the provincial component: a record of
experiences and an impact study as opposed to the two impact studies included in the SAR.
The assessment here is based on measurement against the indicators and on the limited
conclusions that can be legitimately drawn from the evaluation studies carried out. Table 5
assesses achievement of qualitative indicators while Tables 6(a) and 6(b) provide details of the
achievement of the quantitative targets (paras. 27, 28 and 52 for further outcomes).
Provincial Component
Achievement of Quantitative Targets as set out in the SAR
14.   Establishment of Company Group Training Units. The targets for the establishment of
CGTUs for medium sized enterprises was substantially achieved in the original phase, as the



-4 -
average number of companies in each CGTU was about 80% of the anticipated level.
However, with sustainability in mind, there was a consolidation of CGTUs in the extension
phase based on the criterion of quality of service, to about 50% of the number formed in the
original phase. The CGTU concept has been supported by many medium sized enterprises that
cannot afford a training function of their own. Other companies that originally joined CGTUs
opted out later, mainly as they perceived training to be an extra cost that they could not afford
or did not need at that time due to the economic crisis.
15.   Training Provided to Medium and Large Enterprises. The actual outcome was an
average of 85% of the target in the SAR for the three provinces. The training programs were
designed in response to a training needs analysis and were generally of short duration of one
to two weeks. They were generally for supervisory and higher grades of staff and were
mainly focused on core, quality, personal and management skills. These activities were the
main ones of the component (para. 20 for quality of training).
16.   Training Provided to Small Enterprises.   The training programs were for
owners/managers of small enterprises in the formal sector. The actual outcome was an
achievement of 102% of the target.  The services provided were: (a) short training
programmes generally for production, marketing and financial management skills, and (b)
short tailored consultancy services focused on business planning and development for
individual enterprises.
17.  Job-Seeker Training. The objective of this was to demonstrate private provision of
training for job-seekers with the payment for the service depending on the successful
placement of trainees in jobs. It was a small-scale activity whose outcome was 99% of the
target. Almost all trainees were placed in jobs. The training programs were three months in
duration and were mainly for production operation skills.
Record of Experiences and Impact of the Project
18.   Evaluation of the Project.  Two inter-related studies were carried out for this
component (a) to record the experiences of the project and (b) to measure the impact of the
project. The two studies were large ones, for instance, 1199 people trained by the project, 503
companies, 20 training providers and 22 KADIN/APINDO offices were sampled for the
impact study. The instruments used were questionnaires, focussed interviews and direct
observations. The results were analysed using a path analysis technique.
19.   Much of the analysis in the reports does not permit relevant quantitative conclusions to
be reached (see example in para. 20), which is due to the use of the path analysis technique
used that expressed all conclusions as relationships between dependent and independent
variables. However, some qualitative conclusions are clearly presented. The overall utility of
these studies however, is disappointing. The key qualitative conclusions are: (a) the training
improved the job performance of trainees but had no effect on their salaries; (b) high quality
training had a high impact on improved performance of the companies but enterprises were
sensitive to high training costs; (c) there was an improvement in the quality and an increase in
the number of training providers; (d) the awareness of training in companies has increased;
and (e) employers regarded the demand-driven approach to training as a major strength.



- 5 -
20.   Quality of Training. This was one of the key indicators that was to be measured by the
evaluation studies but because of the special analytical technique used there is no quantitative
data in the report for basic criteria such as the rating of the training by the companies and
trainees. There is one overall conclusion drawn from quantitative data that 'on the whole, the
respondents believed the SDP training to be of reasonable quality'. However, in relation to
this, problems ranked in order of importance, were identified by a minority of respondents
indicate issues of: quality of training providers, quality of training instructors and their
substitutes, quality of training materials, limited training time and limited training budget.
21.   Cost Sharing. A key element of the design of the project was the contribution by
companies to the cost of training on an upward scale of 20%, 40% and 70% per year of
participation in the project. In practice, up to the 40% level was widely achieved but there
was resistance to the 70% level that may have been partly caused by the economic downturn,
though there was a high 70% level of achievement in East Java province. There was also
resistance to the contribution by small companies as they normally qualify for full
subsidization of training costs under government programs. The payments were made in cash
or in-kind in the three provinces with the proportion differing between them. The large
companies in the ITS program paid in cash or in-kind through the provision of facilities and
instructors. The contribution to the CGTU program by the medium sized companies was
mostly in cash. The contribution to the SETAS program for small companies was mainly in-
kind by the provision of items such as facilities and food. These funds were a potential source
of 'leakage' but it is not known if this occurred as they were not audited. The general view in
the operational phase is that many medium and large companies would be willing to
contribute an average of 40% to 50% of the cost of training in the current recession.
22.   This was the first time that such a cost sharing model was used by MOM and that they
decentralized financial control to the provincial level (which however, had it problems as
presented in Section C). The cost sharing model was generally acceptable to enterprises and it
was considered to be effective by MOM. The Ministry has extended the use of variations of
the cost sharing model to other programs together with decentralized budgeting and control.
The experience gained under the project was valuable to the Ministry as it was a learning
experience for them.
Ministry of Manpower Component
Achievement of Targets as set out in the SAR
23.   Staff Training and Development Subcomponent. This program was successful and
was substantially achieved. All overseas higher degree programs were completed except two
doctorates that are well advanced. A number of domestic doctorate and masters degree
programs started under the project will be completed after closing and MOM has provided
government funds for the completion of all degrees. For those staff who have completed their
higher degrees under the project, there was a good match between their qualifications and
posts they held. MOM recognizes that this expenditure on higher education will considerably
strengthen its capacity for policy development and management and they are continuing to
fund more domestic masters programs out of government funds. The planned short-term



-6 -
training was not implemented under this subcomponent as resources were directed to higher
degree training.
24.   Local Labor Market Information System (LLMIS) Subcomponent. Work on the
LLMIS was delayed by the long time taken to prepare the terms of reference and the late
appointment of the consulting firm. The subcomponent also suffered from shortages of
counterpart funding when the economic crisis hit, which led to the cancellation of hardware
for the central office and PCs and software for the district offices in the project provinces.
The system in the central office is capable of serving the needs of MOM but the failure to
upgrade the system as planned means that anticipated efficiencies will not be realised. For
example, the district offices will continue to supply information in hard copy as in the past.
25.   The achievements include: (i) networking computers in MOM; (ii) integration of the
data bases in three directorates general in MOM; (iii) more ease of exchange of information
and improved cooperation between the staff of the three main data bases; (iv) off-the-job and
on-the-job training for relevant staff, (v) the capacity of analysis, programming and user staff
to produce good quality work has been developed; (vi) establishment of an intranet facility;
(vii) development of a MOM home-page on the internet; and (viii) a range of improved labor
market publications.
26.   Young Professionals Entrepreneur Development Program  (PMP).  Due to the
withdrawal of the short-term training model from the project by the Government (para. 11) and
the reduction in the work-plan for the medium-term model because of the late appointment of
the international consultant, the scope of this subcomponent was substantially reduced. The
achievements under the project were the production of resource materials for the two models
and a number of relevant reports by the consultant including a review of best international
practice in enterprise development.
27.   As a project focused on training, the SDP has contributed to decentralization of the
management of training and other labor market measures in Indonesia. After overcoming
constraints and unacceptable practices (Section C) , the project in the end successfully piloted
planning, budgeting, implementation and monitoring of private sector training in three
provinces. As a result, new roles and relationships are being established between national and
provincial levels and these are being extended to other provinces for other programs.
28.   After a slow start, the project satisfactorily achieved overall its targets specified in the
SAR for establishing and testing a system for and implementing private sector training in three
provinces. The achievement of project targets for the MOM component was satisfactory
overall after taking into account the decision by the Ministry to substantially reduce the scope
of the PMP subcomponent. The achievement of the Staff Training and Development
subcomponent was substantial while that of the Local Labor Market Information System was
satisfactory.



C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Ministry of Manpower Component
29.   Apart from the planned loan repayment scheme not being approved for the PMP
subcomponent (para. 11), at the central level, there were no major external factors affecting the
project, as the other activities under this component were entirely self-contained investments
in building the management and policy capacity of the Ministry. Control and responsibility
for the component rested completely with the MOM and were not subject to the same
unforeseen external factors that caused serious problems in the provincial component.
Provincial Component
Project Design and Preparation
30.   The project design and preparation teams recognized the difficulty of implementing a
decentralized project in three provinces where the administrative procedures involved were
new to the central and provincial government officials, and the private sector staff involved.
For this reason, money from a previous project (Loan 2705-IND) was used to finance teams in
the three provinces to prepare their subcomponents. However, in hindsight, the administrative
procedures that were prepared were not comprehensive or detailed enough to facilitate
implementation. A practicable set of standard operating procedures was only used during the
last eighteen months of the four year project.
31.   The mechanisms and detailed procedures for the transfer of loan funds from the
national to the provincial level (SPABP), release of provincial government funds, and
payments for services by the Provincial Government project manager (PIMPRO) were
prepared by the Borrower. Again, as these were new to the numerous central and provincial
level officials involved they had to be further detailed during project implementation to work
effectively. These start-up problems caused temporary but not lasting damage to the
implementation of the project. Disbursements were low and training and other project
activities had to be delayed during this stage of the project.
Project Financing Issues
32.   Problems caused by delays in the provision of project funds. Serious operational
difficulties were caused especially during the first half of the project by (a) bottlenecks that
impeded the flow of Bank funds to the provinces through the SPABP mechanism; and (b) the
failure by some provinces to make counterpart funding available sufficiently early during the
fiscal year. These delays meant that there were long time lags of about eight and ten months
in the payment of PIU staff salaries during the first two years of the project and various
informal measures, that did not involve Loan funds, were taken to alleviate the situation.
33.  In West Java, the then PIU Director gave an interest-free loan to the staff to cover part
of their salaries and operating expenses, that was repaid when the finds became available. In
East Java, all staff worked without being paid until the money arrived. The problem in North



-8-
Sumatra was handled by taking out a commercial loan to cover salaries of lower level staff
and partial payment of training providers and the borrowed money had to be repaid and the
interest costs serviced when project funds became available. During the first half of the
project, Bank review missions concentrated on overcoming these obstacles to the flow of
funds.
34.   Refunds of fees by training providers. In West Java, training providers were asked to
make a partial refund of fees paid to them from the Loan to the PIU to pay for services
directly provided by the latter which the training provider was paid for because of the
conditions of the contract. These included certification, training materials and photographic
evidence to show attendance of participants at training. In the same way, the CGTUs felt
justified in recouping the costs of conducting training needs analysis for their member
companies and the associated travel costs from the fee paid to the training providers from the
Loan. The PIU and PIMPRO siated verbally without providing documentation that the
amounts repaid were about 3% of the contract amount. No evidence was obtained that this
practice applied in East Java.
35.   The amounts involved in these practices cannot be objectively estimated as no formal
accounts of this money was kept. Private sector funding as well as Loan and Government
funds should have been subject to financial control. The rebates were justified for the
certification and the provision of training materials for participants, but the operating
procedures should have been changed to ensure formal control of this money. The charges
imposed by the CGTUs for training needs analysis and travel was clearly wrong as these items
were to be covered within their budget.
36.   Rebates by the PIU to the Provincial Government. It was stated to the mission,
verbally and without written documentation or proof, that depending on the province, 1 to 3%
of the provincial government funds provided to the project were repaid for services provided
by them to the project such as official stamping of documents and photocopying. Also, verbal
information without written documentation was provided that the Treasury Office (KPKN) in
each province got a rebate of about 1% of the loan funds it paid out, also for services
provided. No representative from KPKN was present when this information was given and
they have not commented on this as it was not independently verified with them.
37.   Contributions by the private sector to the cost of training.  In East Java, the
contribution from the private sector was placed in the control of the PIMPRO and was
accounted for. In West Java and North Sumatra cash contributions from companies were paid
directly to training providers, they did not flow through the PIU, though they were
administratively recorded by them.
38.  It seems that there was a large amount of money circulating in the project that was
handled informally (written accounts were not kept) such as private sector contributions and
the various refunds. The amount of money is unknown as (a) proper financial control was not
kept over most of it, and (b) it has not been included in the audits. Some of the reasons for
these informal practices were valid but others were not. The valid practices should have been
formalized by modifying the operating procedures to include them, which was not done.
There was financial control of the Loan and Government funds but these measures would



- 9-
have ensured financial control of the private sector funds. It is not possible to give an
objective view of the effect of these 'unacceptable' practices on the performance of the project
as they were not disclosed until the end of the project.
Award of Training Contracts
39.  In September 1996 the Bank found that a small number of private training providers
were winning a high proportion of contracts (concentration in the award of contracts) in all
three project provinces. There were serious delays in the payment of training providers during
the first three years of the project. These were mainly caused by two factors: (a) the flow of
funds to the provinces was severely delayed in the first half of the project period as described
in para. 32, and (b) there were serious bureaucratic problems in the Provincial Governments
that were only overcome in the third year of the project. There were no serious problems with
delays in payment during the last year of the project.
40.   Many firms would not tender for training contracts because of this delay in being paid
during the first three years of implementation. Also, large firms did not consider the budget to
be high enough to make it commercially viable for them to take part in the program. As a
result of these constraints, the PIUs felt strongly that they had no choice but to use those
training providers that would work under those conditions. Another factor that resulted in
concentration was the insistence by some large companies in the ITS program to use training
providers nominated by them.
41.   An unacceptable reason that caused concentration of training providers and complaints
about the contracting procedures was nepotism. This is defined here to cover contracts being
given to training providers in which project staff, relatives and friends had an interest. There
were serious examples of this in all three provinces and as a result of letters from the Bank to
MOM, different changes were made to project staff in the three provinces and bidding
procedures were changed. In addition there was friction amongst the project staff and the
possibility that false training proposals were prepared in North Sumatra. After a large number
of training staff resigned including the Director of the PIU, the new Director subsequently
refused to accept 79 training proposals from training providers on the grounds that they had
been improperly prepared. Two civil suites were brought against the PIU Director and the
Chairman of the PTF Board in North Sumatra by some former training staff. One suit was
dismissed and the other seems to have been withdrawn. The PIUs claim (and evidence
supports this), that the problems that caused the concentration in the award of training
contracts were overcome during the last year of the project (the extension) as there was a
greater spread of training providers used.
D.   Sustainability
42.   Government commitment to the development of small and medium enterprises is very
strong and there is a strong acceptance that human resources development is a key to growth
in this subsector. For the provincial component, MOM has stated that it wishes to sustain the
SDP program in a modified form in the three provinces from June 1999 and to replicate the
program in other provinces in the following year. In the three provinces, employer
organizations and provincial government support a continuation of the project programs in



-10-
various modified forms. As priority is being given to social safety net programs, the SDP
would possibly be facilitated in accessing the Foreign Workers Fund (fees from the licensing
of foreign workers to work in Indonesia). MOM is also encouraging the SDP to access the
social safety net funds through the MOM Provincial Offices and to seek funding from the
provincial offices of BAPPENAS. The Ministry has decided that the proper location for these
activities in the operational phase should be the Directorate of Training and Productivity
rather than the Directorate of Manpower Planning and Development that was responsible for
the implementation phase.
43.   Financial Sustainability. A government subsidy will continue to be necessary since it
is unlikely that the majority of PIUs and CGTUs can survive without this. In general, it is felt
that enterprises would only be willing to pay about 40% to 50% of the total cost of training. It
would be important to maintain a key feature of the program, that is, the encouragement of
enterprises to participate in training and to establish a training system. A promotional activity
backed strongly by the employer organisations could be beneficial to companies to prepare for
and participate in the forthcoming economic upturn if it encourages them to train to meet
market demand. The PIU structure is the cornerstone of this activity. Public encouragement
and support for companies to train their workers is a key policy of many OECD countries.
44.   The majority of the PIUs and CGTUs from the extension phase are operating on a
part-time basis (while some are operating full-time) until the funding situation has been
clarified. In order to improve their prospects of being viable they have reduced their staff
numbers and operating costs to less than half of the costs they had during the project. They
have well equipped offices. The program in North Sumatra hopes to receive financial support
from the Provincial Government.
45.  Institutional Sustainability. The maintenance of the capacity built up in the three
provinces is dependent on government funds being made available. While there is strong
commitment at present, the longer the time-lag in the provision of funds, the more likely it is
that trained staff will leave the program. Due to the decentralized design of the project, there
are only a small number of officials in MOM who are experienced with the program and these
are not in the Directorate General that is now responsible for it. There is no capacity at
present in other provinces that did not participate in the project and if it is replicated the many
lessons learned from this demonstration project should be carefully applied.
46.   Ministry of Manpower Component. The Ministry have expanded the Staff Training
and Development program using government funds and they have a budget allocation to start
twenty more officials on domestic masters programs in 1999/2000. The MOM also have a
budget allocation for the LLMIS program in 1999/2000 sufficient to sustain and consolidate
the successful outcomes of the project. The short-term training model of the PMP programn
that was implemented outside of the project using government funds is being maintained by
the Ministry.
E.   Bank Performance
47.   During the first two years there were many administrative issues that impeded
implementation of the provincial component and the Bank's supervision efforts were focused



on the resolution of these. Because of this, it was not until 1996 that the conflict of interest in
the award of training contracts and irregularities in the contracting process were detected by
the Bank and subsequently acted on by the Borrower. While the Bank asked the Borrower to
take corrective action soon after discovering the conflict of interest, the Bank could have put
more pressure on the Borrower to ensure that the necessary action was taken quickly enough.
The changes of Task Managers adversely affected continuity of approach to project
implementation. Project financing problems were not detected earlier because the provincial
PIUs only began to talk about them during the final supervision mission in August 1998 and
much more during the ICR mission in March 1999. Considering all of the issues that arose
and given that one aim of this pilot project was to learn lessons from the experience of
different approaches, overall Bank performance in project supervision was mainly
satisfactory, despite some weaknesses, for this innovative project.
48.   With a shift to increased responsibility in the Bank's Resident Mission, there were
improvements in communication with the Borrower. This provided greater opportunity to
provide much needed technical support to the Borrower in procurement, disbursement and
accounting procedures that had been poorly understood by the Borrower in the earlier years of
implementation and had contributed to delays in issuing letters of no objection.
F.    Borrower Performance
49.   Borrower performance improved over time and was satisfactory in the second half of
the implementation period. It was weak during the first half of implementation and in
hindsight, also during preparation. As discussed in para. 31 the level of detail necessary to
make the administrative procedures for the transfer of Loan funds to the provincial level and
the release of provincial government funds work effectively was underestimated by the
Borrower and it was only later in the project that these difficulties were overcome. A standard
set of operating procedures was only used during the last eighteen months of the project (para.
30).
50.   While recognising that the Provincial Governors, through the PTF Boards and PIUs
were responsible for implementation of the provincial component, the national level Central
PIU (CPIU) and the Project Steering Committee (PSC) were set up to facilitate overall
implementation and to take responsibility for policy coordination. The CPIU and the PSC
should have played a more forceful role in the facilitation and monitoring of project
implementation.  For example, a more timely development of the standard operating
procedures (SOP) would have given provincial authorities a firm administrative framework
within which to work and would have reduced the scope for conflict of interest in the award of
training contracts (para. 41). Likewise, strong representation to provincial governments could
have resulted in more timely provision of counterpart financing thereby, reducing the need to
fund PIU operations through staff salary reductions and training provider refunds (paras. 32 to
35).



- 12 -
G.   Assessment of Outcome
51.   Based on the achievement of the key and quantitative indicators (Tables 5, 6 (a) and 6
(b)), the project's outcome was satisfactory for the achievement of implementation progress
and development objectives for the last eighteen and twenty four months respectively, of
implementation. The project was rated as unsatisfactory before this. The efforts made by the
Borrower and the Bank during the first two years to overcome administrative obstacles and the
adoption of standard operating procedures enabled the project to perform satisfactorily for
about the final two years. The improved performance was assisted by the restructuring of the
project in August 1997. Satisfactory, qualitative outcomes about the beneficial effects of
private sector training and its quality were obtained from the evaluation studies but no relevant
quantitative conclusions could be drawn from them due to the path analysis analytical
technique used (para. 19).
52.  It is encouraging that despite resistance from some employers, many enterprises were
willing to join substantially with the Government in managing and investing in the training of
their workers, despite poor program administration by the Government in the first half of this
project. The design of the project was shown to be practicable: decentralised, private sector
dominated training funds subsidised training needs analysis and training of employees. The
value and importance of training in firms was promoted. The medium term implications for
public training policy that the project model and incentives work are substantial. Valuable
experience has been gained in the implementation of decentralized private sector training in
three provinces. Many lessons have been leamed from this demonstration project. The
strength of institutions (Borrower and Bank) lies in the ability to learn from experience. This
has translated into better design for follow-on and other decentralized programs being
implemented and planned by MOM that will be financed through a cost sharing structure
derived from the one used in this project.
H.   Future Operations
53.   The Bank's CAS continues to highlight the importance of continued emphasis on
human resource development to promote economic growth, competitiveness, and structural
transformation, and on a more selective, efficient use of public resources. The Bank has
engaged in a comprehensive dialogue with GOI about training through the publication of the
Sector Study 'Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Productivity Gains and
Employment Growth' (Report No. 16990-IND). The chapter on employer-provided training
concludes 'that this mechanism is important for the creation of skills and it should be
preserved and enhanced. Being demand-driven, it is highly relevant to production and is cost-
effective.  It is the kind of training that produces the occupation-specific skills that
governments have difficulty in forecasting and find expensive to provide through
vocational/technical education'. The study suggests tax incentives and cost sharing between
employers and employees as examples of measures that could be used to support employer
training.
54.  In the light of the very constrained econornic environment currently in Indonesia the
Borrower and the Bank have agreed that priority for human resource development support
would be given to maintaining enrollments in basic education. When the Indonesian economy



- 13 -
has improved, future potential investment in the training subsector would be guided by the
'Training and Labor Market in Indonesia' Report and the lessons learned from this project.
I.    Lessons Learned
55. The SAR incorporated a number of lessons learned from previous projects in the
training and education sector.  Several of these refer to institutional arrangements and
management capacity such as: (a) provision of financial incentives to private enterprises to
develop industry-led and demand-driven training programs on a cost sharing basis; (b)
strengthening the planning, research and policy-making capacity of MOM to help the Ministry
to develop and disseminate relevant labor market information; (c) decentralization and private
sector involvement in project implementation; and (d) ensuring adequate coordination and
communication among implementing agencies. The SDP built on the lessons stated in the
SAR and adaptations were made during project implementation to reflect some of the lessons
being learned during that stage.
56.   There have been valuable lessons learned from this project and the main ones are:
first, after the administration difficulties were overcome the institutional arrangements and
the funding mechanisms used in the project were found to be suitable for the decentralization
of the management and delivery of training at provincial level;
second, many private sector employers especially medium and large ones, are willing to take
responsibility for planning and organizing the training of their employees;
third, though there would be some resistance especially from small firms, many enterprises
accept the concept of cost sharing and it is estimated that in the present recession many
medium and large companies would be willing to contribute an average of 40% to 50% of
their costs of training. The experience gained by MOM under the project was valuable as
under a new policy initiative, the Ministry has extended the use of variations of the cost
sharing model to others of their labor market programs together with decentralised budgeting
and control to provincial level;
fourth, it took two years to get the special fund channelling mechanism (SPABP) used for
transferring Loan funds from central to provincial level to operate smoothly as it was new to
MOM and these provinces. As decentralisation continues this mechanism may have to be used
more widely and therefore, in projects where it will be used care should be taken to ensure that
detailed operating procedures are pilot tested during project preparation;
fifth, if this project is to be replicated or related structures established that delegate
management responsibility to provincial level, it would be essential that comprehensive and
detailed operating procedures would be developed and approved during project preparation.
These ex ante regulations would permit more ex post accountability for performance and use
of funds, which should be carried out. Also effective coordination and monitoring of project
preparation and implementation at central level by the Borrower are essential;
sixth, the original time-scale of three years would have been right for this demonstration
project to test the mechanisms used in the absence of serious administrative delays. However,
based on the experience of the contributions from the private sector, providing subsidies for
three years is too short a time to prepare enterprises to fully fund the cost of planning and
delivering the training of their own employees, about six years would be required; and
seventh, the evaluation studies were carried out at the end of implementation which allowed



- 14 -
no opportunity for corrective action to be taken about the analytical method used. A pilot test
of the methodology carried out earlier in the project would have highlighted the problem with
the analysis and allowed time to correct it.



- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial      Partial            Negligible      Not Appticable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                                            x
Sector policies                              x
Financial objectives                                           x
Institutional development                                      x
Physical objectives                          x
Poverty reduction                                                                                 x
Gender issues                                                                                     x
Other social objectives                                                                           x
Environmental objectives                                                                          x
Public sector management                                       x
Private sector development                   x
Increased women and minority enrolment
Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability
MOM Component                                   x
Provincial Component                                                                          x
Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory             Deficient
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                                        x
Preparation assistance                                                x
Appraisal                                                                                     x
Supervision                                                      x with some
weaknesses
Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory             Deficient
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                                                   x
Implementation                                                 x for last 1.5 years
Covenant compliance                                                   x
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
Project Development Objectives                   x from the
___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __   ____m id   point



- 16-
Table 2a Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose                          Status
1. Nonformal Education      The purpose of the project was to strengthen the capacity of  Closed
Project (Ln. 1486)        Penmas, the govermment agency responsible for out-of-
school education, to provide effective non-formal education
programs by helping it overcome existing problems in
administration, training, materials development, evaluation
and budgeting in seven provinces comprising the majority of
the population of Indonesia. In support of the above
objectives, the project would finance physical facilities,
regular in-service training for Penmas staff, non-formal
instructional materials development, a basic learning fund,
program monitoring and evaluation, and related technical
assistance. In strengthening Penmas, the project would
provide vocational training and basic education to about 2.5
million Indonesians in seven provinces.
2. Second Agricultural      The proposed project constitutes the second phase of a  Closed
Training Project         program initiated under Cr. 288-IND to improve the quality
(Ln. 1692)               and supply of middle-level agricultural manpower. The
proposed project would: (a) upgrade 12 existing agricultural
development schools and three existing in-service training
centers; and (b) establish five new agricultural development
schools and 7 new in-service training centers. The majority
of these centers and schools would be located in provinces
outside Java. In addition, the project would introduce
courses in animal health and rural home improvement in all
agricultural development schools and training centers. The
project would develop and introduce an agricultural
management training program and includes fellowships and
technical assistance for management, training, procurement,
preparation of future education projects, middle-level
agricultural manpower surveys, and tracer studies. The main
benefit of the project would be to help ease the shortage of
qualified middle-level agricultural manpower.
3. Public Works             The main objective of the Public Works Manpower      Closed
Manpower                 Development Project is to improve the effectiveness of the
Development Project      Ministry of Public Works (MPW) construction activities
(Ln. 2258-IND)           through manpower training. The project aims to: (a)
strengthen the management of MPW staff training and related
planning activities; (b) establish a Curricula and Materials
Development Unit in the MPW; (c) expand and upgrade the
MPW's training facilities and staff training program; and (d)
provide experimental training for small- and medium-sized
contractors and mandors (labor subcontractors who directly
hire and supervise construction labor). A second objective is
to strengthen Government planning and management
capabilities through provision of fellowships for key staff of
economic and policy-making agencies.
4. Second Non-Formal         The project objectives would be to increase access to  Closed
Education Project         nonformal education, improve the quality of nonformal
(Ln. 2355-IND)            education programs, and strengthen the management
capability of the Ministry of Education's Directorate of
Community Education (Dikmas). To achieve these



- 17-
objectives, the project would& (a) expand learning programs
in basic education and employment-oriented training; (b)
improve the quality of educational programs by developing
relevant learning materials and providing staff training.
Furthermore, it would; (c) improve program
implementation by introducing better planning, monitoring
and evaluation systems and an applied research program at
Dikmas. The project would benefit about 800,000
Indonesian illiterates and school dropouts in 17 provinces
by providing basic education and employment-oriented
skill training.
5. Third Non-Formal          The project would contribute to improving the human  Closed
Education Project (Ln. 3431-  capital of the poor, through enhancing their basic education
IND)                         and income-generating skills. The project would have three
parts: the Basic Program (BP) would continue the provision
of basic literacy to illiterates and primary school dropouts;
the intensive program (IP) would implement a special
strategy especially targeted to low-income beneficiaries;
and the national support services component would
strengthen the Directorate of Community Education
(DIKMAS) in their capacity to deliver the IP. The IP
components include: upgrading of private vocational
courses, including scholarships; expansion of an informal
apprenticeship program; training in small business
management skills and technical assistance to "Kejar
Usaha" (KU) income-generating groups.
6. Institutional Development &   The Public Works Institutional Development and Training   Closed
Training Project             Project hopes to improve the coordination of planning and
(Loan 3112-IND)             the implementation of public works activities. The project,
which will build on investments in training programs,
systems and procedures, will comprise three components.
The first will provide (a) Staff and institutional
development; improved management and coordination of
training; strengthening of provincial public works offices;
and public works staff training. The second component will
include: (b) Improved Management Information Systems
(MIS); refinement of selected subsystems of the MIS; a
system for uniform reporting of planning, programming
and control of public works programs; and improvement of
procurement procedures, financial control, and audit,
library and public information services. Lastly, the third
component will provide: (c) improved quality control for
constructing and equipping laboratories, as well as staff
training through the provision of testing procedures and
facilities.



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned                 Date Actual
Identification                                    June 3, 1991                April 15, 1992
Preappraisal                                    January 15, 1992              August 19, 1993
Appraisal                                         April 5, 1993              October 28, 1993
Negotiations                                    October 11, 1993             January 31, 1994
Board presentation                              December 7, 1993              March 25, 1994
Signing                                                                       April 26, 1994
Effectiveness                                                                  June 13, 1994
Project Completion                                                          December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                                   December 31 1997             December 31, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99
Appraisal Estimate                          2.0    11.0  20.5   27.7    27.7   27.7
Actual                                      0.0    1.0   4.49    9.73       15.1    16.2
Actual as % of adjusted estimate             0      9      21.9   35.1    54.5   58.4
Date of final disbursement
May 5, 1999



19 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                 Expected Improvements through Duration of Proect
SAR                                 Actual
PIU/PTF Board
Management
1. Cycle-time for training    The PIUs/PTF Boards will   Processing time for award of
proposals from industry   reduce the cycle time for  contracts was satisfactory.
processing of contracts by
10% each year of the project
2. Cost-recovery within   The PIUs/PTF Boards will   80% and 60% targets
project training activities  reduce the Government   achieved in three provinces.
financing share from 80% the 30% partially achieved in
first year, to 60% the second  one province. Satisfactory
year, to 30% the third year of overall.
the project.
3. Board efficiency       The PTF Boards will meet as  Not achieved. They met as
prescribed by agreed      required but were not well
guidelines and there will be   attended.
at least 80% attendance at all
meetings.
4. Program                The PIUs/PTF Boards will   This was not systematically
promotion/awareness       systematically increase the    measured but promotional
activities.               number of                  activities were actively
promotion/awareness       increased throughout
activities by 15%per year    implementation.
over the duration of the
project.
5. Employer satisfaction  The PTF boards will conduct  Evaluation studies indicated
with training and advisory    an annual survey of client    overall employer satisfaction
services.                 companies and will receive a  - satisfactory.
high score that indicates a
high level of employer
satisfaction.
6. Capacity to maintain   The PIUsIPT  Boards will    Comprehensive actual costs
internal costs acceptable for   provide records showing  recorded in East Java.
service delivery.         actual costs of all services    Actual costs using Loan and
provided.                 Provincial funds and notional
costs using employer funds
maintained in West Java and
North Sumatra - satisfactory
overall.
Company Group Training
Services
7. Increase in level of CGTU  Existing CGTUs will    Company membership
company membership        increase their company    targets substantially achieved
membership by 15% per year during the original phase but
through duration of project   number of CGTUs
deliberately reduced in the
extension to assist viability -



-20 -
satisfactory.
8. Increase in availability of  The CGTUs will increase  The training targets in
training services offered  number of assisted training    companies were satisfactorily
through CGTUs              activities within companies   achieved
by 25% each year of the
project
Job-Seeker Training
9. Participation of private    The percentage of Job Seeker All JST training was
sector service providers   Training services provided    provided by private providers
through private organisations  -satisfactory.
will increase by 15% each
year
Young Professionals
Entrepreneur Development
Program (PMP)
10. Access of participants to  The PMP will provide credit  MOM tried but failed to get
credit                    to 100% of all graduates who  approval for a credit
apply to finance new       guarantee scheme and the
enterprise start-up        Loan Agreement was
amended to delete this
requirement from the project.
Local Labor Market
Information System
(LLMIS)
1 1. Information          A range of dissemination   Satisfactorily achieved.
dissemination and quality  methods to be used, such as
reports, newsletters and
fliers. The quality of
information will improve
12. Satisfaction of users with  MOM will conduct two  User satisfaction not
LLMIS                     surveys of users during the    formally measured. Informal
project. User satisfaction  feedback was good.
will increase
Staff Development
13. Return on investment in  Following completion of  Achieved.
staff training            training, 90% of all
fellowship graduates will
receive key positions within
the MOM



-21 -
Table 6(a): Quantitative Indicators for the Operation of the Provincial
Component
Indicator                                  Unit of Measurement        SAR         Actual
North Sumatra Province
Establishment of CGTUs                     No. of CGTUs               15          13 (87%)
Appointment of new training managers       Persons                    100         NA
Training provided through CGTUs            Persons                    14,340      11,945 (83%)
Training provided through non-CGTUs        Persons                    9,775       9,440 (97%)
Training provided for job-seekers          Persons                    192         192 (100%)
Training-related placement                 %                          85%         97%
Advisory services for small enterprises    No. of firms               640         179 (28%)
Training for employees of small enterprises  Persons                  960         956 (100%)
Overseas short-term training               Persons                    25          25 (100%)
West Java Province
Establishment of CGTUs                     No. of CGTUs               30          28 (93%)
Appointment of new training managers       Persons                    300         NA
Training provided through CGTUs            Persons                    16,865      18,705 (111%)
Training provided through non-CGTUs        Persons                    10,564      8,023 (76%)
Training provided for job-seekers          Persons                    315         314 (100%)
Training-related placement                 %                          85%         99%
Advisory services for small enterprises    No. of firms               1,440       1,610 (112%)
Training for employees of small enterprises  Persons                  2,160       2,412 (112%)
Overseas short-term training               Persons                    25          25 (100%)
East Java Province
Establishment of CGTUs                     No. of CGTUs               30          28 (93%)
Appointment of new training managers       Persons                    300         NA
Training provided through CGTUs            Persons                    24,610      15,962 (65%)
Training provided through non-CGTUs        Persons                    0           720
Training provided for job-seekers          Persons                    315         311 (99%)
Training-related placement                 %                          85%         99%
Advisory services for small enterprises    No. of firms               1,908       1,908 (100%)
Training for employees of small enterprises  Persons                  3,240       3,150 (97%)
Overseas short-term training               Persons                    25          25 (100%)



. 22-
Table 6 (b); Quantitative Indicators for the Operation of the Ministry of
Manpower Component
Indicator                                        Unit of               SAR           Actual
Measurement
Young Professionals Entrepreneur
Development Program (each of 5
participating provinces)
Graduates from short-term model (STM)            No. of graduates        900       Not applicable
Businesses started among STM graduates           No. of businesses       630       Not applicable
Jobs created through the businesses started      No. of jobs             1,418    Not applicable
Graduates from medium term models (MTM)          No. of graduates        200       Not applicable
Businesses started among MTM graduates           No. of businesses       140       Not applicable
Jobs created through the businesses started      No. of jobs             420       Not applicable
Staff Training and Development
Persons started overseas Ph,D. fellowships       Person                  3         3 (100%)
Persons started overseas M. A. fellowships       Person                  25        22 (88%)
Persons started domestic Ph. D. programs         Person                  3         2 (67%)
Persons started domestic M.A. programs           person                  65        65 (100%)
Domestic short-term training                     person-month            600       0
Local Labor Market Information System
Annual establishment surveys                     survey                  4
Annual labor force surveys                       survey                  2
Semi-annual labor market information reports     report                  6
In-country sort-term training                    person-week
Overseas short-term training                     person-week



-23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                      Purpose as Defined at       SAR               Status
Appraisal
Ministry of Manpower
Component
Industry Identification Study    Support for PMP medium-  25 studies     Model not
term training model                          implemented by GOI
Establishment Survey       Local Labor Market          4 surveys         Completed in three
Information System (LLMIS)                   provinces (3 surveys)
improvement
Labor Force Survey         LLMIS improvement           2 surveys         Used government
surveys as source of
data by agreement
with Bank
Research on Labor Market   LLMIS improvement           3 studies         Conducted informally
Information
Establishment Survey       Preparation of PTF in South    2 surveys      Activity cancelled
Sulawesi                                     from the Loan
Agreement
Evaluation Studies         Impact evaluation of the    2 studies         2 studies: (a) Record
project                                      of Experiences, and
(b) Impact Evaluation,
by agreement with
Bank
Technical Audits           Auditing of project         12 audits         Partially complied
performance                                  with. Some audits not
satisfactory.



-24 -
Table 8 (a): Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Item                      Local   Foreign  Total        Local Costs  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs                             Costs
A. Provincial Component
Company Group Training    11.14    2.33     13.48       8.60        0          8.60
Services
Individual Company        4.27     0.74     5.01        2.59         0        2.59
Training Services
Targeted Training of Job-    0.71  0.12     0.83        0.52        0         0.52
Seekers
Small Enterprise Training  1.91    0.34    2.25         0.72        0         0.72
and Advisory Services
Project Administration    2.04     2.16     4.19        4.98        0.56      5.54
Subtotal Provincial       20.06    5.69     25.76       17.41       0.56       17.97
Component
B. Ministry of Manpower
Component
Young Professional        2.86     0.97     3.84        0.12         0.13      0.25
Entrepreneur Development
Program
Local Labor Market        1.00     1.01     2.01        0.92         0.30      1.22
Information System
Staff Training and        1.04     1.51    2.56         1.20        0.87      2.07
Development
Preparation of PTF in South  0.15  0.09     0.24        0           0          0
Sulawesi
Evaluation Studies        0.36     0.06     0.42        0.09        0.01      0.10
Project Administration    0.17     0.03     0.20        0.07        0          0.07
Subtotal Ministry of      5.59     3.68     9.27        2.40         1.31     3.71
Manpower Component
Total Baseline Cost       25.66    9.37     35.03
Physical Contingencies    1.29     0.54     1.83
Price Contingencies       2.52     0.36     2.89
Total Project Cost        29.47    10.27    39.75       19.81        1.87      21.68



- 25 -
Table 8 (b): Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  Actual/Latest    Estimate
(US$M)
Source                    Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs             Costs   Costs
IBRD                      17.43    10.27    27.70    15.44    1.87     17.31
GOI and Private Companies   12.00    0      12.00    4.37    0         4.37
Total                     29.43    10.27    39.70    19.81    1.87     21.68



- 26 -
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agree-   Section   Covenant   Present              Original         Revised       Description of Covenant   Comments
ment                   Type         status       fulfillment    fulfillment
date            date
Boardl       5.3          05            C        08/31/1994             -        Provide action plan for
PMP.
Boardl       5.5          05            C        08/31/1994             -        Establish private sector
management committees
and provincial
coordination units for
PMP.
Boardl       5.8          09            C        10/10/1997             -         Provide TORs for
evaluation study.
Boardl       5.8          09            C        2/15/1998              -        Carry out evaluation
study.
Boardl       5.9          09           CP        10/10/1997             -        Carry out technical audits   Technical
every six months and          audit
provide copies to the         completed.
Bank.                         Not
satisfactory.
Boardl       5.1          10            C                               -         Training funds to
implement Part A of
project in accordance with
satisfactory operating
procedures and eligibility
criteria.
Covenant Class:                                                                Status:
I = Accounts/audits               8 = Indigenous people                     C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not        CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project    covered by categories 1-9
funds                        It = Sectotal or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the          allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants            regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



-27 -
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY             1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999    Tota
Preappraisal    5.0      .2              52.9   215.6   193.4   166.1       7.8                                    641.0
Appraisal                                                         42.4                                              42.4
Negotiations                                                      23.8                                              23.8
Supervision                                                        1.6    60.1    59.6    55.3   31.7   55.5   253.8
Completion                                                                                                   9.5     9.5
Total        5.0      .2              52.9   215.6   193.4   233.9    67.9    59.6    55.3   31.7   55.0   970.5



-28 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-      Devel-
Stage of project cycle     Month/  Number of   Days           skills       mentation      Opment         Type of
year     persons   in field  represented La    status lb    Objectives    Problems /c
Preidentification
Identification/Preparation  4/92        6          20       Economist;
Training Spec.
Educator
Preappraisal                8/93        6          26       Economist;
Training Spec.
Project Assistant
Appraisal                   10/93
Negotiation
Postappraisal               2/94
Postappraisal
Board approval             3/25/94
Signing                    4/26/94
Effective                  6/13/94
Supervision                 08/94        1         19     Training Spec.       2             2
Implementation
Spec.
11/94       5         18        Economist          2            3        Implementation
Economist                                    delays
Operations Spec.
Consultant
02/95       2          14     Training Spec.       3             3       Implementation
Consultant                                   delays
10/95       4         15        Economist          3             3       Implementation
Vocational                                   delays
Training Spec.
Operations Spec.
01/96       3          13       Economist          3             3        Unavailability
Vocational                                  of funds
Training Spec.
Operations Spec.
8/96        3         9        Economist,         3             3        Implementation
Training Spec.                                delays
Operations Asst.
8/97        3         15      Training Spec.      2             2
Economist
Operations Spec.
08/98       3          12       Economist
Operations Spec.     2             2
Completion                  3/99         1         12       Consultant         2             2
la DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer; RA: Research
Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.



-29 -
ANNEX A
Contribution of the Ministry of Manpower of the Republic of Indonesia
to
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3721-IND)
The project became effective on June 10, 1994. Originally the cost of the proposed project was estimated
at US$ 27.7 million. However the delays in the start-up the implementation had made the planned target
reduced, which in turn caused the reduction in planned expenditure. By June 1997, at which the original
plan that the project would have been closed, the government cancelled as much as US$ 4.914 million.
Thus by the time when the extension of the project was approved, the total budget estimated was at the
position of US$ 22.786. Again, during the one-year extension period, the project saw that a further
reduction in expenditure could be made. A further cancellation of US$ 4.800 was concluded during the
period of the extension. Thus, from the original estimation of the loan budget of US$ 27.7 million, the
project completed with the total of US$ 15.423 million. Thus, the project had approximately utilised 56
percent of the original calculation.
At the time in the beginning of the project, there were two parallel sets of activities underway. First,
putting in place the necessary administrative measures to enable the provincial training funds to operate
and the preparation of detailed sub-component budgets. Second, implementation of a program of key pre-
project activities to prepare for full-scale implementation, funded from the extension of the Manpower
Development and Training Project (Loan 2705-IND).
The original agreement of SDP was that it was to be implemented over a three-year period, from 1994 to
1997. Nevertheless, due to the difficulties encountered during the start-up, the project was extended for a
year until 31 December 1998 to provide ample time to complete the targets and to gather enough
experiences to test the system.
1. Project Objectives and Components
The project had three key objectives:
1. To develop and implement innovative skills training schemes within private enterprises in three
provinces (West Java, East Java and North Sumatra) for possible replication in other parts of the
country in the future, as part of an overall training program to promote productivity and efficiency of
the economy.
2. To support a special training program for unemployed university graduates in five provinces (the three
mentioned above plus South Sulawesi and Bali)
3. to strengthen policy making, research, planning and management capabilities of the Ministry of
Manpower (MOM).
The objectives were not fully achieved particularly for the second objective, there was no training
implemented.



-30-
The SDP operated at two levels: national and provincial. The national or central component consisted of
the following major sub-components:
1. Staff Training and Development
2. Young Professional Entrepreneurship Development Program
3. Local Labour Market Information System
4. Start up of replication of training fund scheme in South Sulawesi (cancelled)
The Provincial Component, which was the major thrust of the SDP set up its objectives, as the following.
*  start-up new training programs and activities in medium firms by establishing company group
training units (CGTUs)
*  start-up new training programs and activities in individual companies by supporting them to employ
new training managers, and provide limited staff and expenses to support KADIN/APINDO to
promote industry-based training (Individual Training Service/ITS)
-  support targeted programs to train job-seekers for identified vacancies with specified placement
targets in jobs related to the training (Job Seeker Training/JST)
* establish pilot programs to provide training and consultant services to small-scale industries
(SETAS).
2. SDP Organisation
The project steering committee had overseen the project through a central project implementation unit
(CPIU) which served as the overall secretariat to the national and provincial component's base at the
Ministry of Manpower (MOM). Staffng in the CPIU was prepared by the management through a decree
issued by the Project Director of SDP who is also the Chairman of the Board of Manpower Planning and
Development.
At the provincial level, the project was supervised by a provincial training fund board (PTFB) in each of
the three pilot provinces: West Java, East Java and North Sumatra. PTFB was established by the
Governor's Decree in each respective region. The PTFB implemented its daily operation of the project
through a project implementation unit (PIU). The PTFB had a joint and equal representation from the
government and private sector, and was usually chaired by the head of the provincial chamber of
commerce and industry (KAD1NDA). The PIU was headed by a private sector Director from the
employer's association in the province. The staff of the PIU were generally full time private sector
recruits. In addition to the training officers and specialists of the PIU, there were training managers and
assistant training managers recruited and trained to develop the CGTUs. For the SETAS component,
training advisers and consultants were utilised. Since government funds were involved, the project
manager (pimpinan proyeklPIMPRO) and treasurer (Bendahara Proyek) were required in the project
structure.
Even though the project was effective in June 1994, the full-scale implementation only started in October
1994. Thus, the start-up of the project had started very late.



- 31 -
Inter-relationship with Other Agencies
Due to the nature of the project, a wide scope of relationship was established, ranging from other
government ministries/agencies, KADIN(DA) to private sector. For one who hardly knew about financial
procedure particularly applying the SPABP mechanism, it seems very complicated and frustrating.
SPABP mechanism requires the involvement of different ministries/agencies.
The original understanding was, the role of CPIU was only a liaison between the PIUs and the Project
Director. It would not co-ordinate the provincial activities. The expectation from the regions towards the
CPIU, however, had been higher than this. We were expected to have a bigger role and co-ordinating role
while the staffs were inadequate in particularly in qualitative terms.
3. Project Implementation and Achievements
Central Component
Even though the loan agreement was signed in June 1994, the starting date of the implementation of
central sub-components varied. The implementation of central components has suffered much delays.
Except for staff training and development, all central components began in much later date.
The following was the central component's implementation process.
a. Staff Training and Development
*  This sub-component aimed to increase the capability of MOM staffs through the provision of
fellowship for master and PhD degrees, both in the country and overseas.
*  As pointed out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) the implementation of this activity was to be
carried out by a contractor. Thus, the provision of fellowship was assigned to a consulting firmn
through a procedure according to the GOI and the World Bank regulations.
*  The process of bidding for many of us, CPIU, was still new. In the beginning we were still very
perplexed to what should be done. But, under the supervision of the management (Board of
Manpower Planning and Development), the course was going smoothly.
*  The consultant firm winning the project was: PT Salatindo Graha Kreasi (PT SGK). The appointment
of the consulting firm, at least, reduced the burden of the CPIU. This activity was the one, which
started with almost no delay like the other central components. The assignment was to provide
fellowship to MOM employees for Master/PhD degrees both overseas and domestic.
*  A number of candidates had already begun their studies, both overseas and in the country, while the
project was still in its preparation stage. There was an urgency to speed up the start-up of the
implementation of this component in order to maintain the time frame of the project implementation
and the study duration.
* The relevant units in the MOM implemented this activity in a co-ordinating manner. They were the
Board of Planning and Manpower Development (as the unit managing SDP), the Bureau of Personnel



-32 -
(under the Secretary General of the MOM, as the implementing unit for personnel management), and
the Centre of Personnel Education and Training of the MOM (as the project manager and treasurer
for this Staff Training and Development activity came from this office).
*  The procedure of preparation for the students, such as registration for candidates was done by the
Bureau of Personnel together with the CPIU. The criteria of the awarding the fellowship to candidates
were relatively tight, covering academic test (locally called Tes Potensi Akademik/TPA). The TPA
index gives indicator of the level of one's academic potential.
*  Other criteria were English test (TOEFL), age limit, and nomination from the applicant's working
unit. The difficulties in finding suitable candidates were encountered. The enthusiasm of candidate
had been so great, yet they were not allowed to register their study interest to CPIU/Bureau of
Personnel directly. They were supposed to be nominated by their superior (unit of work). Many,
however, tried to contact us directly and individually. At that time the standard procedure was not in
place yet. The registration and selection were done by the relevant unit, the Bureau of Personnel,
which then established a selection team that were represented by different working units.
* The firm together with the CPIU was to find universities. Even though the Standard Operating
Procedure (SOP) was not in place, yet after going through trials, the procedure seems now fell in
place. The achievement of the sub-component is as follows.
Table 1. The achievement of the Staff Training and Development, SDP.
Types of        Target  Real isation  Note
Scholarship             l
Domestic
Master Degree    65      65          *  35 employees have graduated, the rest are still
___ _   _studying
Doctorate       3        3           *  One has already graduated and resumed her
position in the MOM
*  One withdrew  from  the programn due to
personal reason.
Overseas
Master Degree    25      22          *  A change was made to convert two master
degree scholarships for doctorate scholarship.
*  All the employees of this programn had
completed and resumed their posts.
Doctorate       3        3           *  One has completed and two are still studying.
b. Young Professional Entrepreneurship Development Program (YPEDP).



- 33 -
* This activity was actually inspired by the aspiration of the MOM to promote the Young Professional
Development Entrepreneurship Development Program in its effort to minimise the unemployment
rate particularly among the university graduates.
* The idea was supported by the success achieved in the implementation of the respective pilot project.
The said pilot project was funded by the International Labour Organisation for the Directorate of Self
Employment and Job Expansion in the Directorate General for Manpower Placement Development of
the MOM through its activity INS/94/003 and further extended to INS/94/004. The pilot project
covered Bali, West Nusa Tenggara and South Sulawesi.
* A pre-project activities program was funded by the ILO and the outputs include: (a) papers used by
MOM for provincial briefings which were carried out in all five PMP project provinces; (b) draft
project management and operations handbooks, and a program promotional kit; (c) selection of the
universities for the first year in the five provinces; and (d) training of staff from MOM and the
selected universities. The Directorate of Self Employment and Job Expansion in MOM, which was
responsible for PMP, had prepared standard operating procedures for the program which was also
being implemented outside of the SDP.
* The condition of the Loan Agreement of SDP for the YPEDP was the MOM had to prepare the
Guaranteed Loan Repayment Scheme, which would have used ASTEK fund (the acronym of
Asuransi Tenaga Kerja/Labour Insurance). Originally the TOR required the establishment of a credit
scheme before the activity began. Nevertheless, the negotiation with the other related ministries at the
time resulted that it was difficult to use the ASTEK fund. According to the Ministry of Finance the
ASTEK fund could not be used. Thus, there was some stagnancy of the activity for while.
* Another uncertainty arose created by a new decree (No. 316/1994) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
about the use of 1-5% of the profits of all state-owned companies (BUMN). The preparation had
stopped to wait for its implications. At that time, the World Bank mission endorsed the decision that
MOM not to start the PMP until US$0.5 million was available to support the guarantee scheme.
* The correspondence with the task manager of the SDP did not yield solution, as the World Bank was
still adamant about the idea that credit scheme should first exist. The GOI at last after discussion
between the relevant unit with the related ministries, came up with the new proposal to use this new
credit which already exists from the state owned companies (BUN) to provide 1-5% of their net
profit for small scale industries.
* In accordance with this decree from MOF the credit was to be used for established small companies.
If this was the case, what about the new start-up businesses which the YPEDP would produce? The
MOM tried to negotiate for some optional arrangement. These included the provision of small loans
either from ASTEK or the provincial development banks (Bank Pembangunan Daerah/BPDs) in
order to bridge the gap of being a start-up business to an established business. Thus by the time the
business unit was deemed eligible to be classed as an established business allowed them to fall within
the terms of the MOF decree.
* At the time of the appraisal, the Young Professional Entrepreneur Program was to be implemented
only in five provinces. The MOM informed the mission that the Government was now implementing
the program nation-wide, with the funding for the other 22 provinces coming from its own resources.



- 34-
*  The ILO had earlier been selected as the consultant for TA under this component, although a dratt
contract was still unsigned. The MOM wished to review the type and extent of the TA required in
light of the Government's decision. The mission indicated it would like to receive information on the
outcome of this review as soon as possible given the limited time left to implement the project.
*  As part of this review, the MOM has already raised two issues with the mission: a) the location of a
proposed technical assistance unit, and b) the retention of original receipts of expenditures if the ILO
was to be the contractor. The MOM considered that any technical assistance unit should be located in
Jakarta and that the goverrunent should retain original receipts of expenditures as required by
government regulations. The mission endorsed the MOM's view in both matters and conveyed this
directly to ILO representatives.
*  The ILO had already prepared the Terms of Reference together with the technical unit. From the
start, as stated in its correspondences, the ILO was intended to be the contractor for this project. The
constant changes in the TOR have resulted in lengthy process.
*  By the time we agreed with this proposal, then another problem came up. As original plan this
component was to be contracted to the ILO. The appointment of ILO was mainly because the MOM
had a pilot project for this kind in a number of provinces, which was funded by the ILO. The plan
also to utilise the consultant that had been working with the MOM before with the ILO. However,
during our negotiation with the ILO for the contract, there was one particular clause that was not
acceptable both by GOI and ILO. It was stated that" the advance payment of 50% should be paid to
ILO prior to the project". While the GOI regulation (Presidential Decree/KEPPRES) regulates that
only 20% should be paid for the initial stage. The ILO after consulting the ILO headquarters in
Geneva also could not accept to reduce initial payment, they remained adamant towards this figure.
So, we both agreed that we could not go on with this negotiation and we terminated the process.
* The GOI intended to hire an international consultant on individual basis, yet there had been no
progress for this component.
* The mission recommended that the government either cancelled or modified the nature of the Young
Professional Entrepreneur component. At the time of the SAR, the program was not being carried
out nation-wide. Thus, pilot testing a long and short version of the program as proposed in the MOM
component of the project was potentially useful.
*  The consultant of the ILO (Mr. Lammottee) who was supposed to work with us under the ILO was
still available to be hired on individual basis. We tried to contact him for a couple of months. He was
working somewhere that it was difficult to communicate. By the time he was available, we the GOI
finished our evaluation to assess his billing rate. Based on his CV the salary rate we could offer was
under his expectation (US$ 3,500). He turned down this offer. For several months we looked for a
replacement which was rather hard. The CPIU exercised some efforts including contacts some other
consultants, which then be followed by faxes but there were no responses; contacted another project,
in the hope they had another international contact. The last resort was, we asked through the World
Bank, requesting their assistance. Eventually we obtained a number of candidates from the DEETYA
of Australia. The Team of Evaluation then reviewed the CVs. 1
I Team Evaluation is established for the purpose of evaluation of consultant(s) to be recruited in the
project. The team is appointed by the related project manager, usually consists of representatives of
Bureau of Planning (of the Secretary General), of the related project, of the CPIU, and other related unit.



- 35 -
* Based on the evaluation, the decision reached was to appoint Mr. Paul George Di-Masi to be the
consultant for YPEDP. The negotiation then began from early August 1997 and eventually he was
officially recruited in November 1997 for 11 months.
Achievement
The international consultant had improved the modules for promotion, selection and follow up of the
program. The respective technical unit conducted a national seminar to promote and disseminate these
outputs.
c. Local Labour Market Information System (LLMIS)
The process of making the Terms of Reference for the LLMIS final had taken so long time. The technical
unit (Centre of Information) had a series of discussion with the SDP task manager during their
supervision visits together with the former consultant for SIPPTEK2 project.  A  number of
correspondences occurred to complete the expected TOR, which was finally approved by the World
Bank.
The following step was then to establish a Team of Evaluation. The following were the steps to deal with
the preparation of this activity.
*  The project started with the announcement for bidding in the newspapers of Suara Pembaharuan and
Jakarta Post of 24 May 1995.
*  The CPIU established the long list from the firms interested in the project. There were 12 companies
registered. We finally came up with a short list of six consulting firms. This short list was sent to the
World Bank for approval.
*  We distributed the invitation, TOR as well as Plan and Work Condition to the short listed firms to
allow them to make proposal both technical and budget proposals to be reviewed. The time given was
two (2) weeks. The team of evaluation worked on this assessment to make evaluation based on a
number of criteria. The technical criteria consisted of consultant hired, substance, understanding of
the project et cetera. Apart from that, a budget proposal was assessed.
*  The selection of the winner of the bidding was PT Multi Area Conindo (PT MACON). The decision
of the bidding was issued by the letter of the Director of the Project of 31 October 1995.
* Even though the consulting firm has been appointed, a new problem came up. The international
consultant for this activity who was supposed to be the team leader for this activity would not be
available. This also happened with his partner, another international consultant. The reason was, there
was too much delays and they found it difficult to always re-schedule their plan. Thus, there was a
vacant time while waiting to get replacement. Efforts to find their replacement began. After the firm
found a replacement, we have to ask the approval from the World Bank.
2 This was under the Manpower Training and Development Project (World Bank Loan 2705-IND).



-36-
*  During the preparation process, after a couple of months, the team leader and the relevant unit
thought a new activity was deemed to be important for LLMIS, this was: Geographic Information
System.
* We sent a letter asking the approval from the World Bank for another international consultant ofGIS.
Once the NOL issued, the consulting firm got really accelerated and the activity then went on its
track.
Achievement:
The first stage of the activity had achieved the planned target, this included equipment procurement,
various training, publications, and network system. In the middle of the implementation, the project had
been able to introduce the Geographic Information System (GIS). In the second stage of the LLMIS (the
extension period) the development of internetlintranet was carried out, more publication, training, and the
GIS was further introduced in the three provincial offices. The project saw the significant progress
through the consolidation of the Ministry of Manpower's database.
The LLMIS demonstrated a good impact on the technical unit.
Provincial Components
In the pilot provinces, West Java, East Java and North Sumatra, the activities of the project have started
to pick up only around the beginning of 1995. The performance of the provinces approximated full
accomplishments for all the components, even exceeding the adjusted target in some cases. While the
average output per year in each of the provinces were affected by the start-up difficulties, the normal
capacity was probably closer to the rate of output in the extension year.
The SDP has completed 2360 courses for 72,130 trainees from July 1994 to August 1998. The training
activities started to accelerate only by the last two (2) years of the project as shown in Table 1. This
improvement was mainly due to the number of reasons:
*  easier access to the training funds due to more streamlined operations
*  more sufficient operating budget
*  better capabilities of training managers
* better co-ordination between the project and the regional government and
*  improved level of operations and supervision within the PIUs.
Table 2. Training By Pilot Provinces and Component, July 1994-August 1998
West Java        18,705    8,023     2,412     314
East Java        15,962    720       3,150     311       20143



-37-
North Sumatra    11,945    9,440    956       192       22,533
Total           46,612    18,183    6,518     817       72,130
4. The Bank's Performance
Bank performance in project preparation and supervision was generally satisfactory. The changes of task
managers during the implementation however had brought inconsistency in its supervision particularly
for the regional components. It was also a problem in the case when we expected an immediate response
from the World Bank that sometimes took a long time to issue the no objection letter (NOL). Constructive
working relationship was maintained with the borrower, and during the implementation sufficient to be
able to resolve the problems arose and put the objectives on track.
5. Lesson Learned
The project design of using the SPABP mechanism in fact had caused prolonged delays in the start up of
the project. In addition to that the cost sharing model which required the contribution of the central
government (loan), the regional government and the private sector had taken a longer time to put the fund
in place on time. The delays of fund issuance had made the cost-sharing model through the SPABP
mechanism so complicated.
The unavailability of the Standard Operating Procedure in the beginning of the project had also cause
misinterpretation of the procedure in the field.
6. Project Sustainability
Government commitment to sustain the central components is high. The Staff Training and Development
is now being continued. The provision of scholarship for domestic study is continuing using the
government budget. The provision of fund for Local Labor Market Infornation System (LLMIS) exists
particularly to continue the publication and system development. The implementation of the Young
Professional Enterpreneurship Development Program continues on throughout 27 provinces.
Regarding the regional components, each former SDP has its own approach to sustain the activity. The
West Java SDP established the TRAFFIS to continuously increase the awareness of employers on
training issue. In this post-SDP, it is most likely that TRAFIS is to provide its services as training
provider. In East Java, the post-PIU of the East Java SDP acts as training provider. Some formerCGTUs
has been involved in training program with the East Java Regional Office of Manpower. In North
Sumatra, the regional government most likely provides fund to continue training program for SDP.
7. Recommendation
To start any new activity a preparation stage should be provided to the staffs. The selection of staff has to
be considered. Training such as filing management, letter writing, correspondence, computer should be
taken into consideration.



-38 -
It is deemed necessary to have a set of communication equipment and facilities. This is particularly true
considering the nature of the project, which covered not only the central components, but also the
regional components where intensive communication was very crucial to facilitate the implementation.
Misunderstanding and misinterpretation were likely to occur when there was no Standard Operating
Procedure (SOP). The SOP should have been prepared during the preparation stage and should have been
continuously reviewed during the implementation stage. The fact was the SOP and the Criteria for
Success for regional components had been finalised after more than two years after the project started.
This circumstance had led to some problems. The planner should bear in mind that preparation stage
should be well planned.
If the cost-sharing model for training program is to be adopted by the government, a new approach
should be developed to avoid delays in fund reimbursement. In this way, the original scheme of cost
sharing would be efficiently developed and applied. This would certainly give positive impacts, not only
to industry (employers), but also to training providers to be more competitive.



- 39 -
ANNEX B
NONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3721-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A mission by Eamonn Darcy (consultant) visited Indonesia during March 14 to 26, 1999 for the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Skills Development Project (SDP).
Discussions were held with the Ministry of Manpower (MOM), BAPPENAS, and relevant authorities in
the three project provinces (East Java, West Java and North Sumatra). This aide-memoire reflects the
Terms of Reference issued by the Bank and other issues that arose during the mission. The mission
would like to express its appreciation for the cooperation and kind hospitality extended to it in Jakarta and
the project provinces. The mission's findings and conclusions are summarised below in draft form.
Implementation Completion Report
2.    One purpose of the mission was to provide advice to the MOM to prepare its own evaluation
input to the ICR. A final report for the provincial component of the project was received from MOM on
March 12, 1999. A summary report not to exceed ten pages is to be prepared by the Borrower and
submitted to the Bank by the end of April 1999. This summary will be included, unedited, in the ICR. It
would be an independent evaluation by the Borrower of: (a) the degree of achievement of the project's
objectives, (b) prospects for the projects sustainability, (c) Bank and Borrower performance, (d) project
outcome, and (e) the plan for the project's future operation. A number of key issues highlighted in this
aide-memoire would also require careful attention in the ICR.
3.    The mission is of the view that the summary report can be prepared from the final reports of the
provincial component and of the central subcomponents in MOM. It suggests that this report would be
best written by somebody from the PCIU who was closely involved in the implementation of the project.
The mission urges the Borrower to take this opportunity to ensure that its views are incorporated into the
ICR.
4.    Another purpose of the mission was for the Borrower to assist the Bank to prepare the ICR and to
provide the necessary information to the Bank to complete various tables in the ICR. The assistance
provided by the Borrower to the Bank was satisfactory.
5.    The schedule (to be agreed) for the preparation of the ICR is as follows:
* the MOM will provide its summary evaluation report to the Bank by the end of April 1999;
* the Bank will prepare a draft of its ICR and submit it to the MOM for comment by May 15, 1999; and
* the MOM will provide comments on the Bank's draft ICR by May 31, 1999.
Study to Record the Experiences and to Evaluate the Results of the SDP
6.    Two inter-related studies were carried out by local consultants for the provincial component:
(a) Preparation of a record of experience for the SDP, that consisted of two parts:



-40-
* Report A: Comprehensive Record of Experiences;
* Report B: Summary of Records of Experiences and Documentation of Major Issues; and
(b) The Impact of SDP that is called Report C.
An international consultant prepared a final report for the GOI using the three reports from the two
studies. This final report summarised the findings, identified issues, presented policy options, and an
action plan for sustainability of the project. This final report was informed by the conclusions of a
seminar held to discuss a draft version of the report and Reports B and C, in December 1998.
7.    The two studies were large ones, for instance, 1199 people trained by the project, 503 companies,
20 training providers and 22 Kadin/Apindo offices were sampled for the impact study (Report C). The
instruments used were questionnaires, focussed interviews and direct observations. The results were
analysed using a path analysis technique.
8.    Much of the analysis in Reports A, B and C does not directly inform the reader of the quantitative
findings of the surveys, this seems to be due to the use of the path analysis technique. However, some
qualitative conclusions are clearly presented. The overall outcome of these studies that were intended to
evaluate the project is therefore, a major disappointment. The issues, recommendations, policy and
sustainability options presented in the final report have been weakened by the unclear evaluation
findings.
Quality of Training
9.    This was one of the key indicators that was to be measured by the evaluation studies but the
findings suffer from the weakness described in para. 8. There are no figures in the report for the rating of
the training by the companies and trainees. There is one overall conclusion based on quantitative data
(available but not presented in the report) that 'on the whole, the respondents believed the SDP training to
be of reasonable quality'. However, problems ranked in order of importance, were identified by a
minority of respondents that were around issues of: quality of training providers, quality of training
instructors and their substitutes, quality of training materials, limited training time and limited training
budget.
Turnover of Staff
10.   The turnover of staff was high in the West Java and North Sumatra, for instance, in West Java,
there were four different training managers for one post, and five different training specialists for two
posts. There was also turnover of Provincial Government staff working on the project, for instance, the
Provincial Government Project Manager (PIMPRO) changed three times in East Java. This turnover
caused problems with continuity and the maintenance of project implementation capacity. The main
contributions to it were the difficulties experienced with the provision of funds to the provinces especially
in the early part of the project and the temporary nature of the employment that created a push for key
staff to secure permanent employment with a regular income.
Project Financing Issues
11.   Problems caused by delays in the provision of project funds. Serious operational difficulties
were caused especially during the first half of the project by (a) bottlenecks that impeded the flow of
Bank funds to the provinces through the SPABP mechanism; and (b) the failure by some provinces to



-41 -
make counterpart funding available sufficiently early during the fiscal year. These delays meant that
there were long time lags of about eight and ten months in the payment of PIU staff salaries during the
first two years of the project and various informal measures were taken to alleviate the situation.
12.   In West Java, the then PIU Director gave an interest-free loan to the staff to cover part of their
salaries and operating expenses, that was repaid when the funds became available. In East Java, all staff
worked without being paid until the money arrived. The problem in North Sumatra was handled by
taking out a commercial loan to cover salaries of lower level staff and other costs and staff were required
later to repay the borrowed money and service the interest costs.
13.   Refunds of fees by training providers. In West Java training providers were systematically asked
to make a partial refund of fees to the PIUs and CGTUs to cover some operational costs. The
justification put forward for this by the PIUs was that they directly provided some services that the
training provider was paid for because of the restraints of the contract, for instance, certification, training
materials and photographic evidence to show attendance of participants at training. Thus, according to
the PIU, the cost of these services had to be recouped from the training providers. In the same way, the
CGTUs felt justified in recouping the costs of conducting training needs analysis for their member
companies and the associated travel costs from the fee paid to the training providers. The PIU and
PIMPRO stated verbally without providing written documentation that the amounts returned were about
3% of the contract amount. However, informal information obtained by the mission without written
documentation suggests that the amounts were much greater. The PIU in East Java stated that they did
not engage in this practice and that if money was paid by the training providers it was done secretly.
14.   In North Sumatra, training providers were partially paid from a commercial loan because of the
delay in the flow of funds. This money was repaid with interest when project funds became available.
15.   It is the view of the mission that in the cases of the certification and the provision of training
materials for participants, the intention was good but the method chosen to deal with the matters was
wrong. The operating procedures should have been changed to avoid the unacceptable practice of
recouping money in this way and all funds should have been subject to financial control. The recoupment
of money by the CGTUs for training needs analysis and travel was clearly wrong as these items were to
be covered within their budget.
16.   Money returned by the PIU to the Provincial Government. The mission was informed verbally
without written documentation that depending on the province, I to 3% of funds given to the project was
given back to the Provincial Government in return for services provided by them to the project such as
official stamping of documents and photocopying. Also, it was stated verbally without written
documentation that the Treasury Office (KPKN) in each province got back about 1% of the loan funds it
paid out for services provided. No representative from KPKN was present when this statement was made
and the mission did not independently verify that with them. The mission received informal information
without documentary evidence, that the 'cost of money' was actually higher in some provinces than the
amount advised to the mission.
17.   Contributions by the private sector to the cost of training. A key element of the design of the
project was the contribution by companies to the cost of training on an upward scale of 20%, 40% and
70% per year of participation in the project. In practice, up to the 40% level was widely achieved but
there was resistance to the 70% level that may have been partly caused by the economic downturn. The
payments were made in cash or in-kind in the three provinces with the proportion differing between them.
The contribution to the SETAS program for small companies was mainly in-kind by the provision of



-.42 -
items such as facilities and food. The large companies in the ITS program paid in cash or in-kind through
the provision of facilities and instructors. The contribution to the CGTU program by the medium sized
companies was mostly in cash.
18.   In East Java, the contribution from the private sector was placed in the control of the PIMPRO
and was accounted for. In West Java and North Sumatra cash contributions from companies were paid
directly to training providers, it did not flow through the PIU though it was administratively recorded by
them.
19.   It is possible to draw a number of definite conclusions from these findings. The first is that there
was a large amount of money circulating in the project that was handled informally (the money involved
in the practices in paras. 12, 13, 14, 16 and 18 was not accounted for). The amount of money is unknown
but it is safe to conclude that it was substantial. It cannot be estimated as (a) proper financial control was
not kept over most of it, and (b) it has not been included in the audits. Another conclusion is that some of
the reasons for these informal practices were valid but that many were not. The valid practices should
have been formally dealt with by modifying the operating procedures.
Conflict of Interest
20.   This issue was investigated during the previous review missions (1996, 1997 and 1998) and a
result of a letter from the Bank to MOM, different changes were made to project staff in all three project
provinces. This mission investigated the causes of the concentration in the award of training contracts in
all three provinces and it was found that they there were acceptable and non-acceptable reasons involved.
21.   As described by previous missions, there were serious delays in the payment of training providers
during the first three years of the project. These were mainly caused by two factors: (a) the flow of funds
to the provinces was severely retarded in the first half of the project period as described above, and (b)
there were serious bureaucratic problems in the Provincial Government that were only overcome in the
third year of the project. There were no serious problems with delays in payment during the last year of
the project. Many firms would not tender for training contracts because of this delay in being paid during
the first three years of implementation. Also, large firms did not consider the budget to be high enough to
make it commercially viable for them to take part in the program.
22.   As a result of these constraints, the PLUs felt strongly that they had no choice but to use those
training providers that would work under those conditions. Another factor that resulted in concentration
was the insistence by large companies in the ITS program to use training providers nominated by them.
23.   An unacceptable reason that influenced concentration of training providers was nepotism. This is
defined here to cover contracts being given to training providers in which project staff, relatives and
friends had an interest. There were serious examples of this in all three provinces and this issue was dealt
with by MOM as a result of the letter from the Bank referred to in para. 20. The PIUs claim and the
evidence supports this, that the problems that caused the concentration in the award of training contracts
were overcome during the last year of the project (the extension) as there was a greater spread of training
providers used.
Other Staffing Issues



-43 -
24.   There were two instances where relatives of PTFB/PIU staff were employed in the project in
North Sumatra. This did not seem to happen in West Java. In East Java there were two cases, one a
relative of a PIU staff member and the other a relative of a MOM official.
25.   There were a number of cases where PIU and CGTU staff had more than one job even though
they were paid to work fully for the project. The problem was most prevalent in East Java and in North
Sumatra where five PIU staff had other jobs or businesses.
Sustainability of Project Activities
Provincial Component.
26.   Policy of the Ministry of Manpower. In the three provinces employer organisations and
provincial government supported a continuation of the project programs in various modified forms. Each
province submitted a proposal for funding the operational phase to the Directorate of Manpower Planning
and Development in MOM as this was the directorate responsible for the implementation of the SDP.
This directorate prepared a consolidated proposal that it supported for funding in the next financial year
beginning April 1999. However MOM decided that the proper location for these activities should be the
Directorate of Training and Productivity and the proposal was given to them for consideration. The
mission was informed that the policy of the Ministry is to support the sustainability of the Skills
Development Program in the three project provinces from June of the financial year 1999/2000, and to
support replication to other provinces starting from the following financial year.
27.   While MOM decided that the program was worthy of support it would not be given funding to
cover all costs for example, the salaries of PIU staff. As priority is being given to social safety net
programs, the SDP would possibly be facilitated in accessing the Foreign Workers Fund (fees from the
licensing of foreign workers to work in Indonesia) from June 1999 through a budget prepared at national
level. The Ministry wished to provide funds from this source from April 1999 but the fund was depleted.
MOM is also encouraging them to access the social safety net funds through the MOM Provincial Offices
and to seek funding from the provincial offices of BAPPENAS. MOM agreed to write to the Skills
Development Programs and their provincial offices in the three provinces to help them to access funds. It
is understood that support can be given for the overhead cost of running the SDP that would assist the
staffing and operational expenses of CGTUs and the operational expenses of offices for the PIUs.
28.   Three main issues arise from this decision. The first is that it will not ensure that one of the key
activities of the program will be achieved i.e. the encouragement of industry to participate in training and
to establish a training system. PIUs that are solely involved in surviving as training providers will not be
able to afford to encourage companies to train their staff to meet changing market needs. A promotional
activity backed strongly by the employer organisations could be beneficial to companies to prepare for
and participate in the forthcoming economic upturn if it encourages them to train to meet market demand.
Public encouragement and support for companies to train their workers is a key policy of many OECD
countries.
29.   The second is one of timing as the PIUs and CGTUs are not likely to be viable in the present
economic conditions and therefore, the SDP could slowly die due to lack of funding. In the present
economic downturn, only exporting companies could pay the full cost of training and even if they
cooperated the objective of the programme would not be achieved as it aims to assist the range of
companies from small to large to train their staff in line with market requirements.



-44 -
30.    The third key issue is that there will not be a subsidy to pay the salaries of the PIU staff under this
decision. The PIU is the cornerstone for the continued operation of the programn and it is unlikely the
program will continue unless the PIU has sufficient qualified staff. For this operational phase, the PIUs
have decided to reduce their staff numbers to about four to six which is less than half of the number they
had during the project. The three PIUs are trying to find a solution to this key issue at this time.
31.   Following the decision of MOM not to provide comprehensive funding to the three project
provinces for the operational phase, the project institutions in each province have prepared a fall-back
strategy for survival based mainly on charging for their services. The proposals for sustainability in the
three provinces show variations from each other and these are described below.
32.   West Java. A not for profit organisation 'Training Foundation for Industrial Society' (TRAFFIS)
has been established by the PIU. It is providing (a) demand-led training for businesses and (b)
counselling and consultancy services for businesses and job seekers that would also include the assistance
for business incubators. It is generating commercial income and trying to obtain funding that is
consistent with its objectives from other donors, and government ministries including the Ministries of
Manpower, Small Businesses and Cooperatives, and Industry. They have the full support of KADIN
while the Provincial Government is endorsing the program but is not in a position to give financial
support. The PIU currently has four professional staff and it has an office with good equipment and
communication facilities including e-mail.
33.   The timing is bad as the economic crisis is making it more difficult for them to earn commercial
income. Exporting firms can afford to pay for services but ones engaged in the domestic market are less
willing to pay for training at present. Nevertheless, the PIU expects that these firms would be willing to
pay 40 to 50% of the total cost of training. There are ten CGTUs operating on a part-time basis while
awaiting access to funds from MOM and other government programs.
34.   East Java. The position is generally similar to West Java with the important distinction that the
surviving project institutions in this province are determined to be viable from earned income. Any
support they might get from government programmes would be welcome but they plan to survive without
it if necessary. They have been active in generating income since the end of the project. Their services
consist of training, consultancy and seminars. The PIU has formed a foundation and they have been
provided with a good office by KADIN. There are three professional and three support staff in the
former PIU which is less than half of the number under the project. There are eleven active CGTUs and
three active small enterprise group training units (SEGTUs) that are trying to be self sufficient. These
units have about half of the staff they had under the project.
35.   North Sumatra. The establishment of a 'Provincial Body for the Development of Work Skills
(BPKK) has been proposed and this is under review for approval and support by the Provincial
Government. A decision is expected in April 1999. This proposal emerged from a seminar held in the
province to explore the sustainability of the project and it has the support of KADIN and individual
companies. It is hoped that a combination of provincial government funding, training program funding
from MOM and private sector payments for services would ensure sustainability. In the meantime, the
PIU and thirteen CGTUs (who are also considering becoming training providers) are operating on a part-
time basis.
Central Component.



-45 -
36.   Staff Training and Development. During implementation, it was decided that this activity was
valuable to the Ministry and therefore, the number of staff studying for masters degrees in Indonesia was
increased using government funds. Sufficient funds have been included in the budget for 1999/2000 to
complete existing programs and to start 20 more people. The selection of the candidates is based on
administrative criteria (administered by MOM) and academic criteria (specified by public universities).
37.   Local Labor Market Information System. The full range of activities that were successfully
completed during implementation are being sustained in the operational phase using the development
budget. These include the: consolidation of data bases in MOM, computer network, intranet facility,
development of the MOM home-page on the internet, and a range of improved labor market publications.
38.   Young Professional Entrepreneurship Development Program. The scope of the two main
activities in this subcomponent were changed substantially by the Government during project
implementation. The medium-term training model was abandoned while the short-term model was taken
out of the project and implemented nationally using the government budget. The latter model is being
sustained by the Government.






0                   ~~~~~~~~~pApUA NEW GUINEA   8
N I-     -                      -z
u-i
a                                        88
Lii  $            '   ''r"<---        8   8-
<Z   - 2      Z    -
Z(L >~~~~~~(
U                                   <80  _ 
z             El z  2    Ca
_n~~~~~~~~~~~~8 ><  82R2            X 
Nj~~~~~~~~z
CG) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
88                                     Z
0~~~~~~~~
Z                          . 9   t   Js'v4t.-o   &   > "-
z
-~~~~~g
<Q0bAS,,1,Y,,~~~~~~~Z 0 
O~~~~~~~~rla Hz1z z- a ki z z  
tm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Jz t 
X s i~~~~~~~~AA



