e af1t% A5 f4f - A'f ^
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12748-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 14, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12748 IND
Type: SAR
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients onIy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without WeAd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1994)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 2,105
Rp I million    US$475
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July J - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONiLMS USED
APINDO          -    Indonesian Employers' Association
BAPPENAS              National Development Planning Board
BLK             -    Vocational Training CeDner (under MOM)
BPS             -    Central Bureau of Statistics
CGTU            -    Company Group Training Unit
GOI             -    Government of Indonesia
KADIN           -    Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
KANDEP          -    Ministrial District Office
KANWIL          -    Ministrial Provincial Office
KLK             -    Regional Training Center (under MOM)
LLMIS           -    Tocal Labor Market Information System
MDTP            -    Manpower Development and Training Project (Loan 2705-IND)
MOEC            -    Ministry of Education and Culture
MOI             -    Ministry of Industry
MOM             -    Ministry of Manpower
PCR             -    Project Completion Report
PIU             -    Project Implementation Unit
PMP             -    Young Professional Entrepreneur Development Program (Program
Mandiri Profesiona)
PPAR            -    Project Performance Audit Report
PSMC            -    Private Sector Management Committee
PTF             -    Provincial Training Fund
REPELITA        -    Five-Year Development Plan (REPELITA V - 1989/90-1993/94 &
REPELITA VI - 1994/95-1998/99)
SDP             -    Skills Development Project
Si              -    Bachelor's Degree (B.A.)
TA              -    Technical Assistance
TOR             -    Terms of Reference



INDONESIA                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SKILLS DEVELOPMET PROJECT
TABLE oF CoNTEs
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT .SUMMARY ............................... . iii
1.   LABOR MARKET AND TRAINING FOR SKILLS DEVELOPMENT  ... ....    1
A.     Economic Bac'-round  ...................................    1
B.     Training Sector Background ................................    2
C.     Major Issues in the Sector .................................    2
D.     Government Policies for Skills Development .....................    5
I.   BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  ...................    7
A.     Background ..........................................    7
B.     Lessons of Experience ...................................    7
C.     Bank Strategy  ........................................    9
II. THE PROJECT    ..10
A. Project Objectives .10
B.  Project Components and Description .10
Provincial Coponent .11
M.inistry of Manpower Component .13
C.  Project Management and Implementation .16
D.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation ........          ....................   18
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMNT .. 19
A.     Costs .........................................                                 19
B.     Financing .........................................                             21
C.     Procurement .........................................   22
D.    Disbursement .........................................   25
E.     Accounts, Audits, and RePorts ..........           ....................   26
V.  BENEFfIS AND RISKS .             .....................................   27
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....                               ...........  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in November 1993,
comprising Messrs. M.H. You (Economist, Task Manager), Eamonn Darcy (Training Specialist), Robert
McGough (Industrial Training Specialist), and Naoshi Kira (Project Assistant, Consultant). Peer reviewers
were Messrs./Mme. Zafiris Tzannatos, Harry Patrinos, and Carolyn Winter. Mmes. Marianne Haug,
Director, EA3DR, and Himelda Martinez, Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-11-
LISTS OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1    Consultant Services Requirements
Table 4.1    Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 4.2    Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 4.3    Financing Plan
Table 4.4    Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
1 -   Basic Statistics on Manufacturing Companies and Employees in Indonesia
a) Number of Nv. dium and Large Manufacturing Companies by Type and Province, 1990
b) Number of Employees of Medium and Large Manufacturing Companies by Type and
Province, 1990
c) Number of Formal, Small Manufacturing CompaiJes by Type and Province, 1991
d) Number of Employees of Formal, Small Manufacturing Companies by Type and
Province, 1991
2 -   Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects
3 -   Provincial Training Fund (PTF) - Structure, Systems, and Procedures
4 -   Company Group Training Unit (CGTU)
5 -   Small Enterprise Training and Advisory Services
6 -   Young Professional Entrepreneur Development Program (PMP) and Information System for
Self-Employment
7 -   Consultant Services Requirements, & Consultants, Studies, and Training Requirements
8 -   Project Implementation Responsibilities by Agencies and Directorates
9 -   Project Activities and Implementation Schedule
10 -   Project Performance Monitoring Indicators - Qualitative and Process, and Quantitative
Indicators
11-   Planned Supervision Schedule
12 -   Major Program Evaluation
13 -   Detailed Project Cost Estimates - Summary Accounts by Year and Project Component
14 -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15 -   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
CHARTS
Chart 1   Organizational Structure of Provincial Government
Chart 2   Organizational Structure of Ministry of Manpower
Chart 3 Organizational Structure of Provincial Training Fund Board and Project Implementation
Unit
Chart 4   Organizational Structure of Young Professional Entrepreneur Devek.pment Program
(PMP)
MAP
IBRD No. 25570



-iii-
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPM  PROJECT
LoAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower : Republic of Indonesia
Amount : US$27.7 million equivalent
Terms    : Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives &
Description: The proposed demonstration project has three key objectives: (a) to develop and
implement innovative industrial skills training schemes within private enterprises in
three provinces (West Java, East Java and North Sumatra) for possible replication in
other parts of the country in the future, as part of an overall training program to
promote productivity and efficiency of the economy; (b) to support a special training
program for unemployed university graduates in five provinces (the three mentioned
above plus South Sulawesi and Bali); and (c) to strengthen policy making, research,
planning and management capabilities of the Ministry of Manpower (MOM). The
above objectives will be achieved by providing technical assistance, equipment,
instructional materials, staff development and funding support for industry-based and
demand-driven skills training for various activites which could be grouped in two
main components based on implementation responsibiLities: (a) provincial component;
and (b) the Ministry of Manpower component. Under the provnucd component, the
three participating provinces would establish a Provincial Traing Fund (PM  to
implement the following four sub-components: (a) establish 75 company group
traning units (CGTUs) to assist private enterprises to set training priorities, prepar_-
training plans, implement training in medium-sized firms with a special emphasis on
productivity enhancement; (b) develop individual company training services to start-
up new training programs and activities in mainly large firms by encouraging them
to employ new training managers and puttng a special emphasis on productivity
improvement through the training of managers, supervisors, technicians and
maintenance staff; (c) support the training ofjob-seekers for identified vacancies with
specified targets for placemnt of trainees in these jobs; and (d) establish pilot
programs to provide training and consultan services to small-scale maw facurng
firms. Under the MOM component, MOM would: (a) establish demonstration
programs to develop young professional entrepreneurs for sef-employment (PMP),
primarily unemployed university graduates, in the selected five provinces; (b) develop
the local labor market information system in four selected provinces and improve
their registration and placement services to employers and job-seekers; (c) support
staff development of the MOM to upgrade its capacity for management, research and
policy development through domestic and overseas training and fellowship programs;
and (d) assist South Sulawesi Province to prepare a PTF scheme for a possible
follow-up, province-based skills development project.



-iv-
Benefits    The major benefit would be the demonstration to policy makers, employers, and
training providers of a variety of approaches to industry-based and demand-driven
skill training through fnancial incentives provided under the PTFs. Direct and
indirect benefits would include: (a) increased awareness of the importance of training
by employers; (b) increased capacity for skill training in the participating fns; and
(c) improved linkages among labor, fimns, and market conditions resulting from the
increasee participation of employers and quality improvements in industry-based
training. During the demonstration project period, approximately 77r000 existing
workers (53,000 through CGTUs, 19,000 through non-CGTUs, as well as 5,000
employees of small enterprises) and about 800 job-seekers would be trained, whLe
employers of about 4,000 small enterprises would receive consultant advisory
services. In addition, about 5,500 unemployed university graduates would be
prepared for self-employment as young professional entrepreneurs. The PMP would
create about 11,5G0 new jobs within the newly established small businesses. The
proposed project would also help strengthen thae planming, research and policy-making
capacity of the MOM through the staff development program.
Risks    :  There may be a risk that some of the project activities may not be sustained following
the completon of the provincial skills training components. In order to m-tigate this
potential risk, new and amended employer levy-grant schemes to partially pay for the
provincial skills training activities would La implemented in the three PTF provinces
not later than June 30, 1997 (para. 4.8). Since the project activities spin five
geographical areas and inv.'ve the provincial governments, the MOM and the
private sector, effective coordination and management are especially important. To
address these concerns, local and international consultants would be used to
supplement the implementation capacity of the PIUs. To ensure active participation
of private sector employers, the Governors of the project provinces have agreed to:
(a) appoint the Chairpersons of the PTF Boards and the PIU Directors from the
private sector; (b) give the private s& -tor equal representation on the PTF Board with
the public sector; and (c) appoint the Chaipersons of the Private Sector Management
Committw e for the PMP from the private sector.



Esthmated Costs:                           Loca           Forei           Total
US$ miion
Provincial Component
Company Group Trainmg Services             11.1            2.3            13.4
Individual Company Training Services        4.3            0.7             5.0
Targeted Job-seeker Tralig                  0.7            0.1             0.8
Smnl Enterprise Trainng & Advisory Services  1.9           0.4             2.3
Project Administration                      2.0            2.2             4.2
Sub-total                                  L              i
Ministry of MAanower Camponent
Young Professional Entrprenr
Development Program (PMP)                 2.9            1.0             3.9
Local Labor Market Information System       1.0            1.0             2.0
Staff Training & Development                1.1            1.5             2.6
Preparation of FPF in South Sulawesi        0.1            0.1             0.2
Evaluation Studies and Technical Audits     0.3            0.1             0.4
Proj xt Administration                      0.2            0.0             0.2
SUbt_t_l                                   :                             2 u
Total Base Costs                                           A            35.0
Physical Contingencies                      1.3            0.5             1.8
Price Contingencies                         2.5            0.4             2.9
Total Costs/a                           VA             1
3GOI & Private Companies/b                 10.9            1.1            12.0
IBRD                                       18.5            9.2            27.7
Total Costs/a                           22A             1              39.7
/a Inclusive of identifiable taxes and due estimted at US$0.3 million equvalen
/b The private compaies participating in the PTP Scheme would s te   aining cots based on the following forma:
20% in year one, 40% in yea two, amn 70% in year three (pam. 3.26).
Estfmated Dibursebntus:
Bank Fiscal Year         1995         1996         122           1998
Anmnal                    6.5          9.5          9.0           2.7
Cumulative                6.5         16.0         25.0          27.7
Economic Rate of Retum: Not appLicable.
Poverty Category: Not applicable.



-1-
INDONESIA
JKILIS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. LABOR MARKET AND TRAINING FOR SKILLS DEVELOPMENNT
A. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.1       Indonesia's economy expanded rapidly in the 1980s in respoioe to economic reforms,
which opened the economy to trade through deregulation. Despite ensuing external shocks, the
economy succeeded in maintaining strong growth, in implementing substantial structural reforms that
diversified the economy and reduced the reliance on oil, in expanding the role of the private sector,
and as a result, in considerably reducing poverny.
1.2       Evidence suggests that the Indonesi&n labor market is performing well, and responded
well to the demand shocks and adJustments of the 1980s. It has exhibited wage flexibility and
mobility, with the result that employment has shifted over the past decades from agriculture to
manufacturing and services, a trend which is likely to continue in the near future.
1.3       One of the engines of economic development and employment creation has been the
growth of the export-oriented manufacturing sector which has mushroomed based on relatively low-
skill, labor-intensive production. Exports more than doubled between 1987 and 1992, and the sector
is expected to sustain its growth of over ten percent per year during the coming years by takdng
advantage of Indonesia's abundant supply of low-wage labor, especially that of females recently
drawn into the formal manufactung sector in large numbers.
1.4       However, Indonesia is faced with increasing competition in these export market
segments, especially from India and China wih even more abundant supplies of low-wage la&'rers.
Enhancement of the competitiveness and productivity of the manufactring work force will be a key
to sustaining future growth. The 1993 Country Economic Memorandum for Indonesial also stresses
the need to improve productivity, efficiency and quality throughout the economic sector.
1.5       Indonesia's newly industrializing neighbors, such as Thailand, Singapore, and Republic
of Yorea expanded manufacturing output and employment, by concentrating initially on low-
technology, unskilled-labor-intensive, export-oriented industries, and later progressively shiffing
production into more skldl-intensive activities. This added higher value to commodity production and
helped them to maintaiu international competitiveness and deepen their inmustrial bases. Two key
factors in this gradual change in te structure of their industries were good quality general education
and industry-lcd, job-related training. Indonesia is beginning to prepare the ground in each of these
respects.
I/     Indonesi: u i          loment, The World Bank, May 1993.



-2-
B. TRAINING SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.6       Vocational Education and Training. In Indonesia, skills training is provided through
a variety of mechanisms. Within the formal education system, the Ministry of Educadon and Culture
(MOEC) provides vocational and technical education at the secondary level. The private sector
makes significant contribution, and of the 1.4 million totai students of these secondary schools in
1991/92, about 63 % are ir the private sector. The mest important schools providing industrial skills
are technical senior secondary schools (STM) with an enrollment of about 510,000, of whom about
97% are male, followed by commercial senior secondary schools (SMEA) with an enrollment of
about 700,000, of whom about 67% are female. The Directorate of Community Education
(DMKMAS) within the MOEC also provides vocational training at about 17,000 training centers for
approximately 500,000 trainees annually, most of whom are school dropouts or adult illiterates.
1.7       Skills Training. The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) also offers pre-employment skills
training for unemployed out-of-school youth in its 153 public training centers (BLKs/KLKs) in the
fields of mechanical engineering, automotive, electrical engineering, building and construction,
business skills, agriculture, etc. The MOM skills training centers enroll about 60,000 people
annually. Private training centers are an important source of skills training with a vastly larger
training capacity than the public programs. They offer mainly commercial rather than technical
courses. The capacity of the sector is not acctrately known as only about 3,000 private training
centers are registered with the MOM. It is, however, estimated that there are about 25,000 private
centers offering skills training with an annual enrollment of about 500,000 people.
1.8       Manufacturing Industries and Enterprise-based Training. Approximately 16,000
large- and medium-sized manufacturing companies were in operation in 1990, employing about 2.5
million people (see Annex 1). In addition, there were about 2 million small enterprises2 in 1991
in the formal and non-formal sectors with about 7 million employees, of which about 140,000
companies with about 1.4 million people were in the formal sector. Several studies in Indonesia
show that industry-based training is limited, and that there is low awareness among employers of the
benefits of training. There is also evidence, however, of a small but growing training response from
firms, particularly from large state-owned firms and large private fms with capital from overseas.
C.   MAJOR SUES IN TtiE SECTOR
1.9       The existing skills training system of Indonesia over,   s not capable of meeting the
challenge to increase competitiveness via productivity. In order to meet the expansion and changing
nature of industrial production, the technical training capacity needs to be substantially upgraded.
Lack of early attention to the human resources requirements of industrial development could lead to
skill bottlenecks and constrain growJh.
1.10      Training policies in Indonesia have been dominated by the central government,
particularly by the MOM. In line with the general policies of deregulation, decentralization and
reliance on the private sector, there is a need for greater devolution of training decision-making and
21     Small enterprises are defined as t}e ones having operating capital up to Rp. 600 million.
The small enterprise fonnal sector consists of companies with capital of Rp. 50 up to
600 million, while the informal sector is defined as companies with, capital below Rp. 50
million.



-3-
management to local governments, as well as more active involvement bv employers. It vwould be
more appropriate therefore to develop provincially-based, demand-driven training systems, where
local skill needs can be more easily identified and relevant responses developed. The role of
govermnent as a major provider of training should be reoriented to create an environment that woitld
encourage, suppoit and moritor training by the private sector.
1.11      There are labor market characteristics which need to be considered as part of the
economic challenges which lie ahead: low labor productivity; low wages of the work-force; rising
number of women entering the labor force, many for the first time without adequate schooling;
increasing unemployment among the educated and, in parallel with this, early evidence of identified
skill shortages. The role of good basic education to create a successful broad-based development
based cannot be overemphasized. Additional benefits will arise from the development and expansion
of demand-driven training. Recent Bank studies3 have provided evidence that only a few firms are
in a position to provide training. Shortages are reported mainly for skilled artisans, supervisors, and
technicians.
1.12      Specifically, the following is a list of major issues to be addressed in the human
resources sector: (a) inefficiency and low quality of public training institutions; (b) lack of training
standards and clear accreditation procedures that limit the effectiveness of private training
institutions; (c) lack of capacity of enterprise-based training; (d) lack of financial resources to
develop and sustain enterprise-based training; (e) inadequacy of the existing labor market information
system; and (f) lack of adequate institutional capacity at the MOM.
Ineiriciency and Low Quality of Public and Private Traiing Institutions
1.13      Public Training  stitutions. The quality and efficiency of most of MOM's BLKs/
KLKs are low, and they lack the characteristics required for effective skills development, such as
being demand-driven, flexible, responsive to the needs of employers, efficient, and sustainable. The
major problems of the govermnent training institutions are: (a) centrally determined curricula which
are not responsive to local skills needs; (b) weak links with employers; (c) outdated and under-
maintained equipment; (d) an inadequate snpply of training materials; (e) underqualified instructors
and ineffectve training methods; and (f) inflexible financing through the development budget.
Moreover, public training centers have been under-funded (see also para. 1.21), with the result that
they are considerably under-utilized.
1.14      Therefore, there is an urgent need to -eview and evaluate these public training centers.
At the same time, public sector roles in training delivery and decision making need to be reassessed
and rationalized. A more decentralized system is needed, and public training decisions should be
made at the provincial level or below. Individual training institutions need greater autonomy to
determine their own programs in response to local skills needs, and also need to maintain a close link
with industry. A comprehensive evaluation study of the skills training institutions and systems is
being undertaken under the Manpower Developmeat and Training Project (MDTP, Loan 2705-IND).
1.15      Private Training Institutions.  The quality of private technical training varies
considerably, but is generally low. Many institutions lack the necessary specialized facilities,
equipment and instructors. The large number of low quality private training institutions, some
3/     For example, Shafiq Dhanani, Manufacturing Entergrises Survey in East Java. West Java
d Nor        tra, January 1993.



-4-
heavily enrolled, may reflect imperfect information flows. There is no effective accreditation
scheme; the requirements for registration by the MOEC and MOM are minimal. Without adequate
information on the quality and effectiveness of particular institutions or programs, employers and
potential trainees are unable to assess the value of training options. Policies affecting private training
institudons need be reviewed and evaluated so that they can effectively meet the needs of employers
and also provide alternatives to public training.
Lack of Capacity and Ineffectiveness of Enterprise-based Trainig
1.16      LArge and Medium Enterprises. Enterprise-based training, while considered to be one
of the most cost-effective and responsive ways of upgrading technical skills, may also suffer from
market failure (the "poaching extenality"). The benefits trom training are to one degree or another
transferable and can accrue to firms that poach workers from other firms that incurred the costs of
training. Unless firms agree to some sharing arrangement of costs, individual firms will invest less
in training. This can lock the country to a vicious circle in wblch firms produce low quality products
(because there are few trained workers) and workers acquire litde training (because few high quality
products are produced). In addition, the Indonesian labor market has high turnover of employees,
and firms have little incentives to provide training for transferable skills. A Bank study4 showed
that, with the exception of a few large companies, only a minority of manufacturing companies train
employees. Thus, training systems and facilities are wea1z.
1.17      A number of studies have shown that the majority of employers are not aware of the
benefits of training to improve their business performance and competitiveness. Many businesses
have been faced with the problems of low productivity and quality, but have not invested in training
as a solution. The benefits of training need to be promnoted with case studies of successful training
examples as role models. In addition, at present, links between employers and training providers
are weak, and there is a lack of labor market information available to employers, training providers
and the general public. ITne present arrangements for involving employers in the public training
system are dominated by government officials, and arrangements that wil increase private
representation are needed in order to promote collaborative efforts.
1.18      In response to identified training needs, employers at mediun and large companies can
provide training in their own premises, or obtain it in a training facility jointly operated by several
enterprises or business associations, through contracts with public or private training institutions, or
by a combination of these options. The establishment of a Company Group Training Unit (CGfU)
for a group of enterprises to train employees is one of the most viable options. This kind of training
is by definition demand-driven, responsive, relevant and efficient. As enterprise-based training is
one of the most cost-effective means of upgrading the skills of the work-force, encouragement and
support for CGTUs are justified.
1.19      Small Enterprises. In addition to the problems which large and medium enterprises
face, small enterprises in the formal sector have another set of problems. Studies conducted by the
Ministry of Industry (MOI) report that a majority of small companies regard marketing as by far the
most serious problem. These enterprises have difficulty finding markets for their products due to
a lack of adequate market information and marketing skldls. Other major problems identified are,
in order of importance: lack of capital and financial resources, inadequate managerial capacity, and
inefficient production techniques.
4/     bd-onesia: Emploment ad Tain, The World Bank, June 1991.



-5-
1.20      To assist small enterprises, the Govermnent launched a Foster Parent Program (Bapak
Angkat) in 1990 in which large companies, mostly state-owned, directly provide a group of small
enterprises mostly in the non-foanal sectors (operating capital of Rp 50 million or below) with some
technical and fmnancial o.ssistance. According to the MOI, during the tvo-year period between 1999
and 1992, about 13,000 large companies provided various services to abJout 90,000 small companies.
Consultant advisory services to solve the specific problems proved to be the most effective way of
tackling their vroblems. Such services might be sustained through the Foster Parent Program or
other schemes.
Lack of Financial Resources to Develop and Sustain Enterprise-based Traing
1.21      Employers have only small amounts allocated for training of their employees. The
establishn;ent of external funds to support training system development during its initial stages is
justified on the condition that the sustainability of such training systems will be assured with some
cost-sharing schemes. The levy-grant scheme which was introduced in East Java is one such
example.
Inadequacy of the Existing Labor Market Information System
1.22      An important element in a flexible and responsive training system is the provision of
labor market information to guide the decision-making of government policy makers, traing
providers, and individual trainees or job-seekers. While impiovement has been made in the
collection of employment data at the national level, the development of provincial-level statistics on
the balance of skills demand and supply and the performance of taining providers are needed in
order to support better planming and allocation of resources for skldls trainmg by both the public and
private sectors. In addition, ways of measuring training effectiveness and outcomes need to be
developed to allow informed training choices.
Lack of Adequate Intional Capacity of the Minist of Manpewer
1.23      The MOM lacks adequate capacity to conduct research related to labor market issues,
to make sound policy decisions and to conduct effective human resources management. Improving
the capacity of the Ministry for setting and implementing training priorities is particularly important
given the development of the new organization structure announced in November 1993 and the on-
going evolution of the training activities of MOM. Threfore, MOM staff traming and development
are needed so that the Ministry can provide quality s -r ices to the general public.
D.   GoVRNmFNT PoLucE  Foo  SLLS DEVELOPmENT
1.24      Following substantial expansion of access to basic education at the primary level, the
Govermnent of Indonesia plans to implement its obligatory nine-year basic education program, as
well as to improve the quality of basic education, with Repelita VI starting in 1994. The
Government recognizes the impormance of general basic education as the foundation for further
acquisition of specific techical skills either through pre-service or on-the-job training (para. 1.11).
1.25      The 1993 Guidelines of State Policies (GBHN) emphasizes the importance of humran
resources development and the reduction of unemployment. To address these issues, the MOM has
set up seven major priority areas to focus upon during the Repelita VI: (a) national manpower
planning; (b) an integrated manpower information system; (c) development of self-employed young
professionals; (d) apprenticeship programs; (e) Pancasila industrial relations and protection of



-6-
laborers- (f) productivity enhancement of Indonesian workers abroad.; and (g) staff development. In
addition, the MOM is concerned about the low in a and eternal efficiency of its BLKs/KLKs
and has decided not to invest further in  es centrs unil thorgh sudies are conducted, and a new
development strategy is carehlly ibrmulated within the context of the above-mentioned seven
priorities. The Bak supports this decision.
1.26      The Government supports the position ta more demand-driven, industry-based tranimg
systems need to b. developed, and that the Government should provide the private sector with
incentives to develop skills training capacity at the inWtal stage on a cost-sharing basis. Following
the experience of otier countries, the Govermnent innds to demonstrate demand-driven and
industry-led skills raing programs with Bank assiste trough the provision of financial
incentves to private entprises which are willing and capable of establishig such training. Based
on the lessons learned from this proposed demonstraton project, the Government intends to replicate
or suitably amend such a system throughout the country.



-7-
I. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. BACKGROUND
2.1       Since the early 1970s, the Govenunent has underakcen an ambitious program to expand
the capacity of public institutions to provide technical manpower and industrial skills training at the
secondary, post-secondary and professional/technical levels. The Bank Group has financed 29
education and training projects (US$1,828 million total) in the sector. Of these, 19 projects were
implemented through the MOEC, totaling about US$1,251 million. The Bank also supported the
development of specialist and professional training services through several other ministries including
one project with the MOM - 10 projects with a total value of US$578 million (See Annex 2 for
details on the Bank Group-financed education and training projects).
2.2       Overview of Relevant Bank Investments. Since the Bank's first project in the sector
in 1970 (Credit 219-IND), the Bank has assisted the Govermnent through a variety of investments.
Credit 219-IND supported the establishment of five centralized training workshops for practical
training of students from nearby secondary technical schools. Loan 1237-IND supported the
development of additional centralized workshops as well as the establishment of 17 vocational
trainig centers for the MOM. Credit 869-IND and Loan 2290-IND assisted in the establishment
of a polytechnic system to train egineerng technicians.
2.3       In higher education, technical and professional training capacity was upgraded thrugh
two University Development Projects (Loans 1904-IND and 2547-IND). Tbrough the Science and
Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND), additional emphasis was given to the development
of higher level scientific and technological manpower. The Bank also assisted in more specialized
projects to upgrade accountants and financial management (Loan 2940-IND), hulman resouces
associated with the tree crops subsector (Loan 2992-ND), and professional personnel in the Ministry
of Public Works, BAPPENAS and the Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT) (Loans 2258-IND, 3112-IND and 3134-IND, respectively).
2.4       Over this period, the Bank's strategy has gradually evolved from an initial emphasis on
assistance to alleviate the critical shortage of technical personnel, to an increasing emphasis on
quality issues, and then to a wider sectoral emphasis on investment programs and policy reforms.
To a large extent, Bank lending to the sector has mirrored the evolution of Bank-wide policies. This
is particularly evident since the development of the Barnk's policy paper on Vocational and Technical
Education and Training in 1991.5/
B. LESsoNS OF EXERIENCE
2.5       Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) and
an Impact Evaluation Repori& have shown that many specific lessons of experience of projects in
the sector have been incorporated into succeeding project designs See Annex 2). For example,
useful lessons have been learned about institutional development, such as to: (a) situae Project
5/     Vocational and Technical Education and Training. A World Bank Policy Paper, The
World Bank, May 1991.
6/     Impact Evaluation Report: Idonesia: Sustainabilitv of the First and Second Education
Pts, Report No. 767, 1989.



-8-
Management Units within existing structures; (b) ensure the early appointment and continuity of key
project staff; (c) ensure adequate coordination and communication among implementing agencies;
and (d) provide pre-departure language training to overseas fellows. Some broader themes have also
emerged from experience in both completed and current projects. In many instances, the ongoing
experience gained through supervision is more relevant, given the substantial changes in project focus
and design that have occurred over the past two decades.
2.6        The studies mentioned above underpin the Bank's shift to policy-oriented projects and
a sector-wide approach to education in general, and more specifically, to vocational and technical
education and training. The Bank has decided to finance only those projects that feature approaches
that are "demand-driven," flexible and relevant to the needs of employers. In principle, the
Government has come to agree with the Bank's position on this matter.
2.7       Important lessons gained from tAie ongoing Manpower Development and Training Project
(MDTP, Loan 2705-ND) for the private sector are: (a) supply-driven training systems produced
mixed results in terms of quality, efficiency, and relevancy to changing needs for skldled industrial
workers; (b) private sector training expenditure and expertise are low, and system capacity needs to
be developed in order to react to increasing competitive pressures; (c) for the private sector to be
wWiling to develop training, it needs to be permitted to play a significant role along with government
m the management of training and transparent arrangements need to be established to achieve this;
and (d) supporting the development of in-plant training is more successful when employers are
involved in the ownership of the process and when private sector experts are involved, compared to
such an initiative managed directly by go-vernment. Other principle lessons are that the role of MOM
shotuld change in order to focus on creating the enabling environment for the private sector to
develop training through provision of fmancial incentives and to supervise rather than control this
development. Also MOM needs to: (a) promote the participation of all interests in the training
system; (b) gradually decentralize authority to provincial level and develop management, coordinaton
and technical skills at both national and provincial levels; (c) develop its training operations to be
more self-financing, efficient, flexible and relevant; and (d) develop practical and reliable labor
market information system for both employers and employees. In order to fulfil its role, the MOM
needs to strengthen its institutional capacity through technical assistance and staff development.
2.8        The proposed project has incorporated the lessons learned from the past and ongoing
projects in the concept and design of this project. Major elements include: (a) provision of financial
incentives to the private enterprises in developing industry-led and demand-driven training programs
on a cost-sharing basis; (b) strengthening of the planning, research, and policy-making capacity of
the MOM through relevant technical assistance and staff development, which would help the Ministry
to develop and disseminate the labor market information and implement the Young Professional
Entrepreneur Development Program (PMP); and (c) decentralization and private sector involvement
in the project implementation.



-9-
C. BANK STRATEGY
2.9       As highlighted in the Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Executive Directors
in December 1993, overall Bank strategy for Indonesia recognizes that investing in people will
continue to be a critical ingredient for improving human health and welfare, slowing the rate of
population growth and enhancing the skills, productivity and employment prospects of the labor
force. These investments will not only provide vital support for more rapid economic growth, but
will also contribute to the goal of more equitable participation, by women as well as men, in the
development process. Rapid growth alone, however, will not be sufficient to ensure continued
progress and the reduction of absolute poverty in Indonesia, especially in the eastern islands and
among the more disadvantaged groups in resource-poor areas in Java. In addition to the --pansion
of basic social infrastructure and services, greater attention is given to policies and expenditures that
will improve the access of the poor to key social services and to productive resources, through
balanced regional growth and the development of programs aimed at pockets of poverty wherever
they may exist.
2.10      The expansion of employment opportunities and the improvement of the quality of
human resources are key elements to this strategy. Associated with these elements, the Bank
supports the Government's subsector priorities to: (a) upgrade the capacity of public and private
taining institutons and firms that provide skill training; (b) improve the quality of such training
(improved internal and external efficiency); (c) decentralize much of the decision-making in the
subsector to the provincial and local levels; (d) introduce more employer awareness and participation
in all forms of skill iraining; (e) reduce the public cost of slill training through the introduction of
cost recovery; and (f) upgrade the levels of technology currently available in public and private skill
training programs. The proposed project is part of a long-term Bank effort to assist the Government
to develop viable systems for vocational and technical education and training. These and future
efforts would be aligned with the Bank's documented policies on the subject.7/
2.11      Growth in manuacturing output and in the informal sector are expected to account for
most of the new employment in the next decade. In addition to the need for training new entrants
to the labor market, there are critical needs to retrain and upgrade the skills of existing workers
throughout the country. The prvosed project would build upon previous projects in the subsector
and would seek to strengthen the base of knowledge and experience in the provision of training
services through employers and the private sector. As such it would be primarily a demonstration
project and its results would be used to support more targeted future investments in the subsector.
2.12      A number of important measures to improve the effectiveness of the subsector would
be addressed through the project. The Bank proposes to continue to assist the Government in fnding
appropriate solutions to these and other related issues through continued sector work (para. 1.14),
policy dialogue and a series of lending operations as required.
7/     Vocational and Technical Education and Training: A World Bank Policy Paper, The
World Bank, May 1991.



-10-
m. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIEs
3.1       The proposed demonstration project has three key objectives: (a) to develop and
implment innovative industrial skills training schemes withir private enterprises in three provinces
(We&, Java, East Java and North Sumatra) for possible replication in other parts of the country in
the future, as part of an overall training program to promote productivity and efficiency of the
economy; (b) to support a special training program for unemployed university graduates in five
provinces (the three mentioned above plus South Sulawesi and Bali); and (c) to strengthen policy
making, research, planiing and management capabilities of the Ministry of Manpower (MOM). The
above objectives will be achieved by providing technical assistance, equipment, instructional
materials, staff development and funding support for industry based and demand-driven skills training
for various activities which could be grouped in two main components based on implementation
responsibilities: (a) provincial component; and (b) the Ministry of Manpower component.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND DESCRiTION
3.2       The proposed project would comprise the folkwiing components:
The Proincid Componento would establish a Provincial Training Fund (PTF) to implement the
following four subcomponents in the three participating provinces (para. 3.1):
(a)   start-up new training programs and activities in firms by establishing company group
training units (CGITUs);
(b)   start-up new training programs and activities in individual companies by supporting
them to employ new training managers, and provide limited staff and expenses to
support KADIN/APINDO9 to promote industry-based training;
(c)   support targeted programs to train job-seekers for identified vacancies with specified
placement targets in jobs related to the training; and
(d)   establish pilot programs to provide training and consulant services to small-scale
industries.
The Ministry of Manpower Componento would implement the following four subcomponents:
(a)   establish programs to train and develop young professional entrepreneurs for self
employment (PMP), primarily unemployed university graduates, in the five provinces
of Bali, East and West Java, South Sulawesi, and North Sumatra;
(b)   improve the local labor market information system;
(c)   support a staffdevelopment program to upgrade the capacity for management, research,
planning and policy development; and
(d)   prepare a PTF scheme for South Sulawesi.
8/     See Chart 1 for the Organizational Structure of the Provincial Government.
9/    KADIN (Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry)/APINDO (Indonesian
Employers' Association).
10/    See Chart 2 for the Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Manower.



-11-
Provincial Component (Total Estimated Cost US$29.3 million including contingencies)"
3.3       To enable a rapid and flexible response to changing labor market demands, the proposed
provincial component would establish, on a three-year demonstration basis, a Provincial Training
Fund (PTF), governed by a private sector-led Board, and implemented by a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), one each in the three provinces. (See Annex 3 for more details on the PITF - structure,
systems, and procedures). The PTF would finance training services to industry on a cost-sharing
basis and would be open to all eligible, public and private training providers. The proposed project
subcomponents to be implemented through the PTF are described below (paras. 3.4 - 3. i2).
3.4       Company Group Training Services. The objectives of this subcomponent are to
encourage companies to train their employees efficiently and effectively, and carry out high quality
training. This subcomponent would take a unique approach to encourage industry participation in
training through the establishment of CGTUs. The objectives would be to: (a) establish the training
function to be an important business activity in companies; (b) improve the training skills of training
managers and supervisors in industry; and (c) increase the capacity for training staff in industry.
CGTUs would be formed generally by medium-scale companies on a business cluster or on a
geographic basis. Each CGTU would typicaly serve about 40 member companies or a group
employment of about 4,000 people. The units themselves would be kept small in order to minimize
costs and would typica1ly have between three and five staff. CGTUs would regularly identify
company training needs, prepare training plans, implement training or arrange for training to be
provided on contract, and evaluate training programs. They would also assist companies to manage
training activities and to design and implement on-the-job training activities. Each Unit would be
funded through a contract with the PTF on a scaled cost-sharing basis (para. 3.26). Over the life
of the project, a total of 75 CGTUs would be established in the three participating provinces (15 in
North Sumatra and 30 each in East and West Java), covering about 3,000 firms with approximately
300,000 employees. (See Annex 4 for more details on the CGTU).
3.5       The subcomponent would support newly established, off-the-job, in-service training
programs impiemented inside or outside firms. In financing this subcomponent, the PTF would
appraise CGTU training proposals. To assist CGTUs and firms to prepare these training proposals,
technical advisory services would be available from the PTF. Upon receiving approval for PTF
financing, the CGTU would arrange for the company(s) to either conduct the agreed upon training
course or contract for the provision of the course to another organization (another firm, tertiary level
institution, BLK/KLK, private training institution, NGO, etc.). Using a contract approach would
ensure that all public and private training providers have an equal access to the market. It is
envisaged that the proposed training programs would place an emphasis on productivity improvement
through the training of managers, supervisors, technicians and maintenance staff. About 53,000
people, equivalent to 107,000 person-weeks, would be trained in three participating provinces.
3.6       Individual Company Training Services. To further encourage the development of the
training function and consequential training activities in companies, the subcomponent would also
implement a program to assist 350 individual companies (expected to be large or technologically
advanced) to employ new, full and part-time training managers for two years, on a scaled cost-
sharing basis in the three participating provinces. The objectives of employing training managers
and their responsibilities would be similar to those described for CGTUs in para. 3.4. In addition,
I/     See Chart 3 for the Organizational Stmcr.  -f the Provincial Training Fund Board and
Project Inplemenmion Unit.



-12-
the individual company training managers and CGTUs would develop linkages between industry and
public and private training providers. The formation of an association of training managers would
be encouraged through the project in the participating provinces.  The objectives of this
subcomponent are also to encourage companies to train efficiently and effectively, and to carry out
high quality training. The subcomponent would be implemented in the same way as that described
for the CGTUs in para. 3.5 above. Training proposals would be prepared by individual companies,
based on a short company business plan. Following appraisal and approval by the PTF, the training
manager would arrange for the training to be carried out. For reasons of efficiency, in some cases
such as specialized training or a widespread demand for a low volume of training from companies,
the PTF would arrange for the provision of training at the request of companies. About 19,000
people would be trained for an average of two weeks each in two provinces except for East Java,
which already has its training levy-grant system to fund these types of training activities.
3.7       The KADIN/APINDO wvould actively promote participation in the project within their
industrial memberships, assist industry subsectoral employer organizations to develop the capacity
to serve their members, and specifically promote the establishment of CGTUs by groups of
companies and the employment of training managers by companies (paras. 3.4 and 3.6). In each of
the three participating p--vinces, the project would support the KADIN/APINDO to employ two to
three staff, and would fiance operating expenses on a cost-sharing basis.
3.8       Targeted Training of Job-Seekers. The objectives of this subcomponent are to: (a)
demonstrate the benefits of demand-led training of job-seekers; (b) encourage the training providers
to learn how to reorganize the deli"ery of their training to meet private enterprise needs; and (c)
foster closer linkages between training providers and industry. In this scheme, the PMF would
receive proposals from training services providers (both public and private) for performance-based
contracts. Under this arrangement training service providers could request financing for traning
courses where employers have already agreed to employ the graduates. The PTF would only pay
the individual unit training cost for course graduates who receive employment in a job related to the
training received. However, as an incentive, if the service provider could fmd related employment
for 85% of its graduates, the total cost of the course would be financed by the PTF. The volume
of this training would be limited to 800 job-seekers ( 13,000 person-weeks) in order to keep the focus
of the project on the main objective of in-service training.
3.9       Small Enterprise TrIning and Advisory Services.  The objective of this
subcomponent is to assist selected small companies to grow by: (a) supplying customized training
and consultant services focused on owners as key persons; and (b) developing the management
capacity of the officers of associations and groups of small companies to assist their members to
develop their businesses. The subcomponent will aim to generate financial support from large
companies through the Foster Parent Program (para. 1.20), from banks, government, and small
enterprises themselves, that would increase the likelihood of sustainability after the project
completion. This subcomponent would provide training and advisory services for selected small-
scale manufacturing industries, mostly in the modern, formal sector. On the average, four days of
expert advisory services would be made available over a six month period to owners of small
businesses. In cases of similar need and where companies agree, consultant services would be
supplied to groups. This customized advisory service would be funded by the project on a cost-
sharing basis. About 4,000 small companies or groups would receive advisory services (see Annex 5
for more details).
3.10      At the discretion of the PTF Board, industrial training services may also be provided
to groups that have clearly identified needs on the normal 100% funding basis. Companies would



-13-
be accessed for training and advisory services through organized groups (SENTRA), cooperatives
(KOPINKRA) or directdy with the assistance of the MOI and Ministry of Cooperatives and Small
Enterprises. About 10,000 person-weeks of training (about 5,000 employees) would be provided in
the three participating provinces.
3.11      The provincial component would also finance some domestic and overseas training for
private and public officials to study: (a) the financing of training in other countries; (b) the respective
roles of government and the private sector in the management of industrial training; (c) successful
models of management for training and levy-grant funds; and (d) successful schemes for industrial
in-service training. To achieve these objectives, there would be overseas short-term training (two
weeks) for two groups of ten senior officials from each of the project provinces, and 45 person-
months of overseas short-term training (three monthas) for the three provinces. These officials
include staff of employer's organizations, staff of associations of private training institutes, provincial
public officials involved in industrial skills development, and provincial staff of the Ministry of
Cooperatives and Small Enterprises, MOI and MOM. The project would also finance international
and national consultants, equipment, and training costs on a cost-sharing basis. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to carry out PTF activities in accordance with operating procedures and
eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.1 (a)).
3.12      The PTF Board would establish maximum levels of allowable cost for each type of
training service and would only finance off-the-job training proposals up to that limit. (Due to te
difficulty of monitoring the costs, on-the-job training would not be supported by the fund). The
monitoriDng and auditing procedures, and impact studies are described in paras. 3.32 and 3.34
respectively.
Ministr of Manpower Component (Total Estimated Cost: US$10.4 million Induding
contingencies)
3.13        Young Professionals Entrepreneurship Development Progr      P2   During
the past several years, the Government has become particularly concerned about fte rising
unemployment of university and college graduates. The objective of this proposed subcomponent
would be to test several approaches to address the above issue within two basic schemes of service
delivery (see Annex 6 for more details).
3.14      The PMP for self-employment would be implemented in five provinces - Bali, East and
West Java, South Sulawesi, and North Sumatra. In each province, two schemes, a short-term and
a medium-term traiing program, would be implemented. It is estimated that the various schemes
would train a total of about 5,500 university graduates (SI) to become smaU business owners and
managers. The schemes feature a university-based selection of unemployed university graduates who
would participate either in 15 days of training (short-term option), under the first scheme, or 45 days
of training (medium-term option), under the second scheme. Both options would be coupled with
the same 12 months of field-based counseling and technical follow-up services. The short-term and
medium-term training schemes would train about 4,500 and 1,000 unemployed graduates,
respectively.
12/    See Chart 4 for the Organiational Strucure of the Young Professional Entrepreneurship
Development Program.



-14-
3.15      Based upon existing performance data, it is estimated that about 70% of the persons
completing the PMP would be actually successful in starting small businesses. The ILO project data
on small business development in Indonesia suggest that an average of about three jobs would be
generated with each smanl business established.  Assuming a 70%  establishment rate, the
subcomponent would be expected to generate about 11,500 new jobs over a three to five year period.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that a guaranteed loan repayment scheme
would be established not later than September 31, 1994, for graduates having completed the short-
term and medium-term training programs, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank,
including loans for capital for the development of small businesses of up to Rp 2 miilion for
graduates of the short-term training model and Rp 5 million for graduates of the medium term
training model (para. 6.1 (b)). The criteria for the loan repaymehit would be drawn up by the
Government based on the normal commercial banking criteria for banks to make business loans in
Indonesia. The Indonesian banks partcipating in the scheme would apply their normal standards in
appraising the business plans submitted by the trained entrepreneurs. Each parficipant would have
to self-finance at least 20% of the total financing package.
3.16      Under the proposed subcomponent, the Informaton System for Self-Employment would
also be developed. The study would recommend the types of information and approaches required
to serve the needs of entrepreneurs and support organizations interested in entrepreneur development
and would make a recommendation about the target users for the information. The University of
Udayana in Bali would be the site for the demonstration of the system.
3.17      To support the development of the subcomponent, the proposed project would finance
a contractor (four person-years of international and six person-years of domestic consultanmts),
selected to assist in the establishment of the province-based Private Sector Management Committees
(PSMC) and Coordination Units, development of province-level policies and pi cedures, training of
about 50 key persons (total of about 125 training weeks) and the implementation of planned training
programs in the five provinces. The TA team would be located at the University of Udayana which
served as the project site and lead university for the UNDP/ILO pilot project that developed the
short-term training option described in Annex 6. As such, it already has trained personnel and
demonstrated a capacity to serve as the lead university in the planned effort. Early in the project,
the MOM would appoint a full-time coordinator who would be trained to take full responsibility for
implementation in the third year of the project. In addition, the proposed project would finance
equipment, instructional materials and project coordinators. During negotiations, the Govermnent
provided assurances that: by August 31, 1994, (a) PSMCs and Provincial Coordination Units would
be established; and (b) the detailed action plan for the implementation of PMP would be prepared
and sent to the Bank for review and comments (para. 6.1 (c)).
3.18      Local Labor Market Information System (LLMI). The main objective is to support
the development of a system that would allow for systematic analysis of the labor market and would
help design, monitor and evaluate labor market policies and programs. The developed information
system would encompass: (a) the collection and integration of information from all available sources
in other ministries, in the private sector, and MOM at central, regional and district levels; (b) the
promoton through agreement with the Central Bureau of Statistcs (BPS) of increased coverage of
labor market informaton, and improvements in data relevancy in all national surveys; (c) the
extension of the current regional annual labor force surveys, implemented by the Provincial Planning
Board (BAPPEDA) through BPS, to sample all districts of the project provinces; (d) the
development of annual establishment surveys to be implemented by MOM through BPS at the
regional level; (e) the analysis and production of semi-annual reports o' information relevant to the
national and provincial levels; and (f) a program to disseminate this infonnation at these levels. The



-15-
LLMIS would provide relevant information to BAPPEDAs to assist them with regional manpower
planning. The project would implement four demonstrations of the LLMIS in the respective
provinces of West Java, East Java, North Sumatra, and Soutfi Sulawesi. It would also include a pilot
program to develop the capacity of 13 MOM District Offices (KANDEP) to improve their
registration and placement services to employers and job-seekers. Tbis system was developed on
a pilot basis under the ongoing MDTP.
3.19      The subcomponent would provide two person-years of international and three person-
years of local consultant services to assist MOM staff with the planning, related training and
implementation of the four demonstration activities. The subcomponant would include overseas
short-term 'raining for 40 participants (two weeks duration) and 1,200 person-weeks of local short-
term training. The required international higher degree fellowships are included in the staff
developme.;x subcomponent (para. 3.20). In addition, the subcomponent would finance all training
and the provision of communications equipment (province and district level) and computers
(province, district, and central levels).
3.20      Staff Development. The objective is to strengthen the capacity of the MOM staff for
policy development, managent, and research through overseas and domestic fellowship programs.
The Ministry is being reorganized and there is a shortage of well-qualifed staff at upper and middle
management levels. It has also been determined that the current lack of staff development is a
limiting factor in the organizational development of the Ministry. The project would fnance about
60 person-years of international doctorate and master's fellowships. The project would also finance
about 140 person-years of domestic doctorate and master's programs and 600 person-months of
short-term domestic trainig services for candidates of good ability but with inadequate capacity in
the foreign language. Fields of study would be chosen on the basis of identfied staff needs to
complete the reorganization of dte MOM. The proposed project would finance technical assistance
for the management of fellowships in overseas countries. These long-term overseas fellowships
would be managed in Indonesia by the Office of Overseas Training (OTO) in coordination with
MOM, but the funds for these programs would be provided by the proposed project. During
negotiatons, the Government provided assurance that for long-term domestic training and overseas
fellowships: (a) selection critenia would be acceptable to the Bank; (b) a post or cluster of posts
would be identified for each candidate at the time of selection; and (c) upon their return, graduates
would be assigned to these posts (para. 6.1 (d)).
3.21      Preparation of a Provincal Traiig  Fund Scheme for South Sulawesi. The
Government has selected South Sulawesi as the next province to implement a PIF scheme following
the completion of the proposed project. As such, it is appropriate to lay the groundwork for the
implementation of this scheme within the proposed projecs A number of studies and surveys would
be conducted to assist in the preparation process. The terms of reference (TORs) for these studies
and surveys would be prepared during the first year of the proposed project and the studies would
be implemented during the second and third years. Concurrent with the planned studies, key staff
from South Sulawesi would be trained in project activities through training programs being
implemented in the other three PTF project provinces. This traming would include the operation of
CGTUs, traiing of industrial training managers and instructors, the operation of the PTF, and study
of the levy-grant scheme in East Java. About 30 persons from South Sulawesi would be trained for
an average of two weeks each. The project would finance internaional and domestic consultants,
studies and surveys, and training costs.



-16.
3.22      Consultant Services. The proposed project design calls for both international and
domestic consultant services in the two project components. The primary objectives are to assist
institutional capacity building, policy development, and project ilnplemenQation. A sumunary of the
required consultant services in person-month for each project component is presented in Table 3.1
(see Annex 7 for details).
Table 3.1: Consultant Services Requirenent,
Component/Subcomponent                            International    Nationat
(person-month) (person-month)
Provincial Component
Small Enterprise Training and Advisory Services              ---          972
Project Administration                                       108           ---
Sub-total                                                   108           972
Ministra of Manpower Component
Young Professional Entrepreneur Development Program (PMP)    48           252
Local Labor Market Information System                        24            36
Preparation of PTF in South Sulawesi                          6            24
Project Administration                                       --            36
Sub-total                                                     78          348
TOTAL                                                    186         1,320
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.23      At the national level, a Proect Steering Commitee would be established to facilitate the
overall implementation of the project and it would be responsible for policy coordination only.
Secretariat services to the Committee would be provided by the MOM PIU. The Provincial
components would be implemented by the Governors through PTF Boards established in each of the
respective provinces. The Board would be comprised of equal membership from both the private
and the government sectors and would have a Chairperson appointed from the private sector by the
Governor. In each Board, a PIU would also be established to support the administrative
requirements of the Board and to Implement and monitor the various component activities. The PIU
Director would also be selected from the private sector by the Board and appointed by the Governor.
The PIU for the provincial project components would have a government employee as the treasurer.
The Ministy of Manpower component would be implemented by a PIU established in the MOM's
newly-established Board of Planning and Development to implement and monitor the component
activities through close cooperation with the sub-directorates responsible for the project activities.
Within the five provinces, the PMP would be managed and implemented by Private Sector
Management Committees under the guidance of the MOM PIU. The committees would be
comprised of equal membership from both the private and the government sectors and would have
a Chairperson appointed from the private sector by the Governor. The Provincial Coordinators (one
in each province) would support the administrative and technical requirements of the committees.
They would be employed through the provisions of the technical assistance contract. Where there



-17-
is limited capacity to implement the various activities required, the PIF Board and MOM would
contract with consultants, both domestic and international, to provide research and advisory services.
(Annex 8 shows responsible agencies and the departments involved in the provincial and MOM
project components).
3.24      Responsibility for overall coordination of activities and for liaison with the Bank would
rest with the PIU Directors (MOM and three PTF provinces), who would: (a) monitor and coordinate
disbursement of the loan; (b) provide semi-annual progress reports to the Project Steering Committee
and then to the Bank; (c) raise issues requiring attention including provision of the government
counterpart funds; (d) submit withdrawal applications to the Bank; (e) arrange for timely audits of
project accounts; (f) prepare the project completion report; and (g) participate directly in the
management of local and overseas staff development programs and TA services, and project
evaluation studies and related project performance monitoring activities.
3.25      Cost Sharing. Cost sharing would be a key element in the provincial components
financed through the PTF scheme under the proposed project. The objective of this effort is to
ensure that industry would finance in-service training after the project is completed. The proportion
of costs financed by the project would be 80% in year one, 60% in year two, and 30% in year three
for the CGTUs (paras. 3.4 and 3.5), in-service training for large and medium fms (para. 3.6), and
for the training advisory services for small firms (para. 3.9). Employment of training managers in
frms (para. 3.6) would be supported at 50% for two years to provide enough time to demonstrate
their benefit to the company which would then continue to bear their full costs. Training for job-
seekers (para. 3.8) and small firms (para. 3.9) would be 100% funded, the former being subject to
placement performance.
3.26      The PMP, a MOM  component, would be 100% funded, but participants would
contribute a specified amount of their own money to be used to help capitalize their business.
3.27      Status of Project Preparation.  Original project proposals were subsequently
reconsidered by the new Minister of Manpower who decided that certain subcomponents should be
postponc for future investment consideration pending a review of the BLKs/KLKs (para. 1.14).
The postponed subcomponents were: (a) institutional development of the BLKs/KLKs and the
National Productivity Center of MOM; (b) strengthening the implementation of skills testing by
MOM; and (c) assisting private proprietary institutions to provide technical training to industriai
standards. Steps have being taken to provide funding from the ongoing MDTP, for key pre-project
activities to facilitate efficient implementation of the proposed project. Preparation activities for the
provincial components include: PTF operating criteria and procedures, TORs for consultants, and
firm plans for the first year of implementation including identified clients. Preparation activities for
the MOM components include: (a) detailed design and implementation of the preparation of PMP
with ILO assistance; (b) the first year implementation action plan for the local labor market
information system; and (c) pre-departure foreign language training for overseas higher degree
fellows who are due to depart at the beginning of the project. TORs for international consultants,
and FY1994/95 project budgets for the MOM and provincial components have been prepared and
sent to the Bank for review and comments. The PTF Boards have been established, comprising
equal membership from the private and government sectors. The PTF Bo2rd Chairpersons and PIU
Directors have been appointed from the private sector, while the PIU Director for the MOM
component has been appointed. The operating guidelines for a special funding channelling
mechaiiism (.SPABPIBLN) for PTF have been prepared, which would be implemented by the central
government in cooperation with the three provincial governments. The project design benefitted



-18-
from experience with the ongoing MDTP and a report on the PTF scheme, prepared by international
consultants.
3.28      Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a period
of three years starting July 1, 1994 and ending June 30, 1997.  A project activities and
implementation schedule (see Annex 9) and detailed project cost estimates (see para. 4.1) would
serve as the basis for project implementation planning and would be updated annually by the PIU
Directors in cooperation with Bank Staff.  The closing date of the project would be
December 31, 1997.
3.29      Environment. The environmental impact of the proposed project is expected to be
neutral (Class C). There are no civil works finced in the project.  Where appropriate,
environmental awareness and occupational safety would be included in new curricula and prepared
instructional materials used in training programs.
3.30      Impact on Women. The Goverment intends to make arrangements that the SDP will
place a high priority on the provision of services for women. The PTF boards and PIUs would be
provided with instructions and guideline for the provision of services for women. The PMP TA
contractor would also employ a full-time female program officer to support the implementation of
women-oriented programs within the five provinces. This is included in the TOR.
D. PRoJEcT MoNfTORfNG AND EVALUATION
3.31      Performance Indicators. Detailed performance indicators (See Annex 10), which were
agreed with the Government during the appraisal mission, would be used as a basis for reporting.
Monitoring and auditing systems would be implemented by all PIUs. The PIUs would audit quality
through spot checks on training activities throughout the project duration. All training fund contracts
would contain performance standards and specified documentation to be completed before fnal
payment is made. The PTF and Provincial PIUs would establish a data base of training information
to be shared with the labor market information system (para. 3.18). Given that the proposed
demonstration project is located in five provinces (involving fte MOM, provincial govermnents and
the private sector) and that the measures to be undertaken are innovative, the annual Bank
supervision requirements are likely to exceed the norm by up to 100% (see Annex 11 for planned
supervision schedule).
3.32      Progress Reports and Annual Review. Semi-annual progress reports would be
prepared by each PIU. The reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than April 30 and
October 31 of each project year (para. 6.1 (e)). Data from the performance indicators would be
incorporated in the progress reports, as appropriate. The reports would contain a review of the
previous activities against the annual plan and make recommendations to improve service delivery.
Each year, a seminar would be held to discuss these reports and the plan for the next year. The
Bank would participate in the seminars.
3.33      Impact Studies. To measure project impact, evaluation/impact studies of the CGTU
and individual company training services, small enterprise training and advisory services and the
PMP would be contracted by the MOM PIU. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurance that: (a) TORs for the project evaluation studies (see Annex 12) would be sent to the Bank
by June 30, 1995 for review and comments; (b) such studies would be carried out not later than
December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996; and (c) the findings and recommendations would be
furnished to the Bank for review and comments (para. 6.1 (f)).



-19-
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cosrs
Summary of Costs
4.1         The total cost of the project is estimated at US$39.7 million equivalent (Rp 83.6 billion),
including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the
estimated costs by project component and category of expenditure, respectively. Detailed project
costs are given in Annex 13.
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
Rp Billion       US$ Million             %  % Total
Foreign  Base
Component                            Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Exchange Costs
Provincial Comwonent
Ciompany Group Training Services       23.4  4.9  28.3    11.1  2.3  13.4         17    38
Individual Company Training Services    9.0  1.6  10.6    4.3  0.7  5.0           15    14
Targeted Job-seeker Training            1.5  0.3  1.8    0.7  0.1  0.8            15      2
Small Enterprise Training & Advisory Services  4.0  0.7  4.7  1.9  0.4  2.3       15      6
Project Administration                  4.3  4.5  8.8    2.0  2.2  4.2            Sl    12
Sub-total                          4.2  12.0  54.2   20.0  5.7  25            22    74
Ministry of ManIpower Com_onent
Young Professional Entrepreneur
Development Program (PMP)              6.0  2.0  8.0       2.9  1.0  3.9         25    11
Local Labor Market Information System   2.1  2.1  4.2       1.0  1.0  2.0         50      6
Staff Training & Development            2.2  3.2  5.4       1.1  1.5  2.6         59      7
Preparation of PTF in South Sulawesi    0.3   0.2  0.5      0.1  0.1  0.2         37      1
Evaluation Studies & Technical Assistance  0.8  0.1  0.9    0.3  0.1  0.4          15     1
Project Administration                  0.4  0.1  0.5       0.2  0.0  0.2          15     1
Sub-total                           11.8  7.7  19.5     5.6  3.7  9.3          40    26
Total Base Costs                      54.0  19.7  73.7    25.6  9.4  35.0        27   100
Physical Contingencies                  2.7   1.1  3.8      1.3  0.5  1.8         29      5
Price Contingencies                     5.3  0.8  6.1       2.5  0.4  2.9          13     8
Total Costs/a                         62.0  216  8L       29.4  10.3  39         26   113
/a Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.3 million equivalent.



-20-
Table 4.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Rp Billion        US$ Million            %  % Total
Foreign Base
Category of Expenditure               Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Exchange  Costs
Equipment                                0.7   2.8  3.5      0.3  1.4  1.7           82     5
Furniture                                0.2  0.1  0.3       0.1  0.0  0.1          27      0
Technical Assistance
International Consultants             0.5   4.6  5.1       0.2  2.2  2.4          90     7
National Consultants                   3.3   0.6  3.9      1.6  0.3  1.9          15     5
Research and Survey                    1.4  0.2   1.6      0.7  0.1  0.8          15     2
Fellowships                              0.3   2.9  3.2       0.1   1.4  1.5         90     4
Training and Workshops
Overseas Training                      0.1   1.1  1.2      0.0  0.5  0.5          90     2
In-Country Training                    1.4  0.2   1.6      0.7  0.1  0.8          15     2
In-Country Workshops                   1.2  0.2   1.4      0.6  0.1  0.7          15     2
Entrepreneur Development Programs
PMP Training Services                  1.4  0.3   1.7      0.7  0.1  0.8          15     2
PMP Guaranteed Loan Repayment Scheme   0.9   0.1   1.0     0.4  0.1  0.5          15      1
Provincial Training Fund
PTF Training Services                 26.0  4.6  30.6    12.3  2.2  14.5          15    41
PTF Technical Services                 7.8   1.4  9.2      3.7  0.6  4.3          15    13
Project Management/a                     8.8   0.6  9.4       4.2  0.3  4.5           7    13
Total Base Costs                       54 0  19 7  73.7    25 6   94  35.0         27   100
Physical Contingencies                   2.7   1.1  3.8       1.3  0.5  1.8          29     5
Price uontingencies                      5.3  0.8  6.1        2.5  0.4  2.9          13     8
Total Costs/b                          62.0  21.6  83.6    29 4  10.3  39.7        26   113
/a Inclusive of expenditures for travel, consumable materials, honoraria, and operation and maintenance.
/b Inclusive of identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.3 million equivalent.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2          Baseline Costs. Baseline costs are estimated at February 1994 prices. Equipment and
furniture costs are based on current prices for similar imported or locally available items. Costs for
intemational and domestic consultants are in line with recent education and training projects for
appropriately qualified experts. Overseas fellowships are estimated at about US$52,000 per trainee
for M.A. programs and about US$77,000 per trainee for Ph.D. programs. Overseas short-term
training is estimated at US$7,600 per person for a three-month courses and US$4,500 per participant
for two-week courses. Unit costs for in-country tramiing range from about US$900 per trainee for
sihort-term programs (3 months) to about US$14,000 per trainee for Ph.D. programs. In-country



-21-
workshop costs vary widely depending on the type of training being given and its location, but
average US$77 per training week. Costs for entrepre.;eur training services were estimated based on
the experiences of similar UNDP/ILO projects in Indonesia. Costs for PTF training services were
estimated at an average of US$152 per trainee for two-week courses, while costs for PTF technical
services staff were estimated in line with private sector employment costs in Indonesia. Project
management includes expenditures for honoraria, travel, consumable materials, and operation and
mnaintenance, which are necessary for the implementation of the project.
4.3       Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies (US$1.8 million) represent 5% and
price contingencies (US$2.9 million) 8% of baseline costs. Physical contin ,encies of 10% have been
allocated for overseas and local fellowships, 5 % for all other categories, including office and training
equipment, TA, study tours and workshops, entrepreneur development programs, and training fund
programs. Price contingencies have been calculated at 5.5% per year for local costs and at 2.5%
for foreign costs for all categories throughout.
4.4        Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$10.3 million
(representing 26% of total project costs) and are based on a detailed analysis of expenditures under
similar projects in Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for the major expenditure categories
are estimated as follows: (a) equipment, international consultants, overseas fellowships and training -
90%; (b) furniture - 30 %; and (c) national consultants, research and survey, in-country training and
workshops, entrepreneur development programs, and PTF training and technical services - 15%.
4.5       Taxes and Duties. Taxes and duties are estimated at Rp 0.6 billion (US$0.3 million)
based on the current 10% value added tax on all contracts for equipment and other goods and
materials.
B. FINANCING
4.6        The total project cost of US$39.7 million equivalent would be financed by a proposed
Bank loan of US$27.7 million equivalent, covering about 70% of total project costs excluding taxes
and reserved procurement of vehicles (89% of foreign and 64% of local expenditures). The
Government from its annual budget, along with participating private companies, would finance the
remaining costs of US$12.0 million equivalent (30% of total project costs excluding taxes and
reserved procurement of vehicles, and 30% of total project costs when taxes and reserved
procurement of vehicles are included) (Table 4.3).
Financial Sustainabilit
4.7        The project would significantly increase the training capacity and activities in
manufacturing industry in the participating provinces. To financially sustain this expected increase
in training, the Government has recently granted the provinces the authority to implement an
employer levy-grant scheme to pay for the above mentioned training. The East Java Provincial
Government is already implementing such a scheme. The North Sumatra and West Java Provincial
Governments have decided to wait until experience has been gained under this demonstration project
before establishing their schemes. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that significant cost recovery
would be available through the levy-grant schemes. The flexibilty of the project design would also
provide the Government with opporunities, at the conclusion of the project, to select the more
effective and sustainable approaches to be replicated. Less sustainable approaches would be
discarded and would not affect the issue of sustainability. The scale of future operations could then
be adjusted for compatibility with the levy-grant schemes.



-22-
4.8       During negotiations, the Government agreed: (a) to furnish to the Bank for comments
a proposal for the establishment of a levy-grant scheme for the fiancing of training of staff of
manufacturing enterprises in West Java and North Sumatra, and for the amendment of the scheme
in East Java, not later than December 31, 1996; and (b) to implement the new and amended levy-
grant schemes in the project provinces not later than June 30, 1997, taking into account the Bank's
comments on the criteria for such schemes (para. 6.1 (g)).
Table 4.3: Flnancing Plan
(US$ million)
GOI &                              IBRD
Private    IBRD        Total       Share
Companies/a                           (%)
Equipment
Computers and Traiing Equipment        0.1         1.4       1.5         90
Vehicles                               0.2         0.0       0.2          0
Furiture                                0.2         0.0        0.2          0
Technical Assistance                    0.0         5.3        5.3        100
Fellowships                             0.0         1.6        1.6        100
Training and Workshops                  0.7         1.5        2.2         70
Entrepreneur Development Programs
PMP Training Services                  0.4         0.5       0.9         50
PMP Guaranteed Loan Repayment Scheme  0.5         0.0        0.5          0
Provincial Training Fund
PTF Traii  Services                    4.7        11.1      15.8         70
PTF Technical Services                 0.0         4.8       4.8        100
Project Management                      4.9         0.0        4.9          0
Unallocated                             0.3         1.5        1.8         -
Total                                  12.0       27.7       39.7         70
/a Private companies partcipatng in the provincial component witl share the training costs based on the formula described
in para. 3.26 and Annex 3.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.9        The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement in the following expenditure
categories (Table 4.4):
(a)  Equipment* compu-ters and trabing equipment (US$1.5 million equivalent).
Computers and prirers would be combined into large packages and procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Due to the variety
of items to be procured in several different provices, training equipment would be
procured locally in each province, with the contracts, not exceeding US$50,000 for each
package, up to an aggregate limit of US$430,000, and would be purchased through local



-23-
shopping by obtaining at least three price quotations. GOI would finance the purchase
of vehicles for the three PTF PIUs (paras. 4.12 and 6.2);
(b)  Technical Assistance (US$5.9 million equivalent).  National and international
consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants. To cultivate quality, research contracts would be awarded based on the
criteria of relevance of the topic and qualifications of the parties selected on a
competitive basis acceptable to the Bank. Leasing of cars required by consultants would
be covered in the applicable consultant contract;
(c)  Fellowships (US$1.7 million equivalent). Placement of candidates in foreign institutions
would be made on the basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs, and
prior experience in the provision of the services required. The awards would be made
in accordance with Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(d)  Taining and workshops (US$2.3 million equivalent). Overseas short-term training and
in-country training and workshops would be conducted for government and private
sector personnel who would participate in the subcomponents of the project. Training
contracts would be awarded to local consultants, firms, and public training institutes,
in accordance with Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(e) Entrepreneur training services (US$0.9 million equivalent). Entrepreneur training
services will be conacd  to key universities and other universities in the five
participating provinces on the basis of an operational plan prepared by each institution.
As this would be a sole source contract, prior review would be required; and
(f)  PTF tahning and technical serices (US$21.6 million equivalent). PTF training
services would involve traiing contraus to public and private firms, employer
associations, CGTUs, and public and private training institutions based upon criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Such contracts would be awarded on the basis
of local bidding procedures with training proposals from a minimum of three pre-
qualified training providers, and the least cost proposal should be selected. Given the
small amount of each contract, which would be awarded when possible to include a
number of training courses, (each training course would cost US$2,600 for two weeks
on average), and that sometmes special tailored training would be required, some
contracts may be awarded on the basis of sole sourcing. Such contracts would also be
performance-based with disbursement provided only for the criteria specified in
contracts. PTF technical services would include contracts for domestic technical
services including technical CGTU staff, awarded based on critena and procedures
acceptable to the Bank, which would include agreed-upon adverdzing, selection, and
approval procedures for the recruitment of contracted staff.
4.10      Procurement Review. The following are the guidelines regarding procurement review:
(a)  All contracts for equipment estimated to cost US$200,000 or more would be subject to
prior review by the Bank, whereas contracts under US$200,000 in value would be
subject to random post-review;



-24-
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement                             Total cost
procedures                             including
Category of expenditure                LCB             Other /a       N.B.F. /b       contingencies
Equipment
Computers & Training Equipment 1.1                  0.4                               1.5
(1.0)          (C4)                              (1.4)
Vehicles                                                            0.2              0.2
(0.0)            (0-0)
Furniture                                                              0.2               0.2
(0.0)            (0.0)
Consultants, Studies and Training
Implemeation Support                                0.9                              0.9
(0.9)                            (0.9)
Institutional Capacity Building                     7.8                              7.8
(7.2)                            (7.2)
Policy Studies                                      1.2                               1.2
(1.2)                            (1.2)
Entrepreneur Development Programs                      0.9             0.5               1.4
(0.5)          (0.0)             (0.5)
Provincial Training Fund                              21.6                              21.6
(16.6)                           (16.6)
Project Management                                                     4.9               4.9
(0.0)            (0.0)
TIll                                    1.1           32.8             5.8              39.7
(1.0)         (26.7)           (0.0)           (27.7)
Note:        Figures in patentiesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank. N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
ba          Includes local shopping, selection of constltants following Bank guidelines, and selection of fellows using
Govenmen administrative procedurs acceptable to the Bank, selection of timng and technical service
providers based on procedures acceptable to the Ban
/b          Includes vehicles as reserved procement.
(b)   Except for those in para. (c) below, all consultant contracts valued at or over
US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank, whereas contracts under
US$100,000 in value would be subject to random post-review. However, this exception
to prior Bank review would not apply to the TOR for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined 1w the Bank, or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
(c) The first pre-qualification and the first contract in each of the three provinces for the
TFF programs would be subject to prior review by the Bank;



-25-
(d) All contracts for overseas fellowships, research and survey, consultants, and technical
audits would be subject to prior review by the Bank;
(e)  In-country long-term and short-term training would be subject to random post-review
by the Bank;
(f)   Generic implementation documents, including operational systems and procedures,
TOR, job descriptions, pay scales and fee schedules, and sample contract forms would
be prepared by the Government no later than June 30, 1994, and furnished to the Bank
for comments;
(g)  A time table to complete the review of documents scheduled for prior review during
project implementation would be prepared by the Government, no later than June 30,
1994, and furnished to the Bank for approval; and
(h)  Post reviews of SOEs would be conducted on the following basis: (i) 20% of contracts
valued between $25,000 and $100,000; (ii) 10% of contracts with firms, valued below
$25,000; and (iii) contracts with individuals, valued below $5,000 would be reviewed
on a discretionary basis. These post reviews would also be carried out by the
Government through the technical audits.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.11      The proposed loan of US$27.7 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of
about 3 years (Annex 14). Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1997, the
Loan Closing Date. The disbursement schedule is based on the implementation schedule and the
disbursement profile for education and training projects in Indonesia. It is somewhat faster than the
standard profile for education projects in Indonesia because this is a three-year demonstration project
with well-designed pre-project activities, which will facilitate the smooth implementation of the
project. Disbursements estimated for FY95 are based on the proposed initial deposit into the project
Special Account and replenishment. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Computers & Training Equipment:    100% of foreign and local (ex-factory) expenditures and
65% local expenditures
Technical Assistance:            100% of total expenditures
Fellowships:                     100% of total expenditures
Training and Workshops:           70% of total expenditures
Entrepreneur Training Services:   50% of total expenditures
PTF Training Services:            70% of total expenditures
PTF Technical Services:          100% of total expenditures
4.12      The condition for disbursement against the category of exp'nditures for equipment would
be that GOI has procured vehicles for the three PTF PIUs (paras. 4.9 (a) and 6.2). Disbursements
from the loan for all contracts above US$200,000 in value and TA contracts (including research and
studies) above US$100,000 would be made against full documentation. All other disbursements
including overseas fellowships would be made against Statements of Expenditures for which relevant
documents would be retained by responsible agencies and made available for review as requested by
visiting Bank missions. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established at Bank
Indonesia, or at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, to be used by the specified Government
project authorities under the direction of the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance,



-26-
following established procedures. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and
local expenditures for all categories. Upon Loan Effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment
of the Special Account, the Bank, on receipt of an application from the Director General of the
Budget would make an initial deposit of up to US$2.0 million, which is based on the need for funds
to cover these expenditures on average for a period of four months. Application for replenishment
of the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or when 20% of the initial
deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.
E. AccouNrs, AUIITS, AND REPORTS
4.13      Designated Government authorities would establish project accounts for all project
expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and
documentation supporting the Statements of Expenditures and Special Account would be maintained
separately. The PIU in MOM would consolidate and prepare the financial report. The financial
statements and fiancial report for each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.1 (h)). The audit report would contain a separate opinion by the
auditors as to whether the Statements of Expenditures, submitted during the year together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals. Certified copies of the fmancial reports on the project for each fiscal year,
together with the auditors' statement, would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not
later than nine months after the end of each government fiscal year. Within six months after the
completion of disbursements, the MOM would submit a project completion report to the Bank.
4.14      Technical Audits. The PTF and PMP operating procedures include detailed procedures
for control and monitoring of the implementation process. The full responsibility for the control of
the operations lies with the PTF Board and PIU, and the PMP Private Sector Management
Committees, respectively, which, however, wouid be supported by other measures such as the
Government financial audits and Bank review procedures and supervision missions. Because of the
very large number of small contracts in this project (para. 4.9), during negotiations, the Government
agreed to carry out technical audits of the training services provided through the PTF and the
operation of the PMP. The technical audit would focus on the whole or part of the contract approval
and execution process, from the generation and approval of a training proposal, to the
implementation and monitoring of the training. It would also include post-review of the
documentation for completed contracts and it would cover technical and financial aspects. An
independent, qualified firm, recruited from outside the project provinces, would be contracted by
GOI to carry out these audits using a two-person team. The terms of reference for these audits
would be prepared by GOI, and these and the qualifications of the consulting firm must be acceptable
to the Bank. The technical audits, acceptable to the Bank, would be carried out every six months
during the implementation of the project, commencing not later than February 1, 1995 and copies
of the audit reports would be f, nished to the Bank for information (para. 6.1 (i)).



-27-
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1        Benefits. The major benefit would be the demonstration of provincial skill development
mechanisms to implement a variety of innovative approaches to industry-based and industry-led skill
training. Two provinces (North Sumatra and West Java) would also utilize the lessons learned from
the project's demonstration efforts to establish employer levy-grant schemes that would contribute
to sustaining the above-mentioned skill development funds. During the project, approximately
77,000 existing workers (53,000 through CGTUs, 19,000 through non-CGTUs, as well as 5,000
employees of small enterprises) would be trained in a variety of short-term programs. It is also
estimated that about 800 job-seekers would be trained. Other direct and indirect benefits include:
(a) increased awareness of the importance of training by employers; (b) increased capacity for skill
training in the participating firms; and (c) improved linkages between labor, firms and training
providers resulting from an increased participation of employers in quality improvements in industry-
based training and dissemination of relevant labor market information. In addition to the above, the
project would also test two schemes that would provide training, counseling and capital support to
about 5,500 young professionals (university graduates) who want to establish small businesses.
Existing studies suggests that this component would create about 11,500 new jobs within the newly
established businesses. The project would also enhance productivity of an esfimated 4,000 small
businesses through targeted advisory services. At the central level, the project would improve
planning and policy maling capacity and industrial training support capacity of the MOM through
the provision of 200 short-term technical fellowships and about 100 long-term graduate fellowships.
5.2       Risks. The current shortage of available financing to support the activities in the project
suggests that there may be a risk that some of the project activities may not be sustained following
the completion of the project. In order to reduce this potential risk, the new and amended employer
levy-grant schemes to partially pay for the above mentioned activities would be implemented in the
three PTF provinces not later than June 30, 1997. The activities of this project span a wide
geographical area and depend on action at various levels of government administration and between
the provincial governments, the MOM and the private sector. Therefore, effective coordination and
management are especially important to the attainment of project objectives. To address these
concerns, an effort has been made to reduce the complexity of the implementation process. Local
and foreign consultants would also be used to supplement the implementation capacity of the PIUs.
Also important, the project must have the strong commitment of private sector employers. To
address this issue, the Governors of West Java, East Java and North Sumatra would appoint private
sector representatives to chair their respective PTF Boards. They would also appoint PIU directors
from the private sector. It is also agreed that the PTF Boards would be comprised of 50%
representation from the private sector. The project would also establish industry promotion units in
the PlUs to inform firms about project services and to solicit their participation in the various
training programs.



-28-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that:
(a)  PTF activities would be carried out in accordance with operating procedures and
eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(b)  A guaranteed loan repayment scheme would be established not later than September 31,
1994, for graduates having completed the short-term and medium-term training
programs, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, including loans for capital
for the development of small businesses of up to Rp 2 million for graduates of the short-
term training model and Rp 5 million for graduates of the medium-term training model;
(para. 3.15);
(c)  (i) PMP Private Sector Management Committees (PSMC) and Provmcial Coordination
Units would be established by August 31, 1994; and (ii) the detailed action plan for
implementation of the PMP would be prepared and sent to the Bank by August 31, 1994
for review and comments (para. 3.17);
(d)  For long-term domestic training and overseas fellowships: (i) selection criteria would
be acceptable to the Bank; (ii) a post or cluster of posts would be identified for each
candidate at the time of selection; and (iii) upon their return, graduates would be
assigned to these posts (para. 3.20);
(e)  Progress reports would be sent to the Bank semi-annually by April 30 and October 31
of each year (para. 3.32);
(f)  (i) TORs for project evaluation studies would be sent to the Bank by June 30, 1995 for
review and comments; (ii) such studies would be carried out not later than December
31, 1995 and December 31, 1996; and (iii) the findings and recommendations would
be furnished to the Bank for review and comments (para. 3.33);
(g)  (i) The Bank would be furnished for comments a proposal for the establishment of a
levy-grant scheme for the financing of staff training of manufacturing enterprises in
West Java and North Sumatra, and for the amendment of the scheme in East Java, not
later than December 31, 1996; and (b) to implement the new and amended levy-grant
schemes in the project provinces not later than June 30, 1997, taking into account the
Bank's comments on the criteria for such schemes (para 4.8);
(h) Satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special Account, and the
necessary organizational structure for its operation, including appropriate accounting and
auditing procedures would be made (para. 4.13); and
(i)  (i) Technical audits, acceptable to the Bank, of the training services provided through
the PTF and the operation of the PMP would be carried out every six months during
the implementation of the project, commencing not later than February 1995, conducted



-29-
by an independent, qualified firm, recruited from outside the project provinces; and (ii)
copies of the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank for information (para. 4.14).
6.2       The condition for disbursement against the category of expenditures for equipment would
be that GOI has procured vehicles for the 3 PTF PIUs (paras. 4.9 (a) and 4.12).
Recommendation
6.3        Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$27.7 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Medium and Largt   Manufactuing Companies by Type and Provwe, bn es", 1990
Food,       TexUlb,      Wood         Paperh      Ches         Nonnetalelc        Basic    Mabzy             Odter
Pwd"\Tlcp                 Bewages        Aqxad           Wood          Pap       ARuba           ?&nl           mot        & Equip-    Manufac.           TOW        %Share
_ __________             & Tobawco      &11:f          Pdocts       Producb       Products      Products     Products         meAt      Indsts                       ofTobll
I D1  Acch                         23            0            35             3            20            4             0             9            0            94          0.6%
3 NW&S _uft                       36             Ss          13S            43           200           43             9           19*             9          9S8          5.9%
3 WetsmnsSr                        31            IS           25             9            13            12             }            2             0          111          0.7%
4 R                                42             8           99             5            12            9             2            35             0          212          1.3%
5 i                                14            0            78             0            14            2             0             3            2           113          0.7%
6 Souk Stuma                       48             8           79             5            36           35             2            14             1          223          1.4%
7 B                                 5             1            4             0             2            2             0             0             0           14          0.1%
8                                  8            4            14             1            23            12            0             8            0           150          09%
smmatm                          615            97          459            65           320           119           14           179            12         1880        11.6%
9 D   X1 Muuft                    247         1,088          171           215           428           46            27           407            39         2,6C8        16.5%
19 W*J*                            788         1,3*           306           136           634          47             27           456           69         4,J79        25.9%
11 C=Ak  km                        950          702           169            93           193          236             5           134           48         2,530         15.7%
12 D. Yovakmft                      33           53            17            IS            12           17             0            IS            8           176          1.1%
ft  FAWASM&                      I'd"           442           2W            124            67          297            17           S4M           42         3,53 __.__
_ ms                          3,67          3,571           927          S86         1634         103             76          13s6           206        13,056        80.8%
14 WadKantan                        17            0            69             3            12            0             1             0            0           102         0.6%
is CentIlKA3mon                      0            0            63             0            3             0             0             0            0            66         0.4%
16 SodhKdMa a                       18            1           104             1           21             6             0             3            0           154         1.0%A
21   EKdaunta                       17            6             0             0            0             0             0             0            0            23         0.1%
K. J _t.                         S2             7          26              4            36            6             1             3            0           345          2.1%
18 SNlawe_ l                         0            0             0             0            0             3             1             7            0            11         0.1%
19 Cu   SUh                          9            1            44             0            0             7             0            0             0            61         0.4%
20      S_awes                      70           43            30            10            11           11             2             9             1          187          1.2%
2 SO    Siaw                         6            0            17             0             0            6             0             1            0            30         0.2%
SulawesI                         85            44           91            10            11           27             3            17             1          289          1.8%
22                                  60           160           68            13             9           30             0             3           20           363         2.2%
23  .TB.                            57            12            6             0            0            30             0             2                        107         0.7%
24N.T.T.                             3            3            10             1            2             3             0            2                          24         0.1%
25 RagT r                            3            0             1             0             1            5             0             1                         11         0.1%
26 M                                10            0            18             3             8            1             0            6                          46         0.3%
27 h   a*a                          12            3            15             5             1            3             0            3                          42         0.3%
_ru[stsdS                       145           178          its            22            21           72             0            17           20           S9          3.T%
INDONESIA                     4.,24         3,897         1,831          687         2,022         1,297           94         1'2            239         16.1631
% Shbame ofToa                28.0%        24.1%         11.3%          4.3%         115%          8.0%          0.6%         9.7%          1.5%
Socm: Dat Coflha and Anoabuis iMslityoflodutry, akta, ndosia
Tos pous wie aste ws arc the Ear.ra hich would stabish Ptovicl TraiingFunds.



INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Employees of Medium amd Large Manulfauing Companies by Type and Pmtce, Idoneda, 1990
Food,       Txti,        Wood&          apwr       CheiAl    Non.metai           Baski     Mahiy            OdkNr
Pce\Type                  Beveage        Apped           Wood         Pup       &     er        Idlanat        meta      & Eqip.    Maufact.           TotW        %Sha
____________      & Tobacco     & Lether         Px rod     P             Pducs        Pouc          Pduc            melo      ladtics                      Of Tol
I D. Aceh                       4,429           0          5,403        1,391        2,93           830             0          263             0        15,296          0.6%
2 NW* s.al                     66,67         7,146        AM,6          S,SSz        4,916         S,OSJ        5,UJ         1AM             26        167,219          6.71
3 West Sm-_ba                   3,307         ,239         4,249          494        2,022         3,284          136            79            0        14,;10          0.6%
4 R5,463                                     1,82         25,658        2,494         2,010          428           48         6,810            0        44,783          1.8%
S km%                            611             0        16,178           0         2,035            83            0           89           900t9,8%                   0.S%
6 South Sw mat                  6,940        1,702        22,104          162        14,951        3,451          234           648          211        50,403          2.0%
7 R   b                          147            26          5S4             0          195            78            0             0            0         1,030          0.0%
9 LMP                          16,35S          367         2,165           38        10,507        1,842            0          491             0        31,768          1.3%
s_naIm                      103,930       1t,352        99,997       10,118        77,609        Ma9           6241        1 8,62         137        345.            13.9%
9 DI. Jakl                     22,181      137,422        15,930       21,642        59,2         12,023         5,449       78,254        7,391       359,954         14.5%
19 Wd J?aMe                     63,078      351,531        SAM          18,14        ) 1$1,64      41,210        11,728       77,793        11,711      70,933          3.9%
11  0 Javla                    120,I93      135,254        15,431        9,608       36,001        14,414        1,052        14,723        4,992       352,438         14-2%
12 Dl Yogkta                    4,339       11,00S         1,498        1,632          626         1,217            0         2,644          308        23,272          0.9%
N  Ew a'*                     1f6,119        S446          446          A2,70          .A          22,6          SI,5M        457           1,531       473,7           19.1%
_sa                         '48,700      691979        128,015       73,790         9           91,47         24,09       222001         26,        195,7            786%
14 West K    _m                 1,40             0        32,154           72         2,24             0            55            0             0        36,405          1.5%
isC     KaUntat                     0            0         17,334           0           398            0             0            0             0        17,732          0.7%
16 SoaKalnn                      1,674          32         33,051         102        2502            164            0           130            0        37,655          1.5%
17  B mntn                       1,9S6         253             0            0             0                          0            0             0         2239          0.%
K_ailm                        5,500          285        82,539          174         5,134          164           55           130            0        94,031          3.8%
It Noth Suolwe                      0            0             0            0             0           79            85          315             0          479          0.0%
19 Ca"raWlSa_                     458            34         5,938           0             0           282            0            0             0         6,712         0.3%
20 Soau Sulaves                  9,228        2,574         7,578        1,064         1,101        1,926          279          569            38        24,357          1.0%
21 So_latSulawedi                 331             0          830            0             0           139            0           165            0         1,472         0.1%
Su"di                        10,24         2,608        14,346        1,064         1,la1        2,426          364         1,049           38        33,020          1.3%
22 BEu                           5,211        S,72          5,428          6S4          721           912            0           105          992        29,595          1.2%
23 N.T.B.                        2,343          576          397            0             0         1,356            0          271             0         4,943         0.2%
24 N.T.T.                          81           349          420            94           76          347             0           44             0         1,411         0.1%
25 Eat Thr                        225             0           20             0           44           111            0           41             0          441           0.0%
26 M4l 41                                         0        16,105          124          331           23             0          260             0        17,2U           0.7%
27 kaan 2h372                                   215         2,069          163           23            *6            0           175            0         S,103          0.2%
E_ssuIlads                  t10,6w3       t6,712        24,439-       I,035         I'19         2835             0           896          992         8,7m           2.4%
INDONESIA                    387         723,936       349,336       8,18t        374,152      lt,90t         30,729      242,728        28640     2,486,430
% Shae of Tot                21.7%         29.1%        14.0%          3.5%        15.0%          4.5%         1.2%         9.S%          1.2S
Soae: DatC Cdoiamn    An*lynsits fI hbyefld         akwta hzon
TspuWincswid astulats edt e m wlbwolestabEiPa e  TahugF. 



INDONESIA
SKlllS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Fornma, Smgl  anuSfatur     Companies by Prohne, Indonesa 1991 /a
Food,       Teil          wood&         Paper&       Chmcas    Non-mntalic        Basic       Madiny         Odr          Pasonal        TOal       %Share
PEvice                  BciU_e         Appe           Wood         P8r         & Rubber       Mmoial        MAl         & Equ         M ad.         Sezi:cC&                   ofTo
&Tb           &LTobco    Leater  Produt  Prduct        Prodwcts      Prous         Products       meot         dubste      Houshdold
I D.L.A                           54S          319           459            54          351           431             0          156           324         1.30S         3.947       2.%
2 NW*o     iO,A                 3,41          I,15          1,644          349           747         119              0         2,5ss          941         5,454        17,445      123%
WestSumstra                      978 nS1                     343           49            65           420            0           257            76          485          3191        2.%
4 Riau                          1.144           S8           316            t2          209           391             0          232            Be           979         3529        2.5%
5 iambi                           283           91           247            66           26           472             0           68            20           707         1.980       1.4%
6 South S9h                     1,4t           490           733            72           40           4t6             0          977           135          1,060        5.354       3.8%
7 Baduh                           494           96           338            64            13          169             0           74            67           261         1.576       1.1%
8 LPAmR                          ,25            49           255           147           26           252             0           175          133           231          Xsl' 1.8I
Sumata                        95,50         2831         433             o3          1,477        3,7n              0         4,489         1,784       tO2          39,541      27.8%
9 DJCL karmu                    1.091         2,139          467           422           175           58             0           829          441           825         6,437       45%
1  Wmtitak                      8,775         3,352        3,178           892          S32         3,248             0         1,S39          433         1,150        2ZM        1Z62%
11 centrala                      5,367         3,105        2029           553           489         2,070             0         1,320          486         1,5S0        16,989      11.9%
12 D1 Y     qgakat                755           566         2,333           104           29           353            0           236           120           26t         4,764       3.4%
13 Eat JMAsa                     6,629         3,184         1,938          822          876         1,743             1)        1,746          456           S87        16,981      11.9%
in 2s2,17                                  11A,3 46       938          2,793         2,101         7,472            0         5,670         196          4,40         68,170     47.9%
14Westealimnto                   1,444          517           926          247            45            74            0           403           446         1.489         5.591      3.9%
Is CesalKatlmni                    370           35           377           57            25           105             0           46            36          275          1,326       0.9%
16 SwtKaimntan                   441            40           395           38            27            89            0            99            28           114         1.271      0.9%
l7 ButaIin t.274                                129           527           144           is           1.54            0          lot            70          4S7         4.94         IMA
K alma                        2              721         222            486          t1s            422             0          729           580         2,NS         10,142      7.1%
Is NothSuiawe                     636           402           568           56            35           435            0           335            92          608          3,167      2.2%
19 CenmtrSulwai                    365          125           743           138           21           187             0          105            64          432          2.180       1.5%
20 Soutb Sulxwesi                2.246          879           999           239           73           855             0          718           391           572         6,97       4.9%
21 Southeutlei                     113            8           365            22            13          140             0           36            29           334      L,OS          0.7%
Sinlaweal                     3,360         1,414        2,675          455           142         1,617             0         1,1g           576         1,946       13,379       9.4f
228a                               659          563           453            91           20           276             0          446           140          201          2.4        20%
23 N.T.B.                          761          214           m             109           21           857             0          246            65          367          3,213      213%
24 N.T.T.                          347          265           309            90           25           146             0           80             6          273          1,541       1.1%
25 BtTimor                          27           19            71            11                         12             0            3             4           29           176       0.1%
26 Malul                           279          119           315            25           52            85            0           136            60          259          1,33       0.9%
27Iriana                           395          273           360            39           ;0           168            0            47            46          516          1.t54       1.3%
lt        nds                 2,46          1,453        2,8            365           128         t,4A4            0           958           321         1,64S       10,96         77%
INDONESUA                    40,524        17,765       21,151         4,982         3,96        14,765             0        13,040        5,197        20,808      142,196
%SbareofTfa                   28.5%        12.5%         14.9%A         3.5%/o       2.8%         10.4%         0.0%          9.2%          3.7%         146%
Source: Dhcorate Genea of Smal bdustY, M   kUaY ofb&dUy, Jabrta Wdeia
I  S  loc a       te 1ed as ones wrth ope raing caIaw uip t  o R p  6040 mIli    Of whichb , wnaith c 8t gcp   ofabove RP SO milio I Edefined as 'fomal' and
bedow Rp 50 million a defined as anonformal^ small enateqie
lb Tbese tkeprinem  wouldestbhih Pvncal Ting Fxumda the pwposed wect                                                                                                                           X



BDONESIA
SKILLS DEVEI/PMENT PROJKCr
N_msr of NEOe of Foama Sna Manufctuing omns by Type and Pomve, h_one  1991
Food.       Taik.    Wood&              Paper        Ceiai       Nometlic         Basic       Mamy           Oher         Pema           T$dal       %Sbue
Povim                   Beve           Appad         Wood          PaWer         Ruabb        Mineral       MeNl        &Eqaip          ma          Seice&                       fTotal
& Toco        & lTr         Produnt       Prodcts      Prodcs        Prdus         Produs         Umt         Indetes      Hoehold
I DI MA=                        3.369         12S1         3.879           3S6         1.530        3.171             0          647           881         4,397         19.532       1.4%
2 Nw*Awet     o                1J,007        465W         10,299         1,46          43S*          7466             0        1O 2O,95      22t;         15.92          7S5          5.6%
3 Wedstumar                     5.0           5,519         2,432          380          199         2.729             0         1.234          153         1,586         20.040       1.4%
4 Rio                           6,719          461         X735          5.205         1.769        2598              0         1.408          372         3,067         24.334       1.7%A
5 Iambi                         1.413          313         2.234           355          279         3,511             0          313            37         1.835         10.290       0.7%
6 Suh SU*a                     10229          2.473        S,C67           597          197         3.017             0         5385           696         4.279         35.565       2.6%
7 Bao1u                         2.X301         462         Z194            333          105          1.089           0           353           201           818          7.156       0.6%
8 La==                          4.3G4          461         2.345           665          323         2,367            0           167           275           71t         12.326       09%
63,141       17,6          3406           9,339        8,672        2590              0        20,402         S,341       32,6S92       20,09        1.0%
9 DJC.L kuta                   35,163        66.444        12.662       10.525         5.623         1.361            0        23.420        12,224       21.447        I38.89       13.6%
10 WJa,e/a                     49,797         6974          A,9M1         4O             34         3A*                0       14,4           2,3*9         5,73        291           1.X
II CaJr ha                      7.605         71,673       25.12         5,092         7.S66       30.114            0         12,707        7.818         .200         247.597      173%
12 DI Y     qwat                 5,251        4,269         7.105          543           310         2996             0          1.778        1,656         1,22          75.130       1.|%
is HetJ/rna                    117,6901       4o           21,475         7,6o        13/,12        2*77              19        19,074        3,615         2,69        251,416       J6t
jaws,                       2807          21,4         119,5          30,029        3S,145       94,376             0        67,437       27.705        39,A96        960,93      684%
14 W eAsKantn                    5,377         1,69S        5,493          778           324           418            0          1.537          961         3.904        20.490       15%
IS CaPiliwnln                    1,448          137         4.703          321           267           639            0           309           124          9S1          S.9Q9       0.6%
16 SothKalitm                    2.993          339         9,331           176          275         1, -1            0           624           141          47i          15.402       1.1%
17 East KalimatnW                1.6S2         1,066        5,730          712            93         1.925            0          1.287          191         1.S17         12503       0.9%
KaUmaitam                   1t,6e0         3,40         13,27          t167           9S9         4,033            0          3.757        1,417         7,180        67,X1        4.1%
IS NolhSulsesl                  22,927        2435          3.S22          260           237         2,451            0          1.527          228         2,560        26.447       1.9%
l9 CA"iuS wesi                   1555           391         6.020          337           142         1.366            0           474           182         1.157         11.624      0.8%
20 Sou3hSulswi                  10,918         6.404        S,189           821          480         6,323             0         3.991         1.513        1.907         37.S46      2.7%
21 Southas Sulawei                 813          323         3.473           136          100         1.132            0           280           13S         1.S63          7.951      0.6%
Sakwea                       26,213        9,SS3       1,604          1,654          9S9        11,271             0         6,272        2,061         7.17          3,676       6%
22 Bdi                           4,108        13.771        3.754          622           143         2,479            0          1.5S4        1,522         2.394        30.383       2.2%
23 N.T.B.                       10,630         1.925        9,911           614          146         8,973            0          1,637          234         1.997         36.067      Z6%
24 N.T.T.                        1.519         1,553        2289            342          102         1,276            0           464            19          78S           S,349      0.6%
25 Eastrm                          175          124           360           62                         188            0            37             8          117           1.071      0.1%
26Malk                           1.270          472         2607            107          447           626            0           91t           224     St8               7.489       O.S%
27 IinJaas                       1.459          817         Z074            161          104          Om302           0           244           107         2.750         8.018       0.60/6
Eata  lan                    19,161       1S,668        20,995         1,908          942        14,144            0         4,S14         2,114         7,S61        91,377       6.6%
INDONESIA                   396M,22      300,351       216,617        44,S67       46,737       160,475            0       102,762        31,638        94,216      1,391,224
% ShmOfTotal                2?.5%          21.6Yo        15.6%          3.2%         3.4%         10.8%        0.0%          7.4%         2Iwo          6.3%
Smte: Dieate Gae     f Small tadOy, M sty offliqdry. akaia. inda
/a Thsetree povneswdetablshPvncidTainagFbudnde propoedproect.



-35-                                                      hun=2
Page  of 2
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Group-fanced Educateon and Train g Project
Loan/    Yea of    Year of   Pojecs                                          Agency                         Amount
Credit     Board      Actua                                                                            Oess cancellations) /a
Number   Approval   aClong                                                                                  IBRD         IDA
- (U$ ndmillion)-
Projects wth MOEC
219       1970        1976   Fist Education                                 MOEC /b                                    4.5
387       1973        1981   Third Educaton                                 MOEC                                      13.5
1237       1976        1981   Fourfh Education                              MOEC                          24.1
1433       1977        1984   First Teher Training                          MOEC                           17.8
1486       1977        1984   Nonfomal Education                             MOEC                          8.3
869       1978        1985   Polytebnic                                     MOEC                                      49.0
1904       1980        1987   Firt University Delopment                     MOEC                          43.1
2101       1982        1990   Second Teacher Training                        MOEC                          79.1
2102       1982        1988   Second Texlbook                                MOEC                          24.9
2290       1983        1990   Second Polytcbnc                               MOEC                         106.0
2355       1983        1990   Second Nonfcxmal Educaton                      MOEC                          43.0
2472       1984        1990   Secoday Education and M8mt Tanng               MOEC                          76.6
2547       1985        -      Second Unhry Development                       MOEC                         147.0
2944       1988        -      Higher Education Developmednt                  MOEC                         140.3
3158       1990        -      Second SconWay Education and Mgmt              MOEC                         154.2
3311       1991        -      Secnd HigherEduton Developmnat                 MOEC                         150.0
3431       1991        -      Third Nonfonmal Education                      MOEC                         69.5
3448       1992        -      Prinary Educalion Quality hnpvment             MOEC                         37.0
3496       1992        -      Pramay Sclool Teacher Deomen                   MOC                          366          -
S,ketalefPreJe* with MOEC                                                1,157.5        670.
Pecs with Odher Ministries
288       1972        1978   Second Education (Agrictre Training)           MOA /c                                     6.3
1692       1979        1985   Second Agricultural Taining                   MOA                           34.7
2258       1983        1988   Public Wors Manpower Developmtent              MOPW /d                       29.8
2341       1983        1992   Thid Agiutuad Training                         MOA                          629
2599       1985        1993   Sciec and Tenolog Traiing                      MORT /c                      93.0
2705       1986        -      Manpower Development and Training              MOM/f                         58.1
2940       1988        -      Accntncy Deveopment                            MOP /g                       113.0
2992       1988        -      Tree Crop Huma Resource Demelopment            MOA                           18.4
3112       1989        -      Public Work Inshtiutin Dev. &  1Tra            MOPW                         36.1
3134       1989        -      Professional Human Resoures Development        BAPPENAS, BPPTih             117.         -
SuMotaofPrels "ir OhM          b Vuin                                     563.5          63
GRAND TOTAL                                                              1,721.1        733
/a The amount less cancellatin" apples only to the proects wich wer closed (with "Year of Acual Closg").
The amount for other ongomg prqects ws Wtken from the Staff Appraia Reports.
/b MOEC   - Ministry of Education and Culte
/c MOA    - Ministry of Agricutre
/d MOPW   - Ministry of Public Works
/e MORT - Ministry of Reearch and Technology
/f MOM - Ministry of Manpower
/g MOP - Ministry of Finance
/h BPPT    - Agency fbr Assessmntand AppliCatico  of Tecdnology



-36-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
SKI LS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANNG SUBTOR-REATD, COMPLED AND ONGOING PROJECTS AND
PRoJECT COMPETiON AND PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPoRTs
Credit/        Dates          Original                                PCR                PPAR
Loan     Effective   Closing/a Project                  Credit/Loan    Report            Report
Number                                                  (US$ m)/b    Number Date         Number Date
C0219    Jan 1971 Dec 1976   First Educadon                 4.5        2998  1977        2998  1980
C0869   May 1979 June 1985   Polytechnic                   49.0        7847  1987        7847  1989
L1486   May 1981 June 1984   Nonformial Edation             8.3        6304  1985        6304  1986
L1692   May 1981 June 1985   Second Agriculual Trng.       34.7        7051  1986        7051  1987
12290   Sept 1983 Dec 1990   Second Polytechnic           106.0       10460  1992
12258    Jul 1983 Dec 1988   Public Works Manpower Dev. 29.8           9176  1990
L2341    Oct 1983  Jun 1992   Third Agricultural Trainng    62.9         /c
12355   Feb 1984 Sept 1990   Second Nonfornal Educ.        43.0        9856  1991
12599   Sept 1985 Mar 1993   Science and Tech. Trahing    93.0        12560  1993
L2705   Sept 1986  Jun 1994   Manpower Dev. and Taining  58.1
12940    Jul 1988  Jun 1994   Accountancy Development    113.0
12992    Jan 1989 Dec 1994   Tree Crops Human Res. Dev.  18.4
13112   Nov 1989 Dec 1995   Public Wors Inst. Dev.Trng  36.1
I3134   Feb 1990 Mar 1995   Professional Human Res. Dev. 117.5
12431   Apr 1992 Mar 1998   Third Nonforml Educ.           69.5
/a Actual closing dates for the completed projects and revised closing dates for the ongoing projects.
/b Tbe amou  less cancellation for the completed projects and the amount as in Staff Appraisal Reports for the ongomg
projects.
/c The PCR for Loan 2341 is being prepared.



-37-                         Annftex 3
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROVINCIAL TRAING FuND (PMF
STRUCTURES SYSTEMS, AND PROCEDURES
Strategic Overview
1.          A trning fund would be used as the principal mechanism for providing inital support
and incentives to increase and improve trainmg within Indonesia's manufacturing industry for the
development of its human resources at all levels and thus the strengthening of its competitiveness,
quality and productivity. From a strategic perspective the Provincial Training Fund (PIT) Scheme
must have: (a) a clear swt of objectives at which to aim; (b) a vigorous and largely private sector
operational structure; and (c) the fnncial and technical means.
2.          The main aim of the PTF Scheme would be to encourage manufacturing firms to
develop a company-based training capability. Given the fact that there is little prior history of
formalized or planned training in the three target provinces, early emphasis would be placed on the
estblishment of the training function, either by an individual company or on a group basis.
Grants
3.          Experiences in other countries have shown that external funds, such as the proposed
PTF Scheme, for finmacing trainmg costs through a system of grants, appt. r to influence
significantly a firm's propensity to train, particularly those firms at the margin. Under the proposed
project, grants would be directed initially to firms wifling to develop the capacity for identifying
training needs, to prepare and implement programs to meet these needs and to validate and evaluate
these programs on an on-going basis. In order that this might be more realistically achieved, a
central and fundamental criterion for grant eligibility would be the establishment of the training
function as an integral part of the management system within a firm. Each partcipating firm would
be required to employ 10 or more people and be engaged in manufacturing and to establish and carry
out the following activities:
(a)   Appoint and train a Training Manager who would have overall responsibility for
coordinatng all training activities within the firm. In very large firms, the Training
Manager would work full-time at this job, in the medium to small firms or in any
firm which is a member of a group training scheme, he would be the owner/manager
or would work part-time as Trainig Manager;
(b)   identify the training needs of the individuals in the fim at all job levels;
(c)   orepare and implement training programs to meet the identified needs; and
(d)   validate and evaluate the training carried out



-38-                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
4.          Ihe planning horizons for many small and medmm sized firms are usuatly so short
in Indonesia, often a year or less, that training plans are hard to form. It is therefore of paramount
importance for firns to draw up short-term business appraisals and articulate their training plans in
line with these appraisals in order to ensure their relevancy. As an aid to this process a practical
format has been developed as part of the standard scheme documentation which incorporates the
necessary performance-based criteria.
5.          Accordingly, it is proposed that grants of the following ranges and scales be
incorporated into the scheme and targeted towards: (a) Company Group Training Units (CGTUs);
(b) individual firms; (c) public and private training providers; and (d) KADIN/APINDO/sectoral
employer organizatons. All grants would be provided on a contract basis and linked to performance
outcomes rather than to inputs. This will further ensure that fuids spent on training provide a real
benefit to both employers and employees.
6.          Company Group Training Units (CGU)). CGTUs are groups of companies
associated either through employer organizations or by other means with the objective of organizing
raining for their members. Such groups can be industry, technology or geographically-based and
their establishment in the three target provinces should be given a high priority.
7.          The aim is to involve 15 to 25 percent of man ri  employment in medium an.;
large-size companies in CGTUs over the life of the SDP. Medium-size firms in particular, and even
some small firms, would benefit from membership. CGTUs could provide a successful vehicle for
organizing and supportng training in member fms who would otherwise be too small to sponsor
their own training.
8.          CGTUs must also become financially self-sustaing over the three year period of the
project, through generating revenues from traiing contracts to support their own overhead costs.
Yearly training contracts would be awarded to public and private training organizations, and
payments would be on a phased basis and only in respect of incurred expenditures; however, a
monthly advance for salary and operational costs would be allowable under the terms of the contract.
RECOMMDIED LEVEL OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT FROM THE TRAINNG FUND
L______-I__                Yearl              Year2            Year3
Staff                      80%               60%               30%
Operational                80%               60%               30%
Traiing Courses            80%               60%               30%
(Formal Off-the-Job)
9.          Individual Frs. Grants to individual firms would be provided for: (a) 50 percent
of the salary of a new Training Manager for two years; and (b) the training programs at the CGTU
rates. Public and private training organizations would be eligible to be contracted for CGTU and
individual firms' traning progams.



-39-                          Annx 3
Page 3 of 4
10.         Small-scale Industries. In addition, four days of consultant services would be made
available yearly to individual small-scale companies who agree to expand their business. Only
formal sector industrial manufacg companies would be included, however. By agreement,
consultant services could also be provided to groups of companies. The services would cover
business planning, markedng and finance, manageent/processes and industrial engineering. The
P1F Scheme would fnance 80 percent of such costs in year 1, 60 percent in year 2 and 30 percent
in year 3 with the balance coming from the participating employers.
11.         Technical training would be aided by grants under certain conditions (e.g., in areas
relevant to industry such as toolmaking, etc.) as would management trainng for officers of group
associations and task-centered workshops for owners of small compamies. These companies would
be accessed individually and through small industrial groups including SENTRA and KOPINKRA.
The Ministry of Industry Technical Support Centers (UPT) could also be used to deliver services to
small industries. The grants would cover 100 percent of the traing costs.
12.         Public and Private Traiing Providers-Technical Traing for Job-Seekers.
Traiing for job-seekers would be supported from the PTF Scheme, based on the level of job
placement obtied in relation to the training, and provided the trainee stayed in the related job for
at least six months. Support would be at 100 percent of costs (minus any fees paid by the tainees)
if 85 percent or more of the trainees in a course were placed in a job related to their training. At
placement rates below 85 perent, support would be pro-rated. Courses would be at Skills
Qualification Standards (SQS) levels 3, 2 and 1 and in sklfl areas where a clearly identified industry-
related need exists.
13.         KADIN/APINDO(Sectoral Employer Organizations. Grans would be provided
for the appointment of two or three operational and support staff per province, whose role would
include promotion, coordination and planning of actvities, on the following basis:
|___   Year I         Year2            Year 3
Training Fund Contnrbution    80%               60%              30%
Association Contrbution       20%               40%              70%
14.         TraInn Contracts Implemented by the Trainng Fund Board. Grants would be
provided for sldlls upgrading for each company at a level of 80 percent of costs in year 1, 60 percent
in year 2 and 30 percent in year 3, with the balance coming from the participating employers.
Structure
15.         An operational structure (see Annex Chart 3) wil be established in each of the three
Provinces to oversee and manage the PTF. It will have its own legal staus and have a strictly
market-led commcial focus. The private sector would be heavily involved as reflected in the
proposed structural model in which the two pivotal components are the PTF Board and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU).



-40-                          Amnex 3
Page 4 of 4
16.         The government's existing Levy/Grant scheme in East Java and its planned
introduction in the other two provinces have obvious implications for the PTF Scheme and its
operational structure. The PTF will be implemented separately from the Levy/Grant scheme in East
Java. For West Java and North Sumatra it is proposed that the PTF structure would serve as the
model for a Levy/Grant scheme and that following the compledon of the proposed Skills
Development Project, funding from collected levies would be used as the main source of funding to
ensure future funding sustainability.
17.         Provincial TrainingFundBoard. The PTF Boards would include equal Government
and employer representation and would have an independent private-sector Chairman. In all cases,
appointments would be made by the Provincial Governor from a short list of candidates submitted
by the nominating bodies, e.g., KADIN, APINDO, and Government, etc. Board members should
have a high profile and have the ability to represent their organizations effectively, thereby creating
a balanced Board dynamic. The Chairman should be appointed in an individual capacity. Potenial
candidates for this position might include senior executives from other sectors of employment as well
as industry. Appointment of the Chairman should be cleared with the Bank.
i8.         The Board's broad role would be to provide overall direction for the Training Fund.
The Board would: (a) agree and settreview scheme criteria; (b) agree and set/review grant levels;
(c) oversee the direction of the Fund; (d) approve expenditure within an agreed budget; (e) direct
the PIU; (f) promote and promulgate the economic rationale for training; (g) ensure that training
seminars and other public relations activities are organized; (h) disseminate information; (i) provide
for an industry sector focus; and (j) approve reports, etc.
19.         Project Implementation Unit.  It is imperative that professionally trained
administrative staff of the highest available caliber be appointed to the PIU. The Director will be
nominated from the private sector by the Board and appointed by the Governor following Bank
clearance of the contract for this appointment. The Treasurer, who would be a government
employee, and all other staff from the private sector, would be appointed by the Board.
20.         Secondment of appropriate personnel from industry would appear to be the best option
for recruiting PIU staff. Secondment could be for a limited period-say 12 to 24 months-and would
afford a development opportmity for the individuals nominated. Their role would be primarily
directed toward "managing" and "applying" the PIF Scheme. The PIU would: (a) evaluate
submissions; (b) prepare training contracts; (c) ensure that training seminars are run; (d) develop an
approved register of training providers; (e) evaluate trainer capability; (f) develop a training course
directory; (g) undertake training audits and other inspection; (h) develop and update an information
database; (i) develop a management information system; (j) provide general training advice and
assistance; (k) develop and promulgate linked case studies; (I) maintain sound financial control; and
(m) approve payments within specified limit.
21.         External Consultants. The services of national and international consultants familiar
with the various components of the SDP would be retained for the training fund in each province.
The role of these consultants should be purely strategic and designed to oversee the entire operation.
These consultants will be appointed in accordance with the implementation plan (See Annexes 7 and
9).



-41-                         Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SKILIS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPANY GROUP TRAING UNIT (CGT[)
Background
1.          A company group training unit (CGTU) is a training organization established by a
group of companies to promote training and assist member companies in all aspects of the training
process. CGTUs would generally be formed by medium-sized companies grouped by industrial
sector, geographic orientation or technology.
2.           In the previous World Bank-funded Manpower Development and Training Project
(Loan 2705-IND), CGTUs, or what were known then as Industrial Training Development Units
(ITDUs), were pilot tested in several provinces, including East Java, West Java and North Sumatra.
Two different approaches were used. In East Java the assistance provided included promotion of
training, assistance in the establishment of the ITDUs, training needs assessments, design of priority
training programs, and implementation of training. The cost of training implementation was shared
between the project and the ITDU, with the cost share of the participating companies varying from
30% to more than 50% in some training courses. Two of the ITDUs established in East Java were
sectoral (fiurniture and textiles), while the third one was geographic and located in an industrial area
50 km. from the capital. These ITDUs were quite active from 1990-1991 until the termination of
the project. While the ITDUs had their own organizational set-ups, they could not afford to hire
full-time staff to handle their operations. The ITDU Executive Directors were personnel or human
resource development managers from the member companies devoting a portion of their time to the
ITDU. Consequently, ITDU activities slackened considerably after the project support stopped. At
present, the three ITDUs stiU exist, but the latest field reports indicate that their activities are
sporadic and minimnl.
3.          In both West Java and North Slumatra, the project identified several industrial groups
and provided free technical assistance to cooperating companies. The assistance included training
needs assessments, and design and implementation of some courses in individual companies.
4.           An evaluation of the ITDU experience commissioned by the World Bank in 1991
(Crofton & Kemp, ITDU Evaluation, World Bank, 1991) recommended the replication of the East
Java model in view of the stronger possibilities for sustainability and the wider reach brought about
by the ownership and commitment of the companies to the ITDUs. In West Java and North Sumatra,
there were no traces of sustainability of the training activities in the companies assisted, after the end
of the project.
5.          The ITDU evaluation also indicated very positive reactions from the participating
companies during the project intervention. Concrete results were documented in all provinces. The
ownership and responsibility of the companies for the ITDUs in East Java appears to be a major
advantage. Also the cost-sharing experience in the three ITDUs there provides a good basis for self-
sustainability. However, more support would be required by ITDUs if they are to become fully self-



-42-                         Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
sufficient, including assistance in hiring and maintaining qualified full-time staff and provision of
promotional and technical support, particularly at the onset. The industry associations, e.g., KADIN
and APINDO, should assist in promoting the concept of training in general and in the establishment
of ITDUs in particular. More activities would need to be undertaken by the ITDUs in order to
attract more member companies and to strengthen their support by the companies.
6.          The development of an industry-led and demand-driven training system depends
heavily upon the willingness of the industrial sector to invest in training. Previous studiest have
indicated that such interest is still very weak even in many large manufacturing companies. The East
Java ITDU experience showed that group training activities can be viable, but that sufficient
resources were not made available for long enough to fully sustain the three ITDUs there. The
lessons learned have been taken into account in the design of the CGTUs.
Subcomponent Objectives and Description
7.          This project would develop the in-service trair.ng function in groups of companies
through the setting up of CGTUs. The project aims to achieve the following:
(a)   to establish CGTUs to: (i) ensure that the training function becomes an important
business activity in the companies; (ii) improve the training skills of their training
managers and supervisors; and (iii) increase their capacity for staff training;
(b)   to make the CGTUs self-sustaining and self-expanding to include more and more
manufactuing establishments, and subsequently ot'tier sectors; and
(c)   to develop a model that could be replicated in otV zr provinces in the long term.
8.          CGTUs would identify company training needs, prepare training plans, implement
training or arrange for training to be supplied on contract, evaluate training programs and measure
training costs. They would also assist companies to manage their own training activities and to
design and implement on-the-job training. The C.iTUs would be supported and advised by staff of
the training fund PIU. CGTU and company training managers and in-plant instructors would receive
training themselves under the project and linkages between industry and public and private training
providers would be promoted. The project would encourage the formation of an association of
training managers in the project provinces. CGTUs would typically have about 40 member
companies or a group employment of about 4,000 people. They would be kept small in size in order
to minimize total costs.
Subcomponent Implementation
9.          The project would address the issue of sustainability through the following measures:
(a)   Promotion and Technical Support. The project, through the Training Promotion
Sub-unit of the PIU would provide promotional support to groups of companies
intending to set up CGTUs. Foreign and local specialists would be available to
I/      Indonesia: Emplovment and Training, The World Bank, June, 1991. Shafiq Dhanani,
Manufacturin  Enterprises Survey in East Java. West Java and North Sumatra,
January 1993.



-43-                         Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
participate in management forums, seminars and conferences to promote training
awareness and to provide guidelines on the steps required to establish a CGTU. In
addition, the KADIN/APINDO would be provided with logistical support by the
project to encourage them to take an active role in the promotion of CGTUs and
other enterprise training activities. The project, through the Training Advisory Sub-
unit, would also train or orient the Training Officers hired by the CGTU member
companies. To conduct training needs assessments, prepare training plans and
proposals, and undertake other training related aspects as necessary.
(b)   Competent Regular Staffing. The CGTUs would be provided with funds to hire
competent training officers and administrative staff to promote the training function
in member companies and extend sufficient training assistance. Each CGTU would
employ a training manager, an assistant training manager, and two support staff. The
project would contribute to personnel costs and to the cost of office equipment and
operating expenses under a cost-sharing formula. Under this formula, the project
would pay 80% of the total agreed under expenses in the L.st year, 60% in the
second year and 30% in the third year. It is expected that by the end of the third
year, the member companies would have experienced substantial benefits from the
activities of the CGTU and therefore be sufficiently motivated to stustain fully its
operations.
(c)   Tralig  Services Subsidy. The training programs identified by the CGTUs would
also receive fiancial support from the project under the same cost-sharing formula.
The company traiing proposals would have to conform to the guidelines formulated
by the PTF Board. The Board would ensure the proper implementation and quality
of the training activities.
(d)   Employer Support. The KADIN/APINDO would establish a full-time trammg
promotion unit under their joint responsibility. This unit shall be supported by the
project for three years, again under the same cost-sharing formula. The major
functions of this unit would be to coordinate the activities of the CGTUs, assist them
in promoting and expanding their membership, and provide access to training
iformation and training providers. Through this mechanism the CGTU network
would be constantly supported.



-44-                          Annex 5
Page I of 4
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMALL ENTERPRSE TRAING AND ADVSORY SERVICES
Background
1.          Small industries in Indonesia (i.e., companies with capitalization of less than Rp 600
million) generate substantial employment and make a significant contribution to the national output.
In 1991, there were about 1.92 million small manufacturing companies which provided about 6.7
million jobs. This was more than 2.5 times the number employed in the medium and large
companies. However, as in other developing countries, mortality rates for these small enterprises
can be higher than 50% in their first year of operation and can even reach as high as 80% after three
years of operation. Those that survive still face difficulties in expanding due to deficiencies in
managerial capabilities, technological know-how, marketing ability, and access to financing.
2.           Recognizing the critical need to assist small enterprises, the Government of Indonesia
and some private sector organizations have embarked on various s: aall enterprise assistance programs
which include training, financial access, subcontracting development and marketing assistance. The
Minstry of Industry (MOI) provides some training and technical support to small industries,
particularly for the informal and traditional industries. The Ministry operates Technical Support
Centers (UPTs) which provide group production facilities for the use of small comp- nies without
such equipment. The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) conducts management and entrepreneurial
training courses for small companies through its network of productivity centers. In addition, the
nationwide "Bapak Angkat" program encourages medium and large companies to "adopt" small
industrial units and to support them in various ways such as: improving their access to bank credit,
assisting them with marketing and technology, and providing subcontracting possibilities.
Occasionally, government banks (e.g., Bank Indonesia, Bank Dagang Negara, etc.) or private banks
(e.g., Exim Bank) implement joint assisance projects for small industries in collaboration either with
government agencies or universities. Most of the aforementioned programs for small scale industries
for equity reasons were directed at the mformal or traditional small industry groups. These programs
are heavily, if not fully, subsidized and continue to rely on regular government budgets or other
sources of subsidy.
Issues
3.           Issues related to assisting small scale industries include the following:
(a)   Sustainabiity.  Cost recovery possibilities for training services to small scale
industries, particularly for those in the informal/traditional groups, are very limited
due to the reluctance or inability of the beneficiaries to pay. Consequently, most
programs are heavily subsidized, and inevitably stop once the subsidies are fully
consumed. Those programs that are sustained by government nornally suffer from
a lack of funds and limited internal technical capabilities.



-45-                          AMx 5
Page 2 of 4
(b)   Absorptive Capacity. Owner/managers of small industries belonging to the informal
and traditional groups (less than Rp 50 millio-a capitalization) normally require very
basic busiress know-how and technology. They are more preoccupied with survival
dhan expansion. Those in the formal and modern sector are in a better position to
learn and to use modern management techniques and production processes.
(c)   Availability and Accessibility.   Small scale industry owner/managers are
understandably preoccupied with the operation of their businesses. They do not have
much time to spare for formal classroom training, are normally hard to access, and
are usually geographically dispersed. The traditional small industries may be
clustered into SENTRAs (small industry cluster) or KOPINKRAs (handicraft
cooperatives). However, the more modem small industrial sector is less organized.
Rationale and Objectives
4.          The members of the modern small imduatrial sector have the potential to expand into
medium, and eventually, large companies. The development of this sector can provide a strong
economic impact in terms of employment and linkages with the larger companies. This sector is also
more prepared than the informal or traditional sectors to absorb more advanced management and
technical support, and it presents greater possibilites for program sustainability. However, the
sector is stll not fully sensitized to the economic rationale of improving business through training
and consultant services. The package of assistance to be pilot-tested by the project therefore is
designed to stimulate the interest and commitment of the target owner/managers towards contnuing
improvement in their companies. Specifically, the project sub-component objective is to assist
selected small companies to expand and generate more employment by: (a) supplying customued
training and consultant services focused on owners as key persons; and (b) developing the
management capacity of the officers of associations and groups of small companies to assist their
members to develop their businesses.
Dscription of Sub-component
5.          Coverage. The project would emphasize the modem small industrial sector. The
companies in this group would have capitalization of between Rp 50 to 600 million each and would
be located in the three selected provinces of West Java, East Java, and North Sumatra. Companies
in the dominant small industrial sector and those with high growth and export potential in each
province would be given priority. In addition, selected small industrial clusters (SENTRAS and
KOPINKRAS) with good prospects for growth would also receive training and consultant assistance.
According to the 1991 records of the Ministry of Industry, there are around 330,000 companies
licensed in this.
6.          Project Services. Consultants. Individual companies would receive an average of
four man-days of expert advisory services per year for a period of two years. Based on a World
Bank study (Mel Crofton & Leslie Kemp, November, 1992) of small industries in the project
provinces and numerous discussions with national and provincial entities involved in the sector, small
industries need management and technical consultant advice in areas such as business planning, sales
and marketing, product design, production management, quality control, etc. The consultant approach
would also be a suitable training opporunity for the extremely busy owner/manager. Instead of



-46-                          Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
lengthy formal classiuum training, the intervention would consist of periodic tutorial and problem
solving visits. TrInng. In cases where specific training needs are widespread among the small
companies in the modern sector, group training activities would be undertakmen, preferably on a cost-
sharing basis. The more common training needs initially identified are in marketing, business
finance, production systems, etc. More specific training needs would be determined during the initial
phase of the project. Training support can also be provided by the project wo SENTRAS or
KOPINKRAS, particularly to improve the capabilities of the officers of these groups to better serve
the needs of their members.
Implementation
7.          lmplementation Strategy. The Project Training Fund small enterprise sub-unit
would identify key small enterprise groups in coordination with the MOI regional offices (Kanwil
Perindustrian) based on prepared guidelines. Each group would be given a one-day business
planning orientation during which the owner/managers would be guided on how to undertake a
business planning exercise in their enterprises. Simplified manuals for business plan preparation
would be introduced and provided. After the group orientation, the owner/managers would start the
preparation of their respective business plans with the assistance of the small enterprise advisers. An
adviser would spend an average of four days in each beneficiary company.
8.          Based on past experence, the business plan resulting from the orientation and
consultations can lead to immediate improvements in company operations. In addition, the business
plan would identify other areas for improvement which may require further training or consultant
assistance. In such cases, the company may avail of the services of training providers or consultants
and pay for the services themselves; alternatively, a group of companies may avail of subsidized
training or by combining their entitlement, of consultant services from the Training Funds on the
basis of approved proposals. The training needs that are established in the course of the business
planning exercise can also be the subject of a proposal to the Board. Group training activities within
the same sector would be encouraged, with the possibility of organizing CGTUs for the small scale
industries.
9.          In the case of SENTRAS and KOPINKRAS, training needs analysis and plan
preparation would be underutaen in coordination with the MOI or the Ministry of Cooperatives.
Emphasis would be placed on developing the capabilities of the industry group leaders to assist their
member companies. These training activities would be subsidized from the Training Fund, and
implemented either by goverment or private traing providers as approved by the Board.
10.         Implementatdon Strcture. A sub-unit for small enterprise development would be
set up under the provincial PIU. This sub-unit would be staffed by two full-time training advisers,
to handle the planning and coordination of the consultant and training services, respectively. In both
Wc3t Java and East Java, there would be three fill time senior field consultants to be supported by
nine associate consultants (either on full time or part-time contracts). Due to the smaller number of
small scale industres in North Sumatra, there would be only one full time senior field consultant and
three associate consultants. The senior field consultants would assess, plan and supervise the
implementation of consultamt services in designated areas or groups of industries. The consultants
may also be assisted by graduate volunteers (similar to the PMP support staft as required. The teams
would work in close coordinaton with the regional and district offices of the MOI, MOM, and



47-                          Annex 
Page 4 of 4
Ministry of Cooperatives tO gain access to small entrpris and to secure relevant information. Each
team would identify the poteial clie   ficiaries based on dissions with the relevant
government agency.
Expected Output
PROVINCE          NUMBER OF FIMS RECEIVING             NUMBER OF
CONSULTANT SERVICES                TRAINEES
West Java                     1,440                       1,800
East Java                    1,200                        1,200
North Sumatra                    480                         600
Total                      3,120                        3,600



-48-                          AWeA 6
Page I of 6
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YOUNG PRoFESSIoNAL ENTREPRENEU DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PMP) AND
INFORMATION SYSrEM FOR SELF-EMPLOYMENr
1.           Although general unemployment and underemployment is a major issue in Indonesia,
the Government is particularly concerned about the rising unemployment of university graduates.
To partially address this issue, the Government is considering substantial investments in various
targeted self-employment schemes for this population. This Annex describes in details two project
sub-component that would assist the Government to pilot and assess two training schemes and an
information system that are being considered prior to national implementation through the MOM.
YOUNG PROFESsONALS ENTREPRENEUR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PMP)
2.          Overview.  The proposed sub-components would test two entrepreneurship
development schemes.'/ The first would be a short-term training option that has already been
piloted on a small scale by the ILO. This scheme features university-based selection and a minimum
amount of training (about 95 hours) coupled with monitoring, counseling and up to Rp 2.0 million
(less than US$950) of capitalization support for each participant through a guaranteed loan program
that would be established under the proposed project. The second scheme, a medium-term trawning
option, would also be a university-based program, but would be targeted to growth areas in
manufacturing (a study would be conducted to identify small business opportuir, r~s in the sector).
The participants would be provided with about 45 days of targeted business-reLt . taining. They
would each also receive more intensive field-based counseling, access to a small ail. .--,- of specialist
advisory services, and a guaranteed loan of up to Rp 5.0 million (US$2,375) *n capitaizaon
support.
3.          The sub-component would be implemented in five provinces - South Sulawesi, Bali,
North Sumatra, West Java, and East Java. In each province, both schemes would be implemented.
In each province, there would be 20 short-term training and 10 medium-term training programs
demonstrated (Table A. 1). During the three years of the project, it is estiumated that the short-term
training scheme would train about 4,500 persons. The medium-term training scheme woul I train
about 1,000 persons. In total, the two schemres would train about 5,500 university graduates (SI)
to become small business owners (Table A. 1).
4.          Based upon existing performance data, it is assumed that about 70% of these p -rsons
would actually be successful in starig small businesses. ILO studies of small business development
in Indonesia suggest that an average of about 3 jobs would be generated with each small business
established. With the assumption of the 70% establishment rate, the component could be expected
to generate about 11,550 new jobs over a dtree to five year period.
'I/    See Chart 4 for the organization chart of the proposed sub-component.



-49-                          Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Table A.1: Overview of PMP Programs and Expected Outputs
Short-termn            Medium-term
Training Model (A)      Training Model fB)
Province                       Yr I  Yr 2  Yr 3       Yr I  Yr2  Yr 3    Total
North Sumatra                    2      8    10          1      4     5       30
West Java                         2     8    10          1      4     5       30
East Java                        2      8    10          1      4     5       30
Bali                             2      8    10          1      4     5       30
South Sulawesi                   2      8    10          1      4     5       30
Total Number of Programs        10    40    50           5    20    25       15I
Number of trainees per program    ------45      -       -         20--
Total trainees per model          ---- 4,500 ----       ------- 1,000
Estimated % graduate output   _     A_--- 70%         _         70% -50
Estimated number of graduates     ----- 3,150           -- _     700   -    3.850
Estimated number of jobs
created per model /a               - 9,450   ---              2,100 -      11.550
/a This assumes at dhee jobs are created per successful graduate.
Background
5.           The Government has had considerable experience in the field of young
entrepreneurship development programs for self-employment prior to the preparation of the proposed
Skills Development Project. In particular, the ILO/UNDP has been active in the field. Four
ILO/UNDP projects have been implemented since 1985. The first was a project to study the Role
of Women in Small Scale Industries in Rural Areas (INS/85/20). The second was the East Java
Regional Manpower Development and Training Project (INS/861016). Both of these projects
pioneered a number of strategies including the use of educational institutions and NGOs as services
providers. The projects also introduced the use of joint business groups and "motivators" into their
project designs.
6.           In 1989, the ILO/UNDP sponsored study, -Review of Entrepreneurship, Self-
employment and Informal Strategies", identified a number of issues that needed to be addressed in
the MOM's efforts to develop entrepreneurs. The study found that: (a) integrated and multi-faceted
programs are lacking; (b) too much emphasis was placed on narrowly focused skill training; (c)
trained entrepreneurs have difficulty accessing credit/capital; (d) the experience required to train and
establish new entrepreneurs has been underestimated; (e) the level of participation from private firms
is too low; and (f) more involvement is needed from private sector networks (e.g., NGOs, private
companies, state corporations, industry groups, and service clubs).



-50-                          Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
7.          The third ILO/UNDP project, Self-employment Program for Training Institutions
(INS/90/003), piloted short-term training programs through training institutions for students of those
institutions. The fourth project, the Local Enterprise Development Agency Program (INS/90/004),
piloted short-term training programs through community and private sector groups in an effort to
demonstrate the potential of these suppliers of entrepreneurship development services. These
projects, both small and experimental, attempted to address the concerns mentioned above (para. 6).
They were implemented in three provinces and were considered successful in piloting a short-term
training scheme with potential for natonal implementation. Over a two-year period, the ILO/UNDP
pilot programs experienced unit costs of about US$160 per participant enrolled; US$288 per business
established; and US$86 per ul-time job created.
8.           Other related projects included the Manpower Development and Trainmg Project
(World Bank: Loan 2705), the Central Java Enterprise Development Project (USAID) and the Linking
Banks Project (GTZ with the Bank of Indonesia). All of these projects generaly focused on the
development of low cost training programs that featured a minimm of training inputs (typicaly one
or two weeks), strong motivational development and limited follow-up counseling.
9.           In reviewing the available research and documentation on the above mentioned
projects, it is apparent that, for the most part, the projects aimed at developing smaUl businesses in
the informal sector. Although this is an important objective in the development of Indonesia, there
remains a need to gain more experience with approaches that would assist entrepreneurs to establish
small industry-based firms in the formal sector. The proposed sub-component would focus on this
aspect of entrepreneur development.
Objectives and Sub-component Design
10.          As briefly described above, the primary objective of the sub-component would be
to demonstrate clearly the viability of two different models to assist young professional entrepreneurs
to establish smal businesses. A second objective would be to identify the program factors that affect
the successful training of young entrepreneurs to establish industry-based firms in the formal sector.
A third objective would be to determine the scheme(s) of program delivery that would be most
appropriate for national replication as resources become available.
11.          The sub-component would implement a varying mix of programs and approaches
withmin the five participating provinces. The choice of program mix would be determined from a
review of: (a) differences in provincial and local management capacity; (b) availability of suitable
university and consultant support; and (c) socio-geographic factors. Each model program would
operate from its inception through the remaining duration of the project (one to three years).
Description of Models
12.         Short-term Training Model. The short-term training model was piloted on a limited
basis by ILO/UNDP in two of its projects (INS/90/003 and INS/90/004). The model would be
implemented in universities where young university graduates are readily available.2/ Each
participant would receive services for up to one year. The model features:
2/     The model was also successfully piloted with a few NGOs.



-51-                           Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
(a)    a structured selection of the participants (application and interview);
(b)   about 95 hours of targeted group training in the basic concepts of entrepreneurship,
management, marketing, production, and finance. Also included would be a case
study, and the preparation of a business plan by the trainees;
(c)   pre-business start-up support, including feedback on prepared business plans and
counseling to support the participants' applications for bank financing;
(c)   participant acquisition of credit/financing for capital costs associated with business
start-up of up to Rp 2.0 million. Each participant would have to self-finance at least
20% of the tota' financing package; and
(d)   post-business scart-up support, including participation in project established business
clubs, monitoring visits to the businesses by MOM Graduate Volunteers assigned to
the project, and follow-up counseling by project staff and consultants as required.
13.         Medium-term Training Model. The medium-term training model would offer a
similar, university-based approach except that the programs would be more focused on high
potential, small business areas in privawe industry. The program would also provide more depth and
concentration in its service delivery. To determine the small businesses with the highest potential,
a survey would be carried out in each province. The maximum level of credit/financing would also
be substantially higher than in the short-term training model. The following briefly describes the
services that would be offered to each trainee over a penod of about one year.
(a)    a structured selection of the participants (application and interview). The participants
would be screened to include only those who want to start new businesses in the
targeted areas determined in the study;
(b)   about 45 days of targeted group training in the basic concepts of entrepreneurship,
management, marketing, production, and fmance. Also included would be a case
study, and the preparation of a business plan by the trainees;
(c)   pre-business start-up support, including feedback on prepared business plans and
counseling to support the participants applications for bank financing;
(c)   participant acquisition of credit/financing for capital costs associated with business
start-up of up to Rp 5.0 million. Each participant would have to self-finance at least
20% of the total fmancing package; and
(d)   post-business start-up support, including participation in project established business
clubs, monitoring visits to the businesses by MOM Graduate Volunteers assigned to
the project, and follow-up counseling by project staff and consultants as required.
A modest number of technical, legal, and professional consultants would be available
on a daily contract basis to provide technical advisory services to the participants as
problems arise.



-52-                          Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Management and Implementation
14.         Guaranteed Loan Repayment Scheme. In the five provinces, the MOM/PIU would
establish a system whereby PMP participants could gain access to financing and credit to capitalize
their businesses following their completion of the program. As a guarantee against default, the
Government would deposit entirely from its own resources (i.e., without using the proposed loan
funds) US$0.5 million equivalent in the Bank of Indonesia./ These funds would be used to cover
losses incurred by Regional Development Banks due to default on participant loans.   The
administration of the loans and disbursement of funds would be through Regional Development Banks
with agreed upon guidelines that would be acceptable to the Bank. In general, the guidelines would
allow for the short-term training risk associated with capital loans for new business start-ups.
Typically, the loans would be approved through the Regional Development Banks' loan committee
according to the guidelines. In this process, each PMP participant would present a business plan and
would be eligible, based upon that plan, to receive a predetermined level of financing, depending
upon the type of program in which he or she participated.
15.         Technical Assistance Contractor.  To support the implementation of the sub-
component in the five provinces, a TA contractor would be selected to provide about four years of
international and 36 years of domestic consulting services. The contractor would be located at a
university in Bali and would provide technical advice, training and research services to the project.
16.         Administrative Structures. The MOM would be responsible for implementation of
the PMPs through appointed Private Sector Management Committees (PSMC). The MOM in
cooperation with the Governor's Office would establish PSMCs to provide oversight and private
sector input into the programs. The chairperson of the Committee would be chosen by the Governor
from the private sector. At least 50% of the Conmittee would represent the private sector. The
remamiing members would represent public sector industry and government. Each PSMC would be
supported by a Provincial Coordinator who would administer the day-to-day activities associated with
the implementation of the programs. The provincial coordinators would be employed as a part of
the TA contract (para. 15).
17.          The PSMC, in consultation with the MOM PIU, would select a key university, to
implement the first-year cycle of university-based programs (short-term and mediun-term training),
where the Provincial Coordinator would be located. During each of the two subsequent project
years, the PSMC would select additional institutions to participate in the program by implementing
short-term and medium-term training programs. Universities (with S 1 programs) would be selected,
according to guidelines agreeable to the Bank. During these years, the original key university would
serve as the hub institution, continuing to offer its programs, but also providing technical advice and
staff training to the other institutions.  Priority would be given to targeted programs for young
female entrepreneurs.
3/     The ILO/UNDP projects documented about 20% default in similar financing
arrangements.



-53-                         Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
INFORMATION SYMM FOR SELF-EMPLOYMENT
18.          As a subcomponent of the Young Professional Entrepreneur Development
Component, the project would finance the development and demonstration of a system to provide
resource information relating to self-employment. The intended recipients of these services would
be persons who are interested in self-employment and organizations that focus upon the development
of entrepreneurs. T he contract for the development and demonstration center would be awarded to
the PMP technical assistance contractor as a part of the PMP contract. The contractor and the MOM
full-time PMP Coordinator would conduct a three phase activity over a period of three years.
19.          During the first phase, lasting six months, the contractor would employ one full time
coordinator and two full-time information officers. A resource center would be established and the
contractor would conduct a study in the province of Bali to determine additional resource and
methodology requirements. Relevant materials on self-employment would also be prepared and
printed. A computerized, management information system/data base would also be developed, tested
and implemented by the contractor. This MIS/data base would be used in the management of the
system and would be a vehicle for data collection to support the study.
20.          During the second phase, lasting from month seven through month 18 of the project,
the center would become fully operational and data collection would be completed for the study.
During this period, participants would have full access to all available services.
21.          During the third phase, before month 24 of the project, the contractor and the full-
time PMP Coordinator would first host a mid-term review and evaluation of the subcomponent. The
MOM and Bank would participate in this activity. During this review, decisions would be made on
activities that would enhance the productivity of the information scheme. These may include the
implementation of a publishing program, short-term training teaching/workshop program,
establishment of a computerized information service, etc. During the last year of the third phase
these enhancements would be implemented and demonstrated. The Bank would review the
effectiveness of this investment through the Project Completion Report that would be required at the
completion of the project.
22.          It is anticipated that the center would provide information services to about 10,000
persons (estimated as one contact per person) over the duration of the project.
Impact Study
23.         In the above two project subcomponents, an impact study would be conducted
following the completion of project. Where appropriate, control groups would be selected early in
the project to provide comparative data to support the study.



-54-
EMDONESI                                                     c7
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           Page I of 3
(Inu..Iuu ad Naiuu.d hafsamnd
Componad an Field of C     _ants                                   LOiO=                  latrmstional        Nafional
L   Provinal Comnonmn
A. Comnv a rou,p Tnunha Semnbs                                                                  -                -
B. Individual Comamn Traini Seivos                                                              -                -
C. Tarsetd Taini for Jobekers
D. Small Enteus Tramm  and Advisor Seic
Small Enertisw Speaist  Ub d                                 3 PFT Poi                      -               252
Small Fteruwi Specialist (Fld4aed)                           3 T  Ptrois                    -               720
Sub4AIta                                                                                    -               972
E. ProiectAdministration
PTF Board Adviso                                             3 PI Pmvines                  108               -
&*-TdtgfPrWxgA                                                                               m               972
IL MhliabzotMnuuSmmw
A. YoungProfesional IaE _inz Dvv&     W Pao= M     M)
PMP Coordinat                                                Udayms WUv.                    24               -
FAkeq_arrabip Tminiug Sp                       ,             Udq'aUntv.                     24               -
Tniiung Oflier                                               tUdan Uiv.                     -                36
Business De" opmet OM=                                       tmr)nUda iv.                   -                36
Coordina  of Sef-emplymed nomation Systeui                   UdayWn Univ.                   -                36
Provincial Co _rdito in 5 Prvincs                            5 PMP Pmvices                  -               144
SUOab                                                                                       48              252
B. 1c La  Maket SfmaXo Sy
lAbor Mtkl_W   Sped"Et                                       MOM                            24               -
Syslems AndysioTgrarnma                                      MOM                            -                24
Module Design Sped"                                          MoM                            -                12
Smb4ot                                                                                      24               36
C. Sblff Traini at     _                                                                        -                -
D. Prenaration of PTF in SouA Sulaweni
Trainig Fund Specilist                                       8. Suahwed                      6               24
E. Imnc Evaluation Study h                                                                      -                -
F. Pmoect Admuinrstdon
Prqect Coordimkwr                                            MOM                            -                36
S4-Thal for MOM cAmeal                                                                       3        
GRNAD S  OTAl                                                                                IS6 pge3
/a See Artrm 7, page 3.



DWONESI
SKELLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
9Std_. and Trainng Requrenfa
SW   R-OUt
tinplazwntr            4Estimated Cost      St9ts of TOR (Dae)    Shost Lot (aDe)   Cot        for 9
Tp of TA/Aciviy                     Pose     ective                                     An                    Total/a      Pxon-   Pre  Bxpeted   Prepad Epcted Prqeped   RSI    HQ
S"Wo)    Month&                                               (Y)N)
A.                  &
1. PsCQonjs.                          PlwanqndCoAhmofPMP                                  Udaec tUn.               288       24  F      2i94                        6iS4      N               x
2. Thiang Officer                     P    and fitpanataiof PM? tating                     daumniv.                 43        36  L              5194               6J94      N               x
3. BusimDeelopmwtOffie                P    ad iwlat           fP wusag                    UW"    t v.               43        36  L              5/94               6194      N               x
4. CoGdistmof S.z4poymut              DtiOetfSi U niv.                                                              43        36  L               /994              6194      N               x
S. PiePPoviadscoordinats              C4omdtmtioi of PW  &AdvW% ofE MPpt4pua              SP P ptov                173       144 L               5/94               6J94      N               x         dh
6 Sy pe- A_  ysimPrpm                 DevWlopntofotc rput rs S     rLLMB                  MOm                       57        24  L              3,94               6/94      N               x          *
7. modeDesp Spece                     DenopubntofmcdleforLLMLS                            MOM                        17       12  L              3/94               6/94      N               x
8. Prjet cotdim O,eralcodion ofthepect                                                    Mom                       94        36  L              3/94               6S4       N               x
hubate                                                                                                           759      324 L
24 F
ILft*iadoni      mdvBWl
Pohdd C _xom
1. PrFBowdAdviscnr                                                                        3PlFBDow*               1,512      10S  F     2/94                        6194      N               x
3. &"1 tEH-sinS peci1is               Jd tsimfcanucityceve1opmntw                         3 PTFPtovine            1,300     972  L               6194               894       N               x
Sxb-ted                                                                                                        2,12       072 L
ZOE F
b F azet of omwni
lb F - Foremw ns  L - Lceal ofpfiiaL
The ipes =drpolicy Sb   repran the nerofi   asnd uvey to be eoducte&
>1



INDONES
SKlI~A DKVUAPMNT PPRWWFC
C*onMuItat  Stalks, ad Trabdn  Rephqutunts
StandEd   Responsibility
bpmmtizW                   t      Cost.    9tau ofTOR mate)         bzt Lit (Date)   Contact  fr^ 9ast
Type of TA/Activity                  PnpoAe     ive                                        Agncies                Totl /a,     Perc o- red Expcted   Ptepared Eected  Pr              d   RSI    HQ
(USSVOO)    MoUh /b                                             (Y/N)
1. EuBpnbTr    gSpecmi                  Phkm*gnd   n         _Uxmtatkoo(aiuing                Udayuniv.                 288       24  P      2194                         6/94       N               x
2. LaborbMedestfaiunmtiwSpecialist      OveaU wordiration andde        ofLl                   Mom                       288       24  F      2t94                         6t94       N               x
3. TAndagFundSpecialist                 Dldopnetnmdppation of PTF c e                        S Sulwedsi                  72        6  F      2/94                         6S4        N               x
4. Trainn Fund Specist                  Develtopeas mndpaV.stionofPTF                        S.      i                   40       24  L               5/94                6(94       N               x
&lb,oadat                                                                                                           &do         24 L
S4 F
FeU.wA4,a Dvfliag ed W,*ahora
1. Ov _mFellosbips                      Staff traini  and deelpment ofthe MOM               tUiveritin aboad          t,505       59                  N.A                 NA       NA                x
2. Ovee  Taling                         Omseaaot-m ntraming farM om and PlF   saff           swrd releant               577       9S                  N.A                 NA        N.A              x
3. hoctyTraW                            Stafin   md detopment of thMOM mominsinc in                                     781      139                  NA                  N.A      N.A               x         Q
idwonesia
4. IntbyW orlmhops                      Tra     nd des d lopme   wMOM nd PTF staff           Sed uince  in              679      925                  NA                  N.A.    NA                  x
Indonesia
Sab4stl                                                                                                            3,S52    1,218
1. Induty lduentiatio Study             Supot for PMn madim-oat optimn                                                  119       25                  6/94                8/94       N               x
2. Extablislment Survey                 Loedl Abor Macet  omon System Imrvement                                          76        4                  10/94               12/94      N                x
3. Labor Foe Survey                     Loca Labor Madot Infornation Systemproven                                        19        2                  4/95                6/95       N                x
4. Reserh on Labor Maket hinotion       Loca Labor Maiost lnoforation Syte  mrovmnt                                      86        3                  4/95                6195       N                x
S. Eitabli9nnet Smvey                   Prq,tion of PTF  in South Sulawesi                                               71        2                  4195                6/95       N               x
6. P jecdu ctlivaluatbon  Study and     mpactenationfthe poposed project nd                                             430        14                 6/95                Sl9S       N                x
Tchnical Audits                      audng ofpject perihm                                                                                          10/94                12/94
Sub4otl                                                                                                              801        SO
/a  Bdte are not of ontitVenlies
lb   P    P-ipofiessionk L - Locd Profsionals.
The fgures tder Policy S  r     nt therUber of sudies  d survep to be conducted.
'.4



-57-                                 Annex 8
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBITlES
BY AGENCIES AND DIRECTORATES
Responsible Agency
Component & Subcomponet                         and Persons                        SAR Reference
1.     Provincial Component/a
a.  Company Group Training Services         PTF Board, KADIN/APINDO &          paras. 3.4-3.5
Participating Pirms
b.  Individual Company Training Services    PTF Board, Participating           paras. 3.6-3.7
Firms, & Private and Public
Training Providers
c.  Targeted Training of Job-seekers         PTP Board, & Public and           para. 3.8
Private TWaining Providers
d.  Small Enterprise Training               PTF Board, Participating           paras. 3.9-3.10
& Advisory Services                     Firms & Consultants
2.      Mostry f Mannower Comnoentlb
a.  Young Professional Entrepreneur         MOM, Board of Planning &           paras. 3.13-3.17
Development Progmm (PMP)               Development, Participating Universities,
Consulting Firm(s), & NGOs
b.  Local Labor Market Information System   MOM, Board of Planning &           paras. 3.18-3.19
Development
c.  Staff Training & Development            MOM, Board of Planning &           pam. 3.20
Development, Participating Universities
(domestic and internadonal)
d.  Prepartion of PTF in                    MOM, Board of Planning &           para. 3.21
South Sulawesi                          Development, Provincial Government
of South Sulawesi, & Consultants
/a Consultants would be contracted through PTF Boards.
/b Consultants would be contracted through MOM, Board of Planning and Development.



-58-
INDONESIA                                        Annex 9
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Page 1 of 5
PROJECT AcTImvEs AND MPLEmETATION SCEDULEs
PitoVINcIL COMPONENT: WESr JAVA PROVINCE
1994                 1995                   1996                  1997
ID    Name                                             Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  ApT  Jul  Ou   Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul
1    Appointment of Chairperson
2    Appointment of Board members
3    Appointment of CTA (intl consultant)
4    Appointment of executive director
5    Board approval of training fund criteria
6    Board meesing
7    Appointment of the rest of PIU staff
8    Acquisition of Board and PIU facilies
9    Coninuaton of staff training
10   Procurement of equipment for CGTUs and others
11   Production & ditribution of promotional materials
12   Intaion of industry advisory services
13   Submission & review of traininh proposals
14   Board approval of training contracts
15   Board meeting
16   initiation of small enterprise dev. services
17   Inition of contract monitoring & evaluation
18   Board approval of CGTU proposals
19   Establishment of 7 CGTUs 1Ist yr)
20   Board neeting
21   Review & approval of job-seeker training contracts
22   Review & approval of contract for KADIN/APINO1
23   Review & approval of new traning managers
24     oard meeting (every month during the prolect)
26   Preparation/Establishment of 15 COTUs (2nd yr)
26   Bank/Govt first annual review
27   Preparation/Establishment of 8 CGTUs (3rd yr)
28   Bank/Govt second annual review                                                                     9
29   8anklGovt final review
Cti0cal            _             MilPstoage 1
Norcrtirmeal                     Summarv  _F
Prrogress      _        _        RoDrjd UpO
Pagej I



-59-
INDONESIA                                        Annex 9
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Page 2 of 5
PROJECT ACTVrTS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
PROVICNuL COMPONENT: EAST JAVA PROVINCE
_1I94       1        1995 Isr                                    1997
1I   Name                                              Apr |Jul |ct Jan  Apr  Jul LOct I Jan  _Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Ju
1    Appointment of Chairperson
2    Appointment of Board members
3    Appointment of CTA (int'1 consultant)
4    Appointment of executive director
5    Board approval of training fund criteria
6    Board meeting
7    Appointment of the rest of PIU staff
8    Acquisition of Board and PIU facilities                U         |
9    Continuation of staff training
10   Procurement Of equipment for COTUs and others
11   Production & distribution of promotional materials
1 2   Initiation of Industry advisory services
13   Submission & review of training proposals
14   Board approval of training contracts                   ___
16   Board meeting
16   Initiation of small enterprise dev. services            _      l
17   InWation of contract monitoring & evaluation            _
1 8   Board approval of CGTU proposals
19   Establishment of 7 CGTUs (lst yr)
20   Board meeting
21   Review & approval of job-seeker training contracts _
22   Review & approval of contract for KADIN/APINDO
23   Review & approval of new training managers                                                                 /
24   Board meeting (every month during the proJect)
25   Preparation/Establshment of 15 CGTUs (2nd yr)
26   Bank/Govt first annual review                                               1
27   Preparation/Establishment of 8 CGTUs (3rd yrl                                          I i
28   Eank/Govt second annual review                                                                                !
2     BankiGovt final review                                           I
Critical                         Milestone  -
Noncritical                      Summary        _
Progress                         Rolled Up   C
Page 1



-60-
INDONESIA                                         Annex 9
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      Page 3 of 5
PROJECT AClTvrTES AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
PROVINCIAL coMpoNENT: NORTH SUMATRA
1994        j         1996                  1996                   1997
ID    Name                                              Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul
1    Appointmetnt of Chairperson
2    Appointment of Board members
3    Appointment of CTA (int'I consultant)
4    Appointment of executive director
5    Board epproval of training fund criteria
6    Board meeting
7    Appointment of the rest of PIU staff
8    Acquisition of Board and PIU facilWes                   U
9    Continuation of staff training
10   Procurement of equipmnent for CGTUs & others
I11    Production & distributon of promotional materials
|12 IniWation otfindustrV advisory servees
1 3   Submission & review of training proposals                   7
_-_    __            _                                                                           -        I=.
14    Board approval of training contracts
15   Board meeting
16   Initiaion of small enterprise dev. services
17   initiation of contract moritoring & evaluation
18   Board approva. of CGTU proposals
19    Establshmnem of 5 CGTUs l7st yr*
20    Board meeting
21    Review & approval of job-seeker training ommracts _
22    Review & approval of contract for KADIN/APINDO
23    Review & approval of new training managers
24    Board meeting (every month during the project)
25    Preperaton/Establishment of 6 CG%TUs (2nd yr)
26    BanklGovt ffrat annual review
27   Preparation/Establishment of 5 CGTUs (3rd yr)
28   BanklGovt second annual review                                                           I          0
29    BankiGovt final review 
Critical                          Milestone  +
Noncritical                       Summary _
Progress                          Rolled Up  O
Page 1



-61-
INDONESIA                                       Annex 9
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                    Page 4 of 5
PROJECT ACTIVTIES AND ImPLEMENTATioN SCHEDULES
M4SYRY OF MANPOWER COMPONENF
1994        j        1995                  1990                  1997
ID    Name                                            Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct I Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul
1    Appointment of MOM PIU Director
2    Appointment of staff & PIU consultants
3    Acquisition of MOM PIU faciles ls
4    Procurement of MOM PIU equipment
5    Review and modification of study TORs
6    Preparation of tenders for study consulutnts
7    iniation of tendering for study consultants
8    Awarding of contracts to study consultants
9    Initiation of studies
10   identifiaton of future MOM staffing needs
I I   Identification of staff development recipients
12   identifieation of training needs and sites
13   Initaton of Ph.D fellowship programs
14   itiation of MA fellowship programs
15   InWoitiatn of pre-departure language training (2nd groupl
16   Matchhg of recipients to requirements f
17   initation of MA fellowship programs (2nd group)
18   Itiation of short term training aeivites
19   Metngs regarding LLMIS
20   Inter-mlnisterial agreements on LLMIS
21   Procurement of LLMIS equipment
22 Appointment of LLMIS staff and consultants
23   Acquisition of ULMIS facilities
24   InWation of LLMS demonstraion activifes                                                                          /
25   Meetings re: S. Sulawesi activies
26   Appointment of staff for S. Sulawesi activities
27   Appointment of S. Sulawesi consultants
28   Initiation of S. Sulawesi activities.
29   Meeting regarding PMP
30   Govemors appointment of PSMC Chairpersons
31   Govemors appointment of PSMC members
Critical      _         _        Milesrone  -
Noncritical                      Summary        _
Progress                         Rolled Up  O
Page 1



-62-
INDONESIA                                        Annex 9
SKILLS DEVELOPMEN PROJECT                                      Page 5 of 5
PROJECT ACTVTIE AND IMPLEmeNTATION SCHEDuLEs
MINISRY OF MANPOWER COMPONENT - CONTINUD
1994                 1995                  1996                  1997
ID    Name                                             Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul. Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct  Jan  Apr  Jul
32   Meeting of Private Sector Mgt. Committees
33   Appointment of PMP province coordinators
34   Preparation of tender docs, for all contracts
35   Initiation of tender for TA contractor
36   Initiaton of tenders for PMP contractors
37   MOM/PIU selection of TA contractor
38   MOM/PIU/PSMC selection of key universities
39   Establishment of TA contractor In Bali
40   Private Sector Mgt. Committee meeting                            t
41   Approval of PMP university contracts
42   Approval of PMP consultant contracts
43   Initiation of PMP programs
44   Bank/Govt first annual review
45   Bank/Govt second annual review
46    fank/Govt final review                                          j
Critical       -                 Milestone  *
Noncritical                      Summary        _
Progress                         Rolled Up  O
PFle 2



-63-
Ae 10
Page I of 3
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Qualtative and Process lIdicators
Unit of                   lxpected Improvements
Indicator                                 Measurement                through Duration of Project
PII/PTF Beard MNNWnt
1.  Cyoletimne for training proposals from     % ofredAction in          Th PWUPTF boards will reduce the cycle-tim  for procing
industry.                                 timefrom submission        of contrats by 10% each yew of the project.
to award ofconrcts
2.  Cost-reovry with  projet raining           % of reduction in          The PUIPTF boards will reduce the Govenment imancing
ac tiviti                                   oven financing           share from 80% the firt year, to 60% the secend yea, to 30%
sharefor ndustiy izg.     the third yea of the project
3.  Board effcienoy.                           Frequey of PT?F             Ie PrF boards wil meet as presrbed by agreed qwdlines
board metins  and         and there will be at least 80M  tdance at all meetn .
vwl of attendance at
board meetings
4.  Program promotion/awareness ativities.     % of inreae in level of    The PIUT  F boards will systematicaly ir    the number
activites over duralion   of pronotion/awareness activitis by 15% per yea over
ofprofect                 durtion of projecL
S.  Employer satisfation with trainin and      high scores on anmad       The PTF boards will candut an annal survey of clieat
avisory services.                          employer                  companioe and wil recive a high scre tht inicates a bigh
level of employer satisctiCon
6.  Capacity to maindain internal Gosts for    avaiility ofcors           Ding Bank review missi, the PIUs:PT! boards wil
acoeptable for emvo delivery              showing actual unit        provide records showg atual osb of all service previdcd
costs forallserices
Compsm GIUn T]alna Seavie
7.  Incr    in leve of CGTU oompany            % of Increase in number    Exting CGTUs wil mincase thi company membeship by
membership.                                of new companies          15% per yearwtrough durtion of project
joining CTUs
S.  Increase in availability of tining services  %6 of Increase In number    TIe CGTUs wil ince mmbr of sted taing atvitics
offbed thsough COTUs.                     oftraining activites       within companics by 25% each 7'v of the project
offered in member
companies
Job PeTc
9.  Parioipation of private sic  sector        % ofparticfpation of       The peetge of Job Seeker Training servioes pravided
providers.                                prfvate sector serice      toug priat organizats  wiU ince  by 15% each year.
providers
yeqm ProtaJin Entmwwu
Develcnent Pom   MPs
10. Acc  of paticipants to cdit                % of PA? grad&ates        Tne PMP will provide 1000A ofall gradua  who apply for
who actuaily receive      credit to fimane new entise statup.
access to credit
Local labor Market nforsnlon System (LLMIS)
11. Information diemination and quaity.        Dissemination of           A rang of dissemination methods to bc used, such as
information every 6       reports, newletes, and flien. The quality of infomation
montls                    will improve.
12. Satisfion of users with LLMIS              High user satisfaction     MOM will conduct two surveys of usen durgin the projecL
with tke rnformation      User satifiction will increase.
8gtff Dewlonrnent
13. Return on iNetment in staff aining.        % ofplacement in key      Following oompletion of tramm& 90% of all feDowship
management and            grduates wiUl reeive key positions within t  MOM.
techntealpositions
following completfon
of training



INDONESIA
SIULLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Quanitativ  Indiators for the Provbca Comnp ent
Unit of                     1994                           1995                                      1996                          1997
hIndcr                                               Memansrt                   Q3        Q4         Ql        Q2        Q3        Q4         Ql        Q2         Q3        Q4         Ql        Q7         Total
North Swmnt Prevbm
1 .Establishmtof CGTUs                                   ofCGTUs                    5        -          -         -          5                   -                              -          -         -           Is
2  Appo       fnewtai     gma                            pesn-monl                  45        45         45        45       150       150         150       150       105       105        105       105        1.200
3. Tra       dedtxpr  uade   CGTUs                       person-week               900       900        900       900      I.S00     1,800      1.800     1,800     2.700     2,700      2.700     2 700       21,600
4  TrgpdtrwouvinonCGTSU                                  person-weec              1,150    1.150       1.150     1.150     1.150     1,150      1.150     1,150     1.150     1.150      1.150     1.15G       13.S00
S. Tang povided forjob kers                              pewe                      256       256        256       256       256       256        256        256      256        256        256       256        3.072
6. Traini-related placement                              percentag                85%       S5%         85%       85%       85%       85%        85%       85%       85%       S5%        85/       85%          85%
7  Advismy smic'forsmaU oenterpfise                      COfms                      36        36         36        36        36        36          36        36        36        36         36        36         432
S. Trainngforemployeesofsmalleeruis                      perso-eek                 120       120        120       120       120        120        120       120       120       120        120       120        1.440
9. Ovassh ost-tem trainirg(3rmnls)                       pe-week                    -         -          -          -        60         -          -         -                   -          -         -            60
10  Oversesshsort-remmtaining(2weeks)                    pe-week                     -         20         -         -         -         20          -         -         -         -          -         -           40
Wedt JiVs Province
1. Eatlisl=o  ntofCOTUs                                 VofCGTUs                     7        -          -         -         Is                   -          -          S        -          -         --          30
2  Appontnentofnew ainingmanage                          person.mnntb              135       135        135       135       450       450        450       450        315       315        315       315        3.6o00
3  Trainnprovided Cuough CGTUs                           p-wek                   1.770     1.770       1.770     1.770     3,540     3,540      3.540     3.540     5,310     5,310      5,310     5,10        42,4S0     4
4  Train n provided tbroh non-COTUs                      peson-week              2.000     2,000       2.000     Z00       200       200        2,000     2.000     2.000     2.000      2.000     2,000       24,000
5. Traming povrded forjob-ws                            person-week                420       420        420       420       420       420        420       420       420       420         420       420        5,040
6  Triing-related paemet                                 percentage               85%       85%        S5%        85%       85%      85% S5%               85%       85%       85%        85%       85%          85%
7. Advisy evices for small entrisea                      # of fins                 144       144        144       144       144       144         144       144       144       144        144       144        1.728
8  Trainingforanployees of snl entepises                p-week                     360       360        360       360       360       360        360       360       360       360         360       360        4,320
9. Over  seasx-term tramnin (3 montls)                   pe-wek                     -         -          -         -         60        -           -         -         -         -          -         -           60
10  Orsea shorterm taining (2 weeks)                     pem wkwe                    -         20         -         -         -         20         -         -         -         -           -         -           40
7gZJaraPnc
1  3Establishmen ofCOTUs                                #ofCGTUs                     7        -          -         -         15        -          -         -          S         -          -         -           30
2. Appoinbnertofnrwtrsinnmannager                       persnonth                  135       135        135       135       450       450        450       450        315       315        315       315        3.600
3. Traning proided ?-ugh COTUs                           pe-wk                   1.770     1,770       1,770     7,770     3,540     3,540      3,540     3,540     5,310     5,310      5,310     5.310       42480
4  Trainig prvded forjo-ks                               peron-we                  420       420        4tI       420       420       420        420        420       420       420        420       420        5.040
5. Trainretatedplaceent                                  percentage               85h      85%        85%        85%      85%       85%         85%       85%       85%h      85%        85%       85%         85%
6  Advisozysemvicesformasllnnterpe                       # offrms                  144       144        144       144       144       144         144       144       144       144        144       144        1,728
7  Trainig for employees of small ernerprises            pers-week                 360       360        360       360       360       360         360       36CG      360       360        360       360        4,320
8  Ovem asmshort-t7mbaining(3mmnt)                       pe-wk                      -         -          -         -         60        -           -         -         -         _          _         -           60
9  Ovsserashsorttermtr..mmng(2weeks)                     perso-week                 -         20          -        -         -         20          -         -                                                    40
o X



INDONESiA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Quantittve Indicators for the M stry of Manpower Coimponent
Unit of                    1994                        1995                                   1996                        1997
Indicato                                           Measurement              Q3       Q4         Q1       Q2       Q3       Q4         Ql       Q2       Q3        Q4        Q1       Q2        Total
Youe Profesiond Eutrepnneur Dewvlomrnat Premg    PMPi
(Each of the S Partidcatin, Prov4nus
1. Gradusta fim nsho*nn mode (STM)                    # ofaduates              45        -         45       -        180       -        10       -        225       -        225        -          900
2. Busin    strted mnong STMaduxtes                   # of budsne              -         32        -        32        -       126        -        126       -       158        -        15B         630
3. Jobsc atced dfough&wbuiesestdazted la              #ofjobs                   -        -         -         95       -        95        -        373       -       378        -        473       1,418
4. Graduateureem mediumrtenmodcls (MTM)               # ofWaduat"               20       -         -         -        t0       -         -         -       100       -         -         -          200
5. Buosineses,tedamongMTMgaduates                    t#ofbusiese               -         14        -        -         -        56        -        -         -        70        -         -          140
6. Jobs artdthroughthebusin a saitd la                #ofjobs                  -         -         -        42        -        -         -        168       -        -         -        210         420
StafrTrainin and Develonmen
1. Pers std  aovasT Ph.D. feowsh                      pei                       3        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         -        -             3
2. Pasons, s doovasem.LA. ftbowsbips                  prmon                     10       -         -        -         15       -         -        -         -        -         -         -           25 
3. Pas  sotned domes   PhhD. program                  Peson                     3        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -            3
4. Per    sdstud doentic   LA. progrms                peon                      30       -         35       -         -        -         -         -        -        -         -         -           65
S. Doesetic td-tum  baining                           person-montl             -         60        60       -        120      120        -        120      120       -         -         -          600
Load Labor MNiret InforlUon System
1. Amud a        _sbshuts                             gmgr                     -    -               4    -    -    -                     -    -    -    -                      -    -                 4
2. Am1rbfmomsuwv(Sakad)                                aUrwY                   -         -         -        -          2    -            -        -         -        -         -         -            2
3. Saninsmllabora tintrmaldone s                      ropt                      -        -         -        -          4       -          4        -         4       -          4        -           16
4. Inceatry 1-week wcdawps                            perso-week                -        -         -        -         -       190       140        -        -        -         -         -          330
5. hnoomwry 3 weekIikg                                pson-ek                            -         -        -         -       510        90       90      10        -         -        -          870
6. Owsem siort4orm twmg (2 wees)                      psek                     -         -         40    -            40    -            -        -         _        _         _         _           80
at Total umber ofjobs creatd wil not become appat for a fow yom dter tob en of dhe projt
olIV
O;Q



-66-                          Annex 11
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNED SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Length
Timning         (in Week)  Nature of Mission   Team Composition
1.    April 1994        2        Start-up            Economist
2                            Training Specialist
1                            Financial Specialist (RSI)
2.    September 1994    2        Full Supervision    Econon'iri
2                            Traininf  -cialist
I                            FinanciaW  ecialist (RSI)
3.    February 1995     2        Full Supervision    Economist
2                            Training Specialist
I                            Financial Specialist (RSI)
4.    June 1995         2        Annual Review       Economist
2                            Training Specialist
2                            Training Fund Specialist (Consultant)
5.    October 1995      2        Full Supervision    Economist
2                            Training Specialist
I                           Financial Specialist (RSI)
6.    February 1996     2        Full Supervision    Economist
2                            Training Specialist
1                           Financial Specialist (RSI)
7.    June 1996         2        Annual Review       Economist
2                            Training Specialist
2                            Training Fund Specialist (Consultant)
8.    November 1996    2         Full Supervision    Economist
2                            Training Specialist
2                            Financial Specialist (RSI)
9.    May 1997          2         Final Supervision  Economist
2        PCR Preparation     Training Specialist
2                            Financial Specialist (RSI)
2                            Training Fund Specialist (Consultant)



-67-                          Annex 12
Page I of 5
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR PROGRAM EVALUATION
Objectives
1.          A first objective of the monitoring and evaluation activities is to monitor the
implementatioil of SDP interventions or a continuous system-wide basis, so as to assure the project's
quality, timeliness and effectiveness. A second objective is to measure the impact of SDP's major
programs (PMP, CGTU, employment of new training managers in firms, and the training and
advisory services for small firms) on the performance and productivity of enterprises and to assess
the efficacy and overall cost-effectiveness of these major programs and their different support
modalities. To this end, the evaluation framework for the proposed project comprises a range of
monitoring and evaluation instruments, namely: (a) program-wide annual operational reviews;
(b) semi-annual progress reports from the PIUs; (c) detailed case studies compiled by the training
fund PIUs; and (d) rigorous program impact-evaluation analyses of SDP's major programs, including
a cost-benefit study of major program interventions. The Bank would review each of these
evaluations at the appropriate annual reviews, and agree with the Government on any action plans
or project modifications to be undertaken as a result.
Monitoring
2.          Program-Wide Annual Operational Reviews. The annual operational reviews would
analyze for each project activity, the previous year's performance, budget allocation and
expenditures, and would complete the detailed set of monitoring indicators and progress review
criteria agreed with the Bank. An operational plan for the next year would be prepared using the
same format.
3.          Semi-Annual Progress Reports at the PIU Level. Each PIU would prepare semi-
annual progress reports summarizing the key monitoring indicators and contrasting the actions
programmed with the actions actually undertaken over the previous six-month period.
4.          Detailed Case Studies. Each training fund PIU would also document a limited
number of case studies, aimed at illustrating both the quantitative and qualitative effects of the SDP
interventions. The case studies would focus on one or more areas of impact, documenting the effects
of SDP actions on individual firms, on groups of firns, and on the creation of new businesses
through PMP. The case studies would provide important insights into the more qualitative effects
of SDP interventions, and contribute to SDP's dissemination/demonstration strategy.
Program Impact Evaluation Study
5.          The Program Impact Evaluation Study will design a data collection strategy and
develop a methodology to evaluate the effects of SDP's major programs. The objectives of the
impact evaluation study are: (a) measure the impact of interventions on improving the performance
and productivity of enterprises and their workers and on the creation and sustainability of new
enterprises created through PMP; (b) to assess the overall cost-effectiveness of SDP's major



-68-                         Annex 12
Page 2 of 5
programs; and (c) to develop improved productivity measures by relating the qualitative
improvements to quantitative outcomes such as outputs or inputs.
6.          Data Requirements. The first part of the study is intended to develop the data bases
needed to evaluate SDP's major programs and to improve the effectiveness of SDP support for
existing enterprises and for the PMP. This effort should be designed to institutionalize evaluation
capabilities in MOM. It will require: (a) routine and ongoing collection of key economic data for
each diagnosis; (b) use of a common format for recording data across provincial and MOM PIUs;
(c) familiarizing all promoters with evaluation concepts and methodologies; (d) surveys of selected
enterprises to measure post-intervention outcomes; and (e) use of a control group of enterprises'
individuals in assessing the impact of the CGTU, employment of new training managers in firms,
training and advisory services for small fms and PMP. Development of the data base would be
undertaken as follows:
(a)   Background data on a time-series of key economic variables would be collected from
all enterprises during the diagnosis that precedes the actual intervention. This
practice of collecting a common set of variables should be institutionalized for all
interventions. The kinds of data collected may vary by major program type, and be
limited for small firms and more comprehensive for medium and large firms. This
would not apply for PMP.
(b)   Diagnoses should include information on key variables for a minimum of the two
most recent years. The data should include year-end levels of production and the
mnmber of workers (from which labor productivity is calculated). Contemporaneous
data on the enterprise-average wage rates, product quality indicators and other
qualitative information-should also be collected where relevant.
(c)   In each province two representative groups offirms should be selected, one a group
of firms that will experience an SDP intervention and one to serve as a control group.
Similarly, a group of individuals who will meet the selection criteria, but will not
experience the PMP intervention, will be selected as a control group for that
program. The first group of firms and new PMP enterprises should be given a
follow-up survey one year after the intervention to elicit information on intervention
outcomes. The control group firms should be selected from diagnoses conducted in
the same year as the follow-up survey. The impact of SDP on the first group of
firms may be inferred from comparing outcomes with pre-intervention data provided
by the control group. The impact of PMP would be inferred by measuring the
outcomes of the new PMP small companies and the control group one year after the
intervention started, followed by a survey of these same groups, one year later.
(d)   Follow-up surveys should provide information on the levels and changes in key
economic outcomes one year after the intervention, as well as information on the
qualitative changes and improvements that are directly attributable to the intervention.
The latter may include questions from the original survey, as well as new questions
on other outcomes. The design of this survey instrument should begin when the
original evaluation is completed, and its methodology, limitations, and findings
thoroughly discussed. A small pilot survey should be undertaken to test and refine
this instrument.



-69-                         Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
(e)   The first follow-up survey should be undertaken in 1995 of samples of existing
enterprises that experienced an intervention in 1994 and of the control group and new
companies that started under PMP in 1994, and elicit retrospective data for the year
1994-95. By 1994, the training fund PIUs would have adopted a common format for
the diagnoses that would be used as a control group for the follow-up survey of
existing enterprises.
(f)   A second survey should be undertaken in 1997 of a similar sized sample of
interventions in 1996. Diagnoses already exist for these enterprises, so the follow-up
survey need focus only on collecting outcome data for 1996-97. For existing
enterprise-related programs, the outcomes should be compared to the outcome from
a control group of enterprises given a diagnosis in 1997. The objective of this
second survey should be to evaluate SDP major program interventions and to improve
existing services.
7.          Evaluation Analyses. The objective of the second part of the study is to evaluate
the impact of SDP's major program interventions on the performance of enterprises and PMP, using
the data described in para. 6. Amalysis should focus on evaluating the cost-effectiveness of SDP's
major programs, measuring the relative effectiveness of different kinds of SDP interventions, and
developing better measures of productivity by relating changes in physical output measures to
improvements in various qualitative outcomes. The analyses should be designed to yield concrete
recommendations for improving the quality of SDP support for enterprises and PMP.
8.          The evaluation should include the following tasks:
(a)   Degning a program impact measurement methodology. This methodology
should take into account the following considerations:
(i)  The impact of an intervention can be measured by comparing outcomes against
the pre-intervention measures of the same enterprise or that of a control group
of firms/individuals. The analyst should make an assessment of whether the
alternative measures yield different conclusions. A control group will not be
necessary for PM?.
(ii) For existing finms, a control group should be selected from the data bases
obtained through the initial diagnoses. To the extent possible, the control group
selected should resemble the enterprises to receive an intervention, particularly
with respect to industry and fim size. The selection of the control group for
PMP is described in para. 6(c).
(iii) In measuring impacts, checks for accuracy, consistency of responses across
questions, and avoidance of double-counting should be ensured. These
concerns should be reflected in the methodology for quantifying each outcome
and summing across outcomes to get a total program impact.
(iv)  Both quantitative and qualitative outcomes should be analyzed. The quantitative
impacts may include increased production/sales, and labor productivity, and
reduced inventories, materials use, and job turnover. For PMP, the quantitative
aspects may include production/sales, number of employees and type of
business. The qualitative impacts may include better product quality, improved



-70-                          Annex 12
Page 4 of 5
systems for cost accounting, identification of new products and markets, new
forms of work organization, improved worker incentives, morale and attitudes
towards work, and work conditions.
(b)   Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of SDP.  The evaluation should relate
quantifiable benefits of the intervention to the total direct and indirect costs associated
with that support. The total cost of each SDP intervention has to be measured, taking
into account the cost of all elements (the PIU, intervention mechanisms, etc.) that
may be justifiably allocated to it (e.g., on the basis of promoter's time or cost of the
intervention). Private costs should also be measured, including all direct costs borne
by the enterprise (tuition, wages and salaries of workers involved, and materials use)
and the opportunity costs incurred by workers when participation occurs outside
regular working hours (imputed using average hourly wage rates).
(c)    Sensitivity-analysis should also be conducted.  Cost-benefit estimates can be
sensitive to assumptions about both benefits and costs. The sensitivity of estimated
cost-benefit ratios or internal rates of return calculations should be assessed for a
variety of alternative assumptions. These may include assumptions about the period
over which benefits are accumulated, the time path of such benefits, and the inclusion
of increasingly more comprehensive categories of direct and indirect costs.
(d)   Different kiLds of SDP services. The collected data should be analyzed for insights
into the effectiveness of different interventions. These analyses should be possible
through a judicious selection of firms provided with different kInds of SDP support.
(e)   An effort should be made to develop improved measures of productivity. The
empirical relationships between quantitative and more qualitative outcome measures
should be studied (e.g., What impact does introducing a just-in-time inventory system
have on changes in inventory levels? How effective is it to train workers without
parallel improvements in work organization or supervisory control?   Do
improvements in product quality and timeliness of supply translate into increased
sales for the enterprise?) The separate, and joint, effects of qualitative improvements
on quantitative outcomes should be investigated using regression models. The results
may be used to infer the likely productivity or cost-saving effects of changes in
qualitative outcomes that are the target of SDP services.
9.           Consultant Proposals.  Technical assistance should be provided by outside
consultants. Consultants should have demonstrated expertise in evaluation studies, familiarity with
current developments in evaluation methods, and experience using the econometric methodologies
described in paras. 7-8.
10.          Schedule. Enterprise performance data would be collected by training fund PIUs on
a systematic and continuous basis beginning in 1994. Prior to the commencement of the survey, a
draft questionnaire would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. The first follow-up
survey would be fielded in 1995 to a sample of enterprises and those PMP participants who
experienced an intervention in 1994. The first evaluation study would be completed by December
31, 1995.



-71-                         Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
11.         The second follow-up survey would be fielded in 1997 to a sample of 1996
interventions for existing enterprises and to a sample of 1994, 1995 and 1996 interventions for PMP.
The evaluation study based on this survey would be completed by October 31, 1997, and the results
would be used for overall project evaluation in the project completion report.



INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals ncluding Contingencies (Rp Million)                (US$ Million)
1994/95     1995/96     1996/97        Total     1994/95   1995196   1996197    Total
A. Eqcipment                                 2,356.7      855.4        555.2      3,767.3        1.1       0.4       0.3       1.8
B. Fumnite                                    124.0       129.8         81.5       335.3         0.1       0.1       0.0       0.2
C. Temhnical Assistance
lntemationa Consultant                  2,066.9      2,233.8     1,232.3     5,533.0         1.0       1.0       0.6      2.6
National Consultant                      1,374.6     1,491.6     1,567.2     4,433.4         0.7       0.7       0.7      2.1
Research and Survey                       335.5       881.2        625.2      1.841.9        0.2       0.4       0.3       0.9
Sub-total                               3,777.0      4,606.6     3,424.7    11,808.3         1.9       2.1       1.6       5.6
D. Fellowships                                831.9      1,723.5     1,084.9      3,640.3        0.4       0.8       0.5       1.7
E. Training and Workshops
Overseas Training                         518.9       682.7        116.7     1,318.3         0.2       0.3       0.1       0.6
In-CountryTraining                        516.7       788.0        555.8     1,860.5         0.3       0.4       0.3       1.0
hi-Country Workshops                      591.5       517.4        501.4     1,610.4         0.3       0.2       0.2       0.7
Sub-total                                1,627.1     1,988.1     1,173.9     4,789.2         0.8       0.9       0.6      2.3
F. Enteneur Training Programs
PMP Training Services                     319.1       658.1       921.3       1,898.5        0.2       0.3       OA       0.9
PMP Guaranteed Fund                     1,116.3         0.0         0.0      1.116.3         0.5       0.0       0.0       0.5
Sub-total                               1,435.5       658.1       921.3      3,014.9         0.7       0.3       0.4       1.4
G. Provincial Training Fund
PTF Training Services                   6,374.1     12,918.7    15,699.3    34,992.1         3.0       6.1       7.5      16.6
PTF Technical Services                   1936A.      3.696.8     4,932.1    10,565.3         0.9       1.8       2.3       5.0
Sub-total                               8,310.5    16,615.5    20,631.4    45,557.4          3.9       7.9       9.8     21.6
H. Project Management
HonorariaandSalary                        642.7      1,137.9     1,521.0     3,301.6         0.3       0.6       0.7       1.6
Travel Expenses                           642.1      1,054.9     1,149.0     2,846.0         0.3       0.5       0.6       1.4
Consumable Materials                      421.8       676.0        885.9     1,983.7         0.2       0.3       0.4       0.9
Office Operation & Miscellareous Costs    493.4       915.6      1,213.8     2,622.8         0.2       0.4       0.6       1.2
Subb4otal                               2,200.0      3,784A      4,769.7    10,754.1         1.0       1.8       2.3      5.1
Total Project Cosb                        20,662.7    30,361.4    32,642.6    83,666.8          9.8     14.2      15.5      39.7
Figures may not add up due to rounding.



INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swwmary Acceuts by Components - Totab  ncuding Contlngendes
(Rp MDlion)
Pwv,ncal Component                                                 Ministy of Manpower Cowpont
Small                                    Lloca               Preparation
Cmpany    Indivdual                 Enteapi-s                       Youm         labor                ofTrainn
Group     Compny    Job-se       Tra8ng &                    PTfessoIa       Market         Staff     Fund in
Trii        Trag         Trainig    Advisory       Projet    Enreprnur  inforation   Trui&gA             South    Evaluation     Project
Servies     Services     Svics       Sevies Admins           Developet         SYstem  Development    Sulawesi      Studies Admiron            TotW
A Equipment                                    1,581.8         0.0         0.0          0.0        629.5          363.4       1,1721         0.0         20.5          00          0.0      3.7673
B. Fritre                                        278.6         0.0          0.0         0.0         53.2            3.5          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          00         335.3
C. Technical Assistance
Iternationl Consant                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0       3,433.4         1,289.7      644.9          0.0       165.0          0.0          0.0      5,533.0
Nainald Constnt                              0.0         0.0          0.0      3,096.9         0.0           811.3       203.7          0.0        97.4          0.0        224.1      4.433.4
Reseach and SAvy                             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           290.0       417.8          0.0       169.6        9646           0.0      1,842.0
Sub-totlW                                    0.0         0.0          0.0      3,096.9      3,433.4        2,391.0      i.2664          0.0       432.0        964.6        224.1     11,808.4
D. Felowdips                                       0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0            0.0          0.0      3,640.2         0.0         0.0          0.0      3,640.2
E. Traigand Wokhops
OverseasTrainng                              0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         67.3             0.0       451.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          00       1,318.3
In utryTramirng                              0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0             0.0          00       1,860.5        0.0          0.0          0.0      1.8605      _
In-Comunnyorkshops                           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         91.7             0.0      1368.0        118.4        32.2          0.0          0.0      1,6104      (
Sub-tot                                      0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        959.0             0.0      1,819.0      1,978.9       32.2          0.0          0.0      4,789.2
F. Enaarme TrngftProgms
Pre Training&nrices                          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          1,89S.6       0Q0           0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0      1898.6
PMPGua=cteedFund                             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       1,116.3           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0       1.116.3
Subtol                                       0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         3.0149          00           0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0      3,014.9
G. Prvinci Traning Fund
P7FTTraigSrSvices                        19,657.9    11,645.6      1,977.1     1,71.4          0.0             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      34,992.0
PTF Tecmical Servic                       7167.0       220.0          0.0         0.0       3.178A             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0     10.565.4
26,824.9    11,865.6      1,977.1     1.7114       3,178.4            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    45,5574
IL Project Magmet
Honoraia                                  1,032.1       86.1          0.0         0.0        863.4          1,213.0       41.0          0.0        66.0          0.0          0.0     3,301.7
TrmelExpenses                              819.1         0.0          0.0      5S0.1          127.6          419.3       114.0        521.5        29.9          0.0        264.5     2,846.0
Cosaule Materials                          563.1         0.0          0.0         0.0        385.7           802.3       224,1          0.0         8.4          0.0         0.0       1,983.6
Office Operatin and MIscellanecous Coats  1,4.          36.9          0.0         0.0 -       162.4          879.9         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0      Un
SubtoWsl                                  3,957.9       123.0         0.0       550.1       1,539.1        3,314.5       379.1        521.5       104.3          0.0        264.5     10.754.1
TOW ProjecteCo                                32,6Ca.2    11,986         9.1        S35A         9.792.6         9017A       4,636        6140.6        M8O.        964.6        4886      S3/66
Figus nmy not add up due to roundig.
W X



-74-                         Annex 14
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESIiMATED SCHEDULE OF DIsBuRSEMENTS
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year      Amount per  Cumulative               Disbursement Profile /a
semester    Amount  %                      %
1994/95
1                     2.0          2.0    7                     0
2                     4.5          6.5   23                     1
1995/96
1                     4.5         11.0   40                     3
2                     5.0         16.0   58                     6
1996/97
1                     4.5         20.5   74                    14
2                     4.5         25.0   90                    22
1997/98
1                     2.7         27.7  100                    34
/a Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (July 27, 1993).



-75-                          Annex 15
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DocumENs AND DATA AVAILAsLE IN TH  PROJECT FILE
A.    Selected Report and Studies Related to the Sector and Project
A.1 "Report on Training Fund Scheme - Structure, Systems, Procedures, Sample Contracts,"
John Moore, January, 1993.
A.2 'Private Training Center Study," Richard W. Moore, January 8, 1993.
A.3 "Survey of Manufacturing Enterprises in East Java, West Java and North Sumatra,"
Shafiq Dhanani, January, 1993.
A.4 "Enterprise-based Training," Leslie Kemp and Mel Crofton, November, 1992.
A.5 World Bank Policy Paper, "Vocational and Technical Education and Training," May
1991.
A.6 World Bank Report No. 9350-IN, "Indonesia:Employment and Training - Foundation
for Industrialization in the 1990s," June 13, 1991.
A.7 "Albania: Training, Enterprise and Employment Fund (TEEF) Preparation Report,"
Arvil Van Adams, Dilek Barlas, David Fretwell, and Teresa Ho.
A.8 "Poland: Employment Promotion and Services Project, Project Operational Manual,"
Country Department IV, EMENA Region, May 3, 1991.
A.9 Provincial Government of East Java Decree, "Manpower Training Obligation for
Companies and Mampower Training Obligation Contribution for Companies in Level 1
Region," No.4, 1991.
A. 10 "The Career Aspiration of Terdary Educated YounD People and the Impact on
Entrepreneurship Development Programmes," ILO, 1993.
A. 11 "Findings from Survey of Entrepreneurs Assisted During the First Year of Pilot
Testing," ILO, 1993.
A. 12 "The Self-employment Programe for Training Institutions (INS/90/003), Descriptions
of Programmes, Costs, Outputs and Recommendations for the Future," ILO, 1993.
A. 13 "The Local Enterprise Development Unit Project (INS/90/004), Descriptions of
Programmes, Costs, Outputs and Recommendations for the Future, ILO, 1993.
B.     Draft Working Papers
B.1 "Provincial Training Fund Boards and Project Implementation Units, and Pre-project
Activities," November, 1993.
C.     Background Papers Related to Project Preparation
C. 1 Ministry of Manpower, "Skills Development Project Proposal (Final Draft), 1993.
C.2 Detailed Project Cost Tables, Naoshi Kira



INDONES&A
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organaftional Structure of Provincal Government
Governor                                                  C         AG innOs
Prownvcl Padiaament . .............. .s Govenorfor EconomicD.ev.
ie Governorfor Weyare
_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
IProvntaal Secretary|
Assistant Secrety  Assistant Seretry   Assist Sear         Aitaat Seretoq         Fn               Mist*d
for PUblic Admbi    for Den AJvmi.     for SodialAffairs  foAwnbrto              Group Offices   P'owndia Officea
(A SDA I)         (ASDA 1I)           (A SDA III)&Bkt(IA)                                      (KANWIL)
Administration      Development         Developnmet   unit                       Manpower        MOM Off,ice
Rumralrwp            m            a rw| Officefor                                              Provincial
Administruton       Deelopmet          Managemet                                                 MO! Office
Other Offi ces     Other Offli csOther OfficsOmrOfles                                            Othes rv
L1ZD1H  1+3   Lq                                       {3   st,,- J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ofie
I0



INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Ministry of Manpower
|     M efJpOf MMPg
Iw               I
Dhaor Gnral of                  Diedr Generat of Train                                      Dirdo Genra Of                         Chains    of
De,dopmweof Maynw                    A Na dePreth.dW                                            D     elepnaWf                     Beerd efMmpo
I Di"    eqI    DOf                                    I                                 I  of                 I* of                Cr< of
SPlcema,d o Joeel&.pn "                                                              _      ndw#ieweflo J&alRdatild  Jb                   Dr opmUhg A
Dimtore eireiref                                                                               D ira off                         Catr of
CreationF                                                                                  Wr1 Cedto                        Iknd ________  D___ ___
Directorate of                     D Deoraef                                            . ..|                                    Ceter of
_  Aac*femWfD              --  D-vD p-Wt*of 1,it- wt O                                            SorigCnWdiatw                Researe,&fhry D     |mm
W orert                           .1 raiT n ers                                      I__    __  _I_    _                 _  .____. _ __I_
Direoeqf                           Dfioeof                                                 Diret of
Serwcff of Woerks               App-Ui-WhpDr#eopm& i                                       Sarfdy A Occaational
Iverseas  I_____________ _I           H edalt
DetvpmWe of Mancpwer                                    Dietorae of
Dbistd QOfice



Chart 3
-78-
INDONESIA
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizationdal Structure of
Provincial Training Fund Board and Project Implementation Unit
Provincial Governor                 1
Provincial Training Fund Board
Chairperson (private sector)
3 Members (public sector)
3 Members (pnvate sector)
ProjectImplementation Unit
PIU Director (private sector)
Treasurer (public sector)
Training Officers (private sector)
Administrative Staff (private sector)
Training Promotion Sub-Unit           TrainingAdvisory Sub-Unit             SmallEnterpriseSub-Unit
Training Promotion Specialist(s)           Training Advisors                 Small Entezprise Advisor(s) |
AdminiAdministtive Staff                                                      isativeSta
Promnams under tie Provincial Trainine Fund
* Establishment of CGTUs & Company Group Training Services
* Individual Company Training Services, Training Manager Capacity Development, &
Support for KADIN/APINDO
* Targeted Training of Job-seecers
* Small Erteaprise Training and Advisory Services



Chat 4
-79-
_~~~. II I
iiL  H



MAP SECTION



I
SRO 25570
8.100 AD                                                          "'                                                                                                            INDONESIA
Southa C3hCemain v                     5                            . PHIUPPINES                          SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRUNECet
< <  MALAVSL8k                                                                                                              )                                        Nouo>   rFDMt4tN
s    > 12  /%C?>s    \   (,>   MNUAY                                                                                                                             M ,}   A   /S
S   \\C-tINGAPORE                                                                                                              10WP CE S/OUNDA
N; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51N    ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                      -INTW44TIONM BOUNOANES
AT                                         14                                                         9
~~sl1onak  14KALIP  N?A  tD  To4e~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ( ~NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
~~~~~~~10                                       Wh151;27NDnu~\I 
I DYLUAWA.ATA                                                                                                                                             k.
2  JJAWA9T                          '                                                                       ULAWE                               c-          C
2   JAWA TE 1GA
5 JAWATLMUR
6 LAMFtUNG
7 RRNGKUW                                                                                                                                                                                        JAYA
8SUMJRAW$ELA.AN6
,Ii 4IJMMAThRA 8AAT                             1-d
12 SUMATER UTARA                              JAKARrA
13 al. ACE
14 6KAUMANTAN SLATA                                   2     ewcr
15 KAUMAN'TAN TENA2
16 S                                                       J AW A                                                   .  * soG 
20  JURAWESI SEWATAI      ote  namlo4
21 StLWEITENGGARA         o   hsmod
23 NUSA TENGGARA8A        Th  (lndBakGru               INDIAN OCEAN                                                    2
24 NUSATBNGGARATIMUR       n  ugeto  h  sa
25 MAVLUKU                anytu  of ay tenito,A
26 html JAYA              2rayedremn7ho ~
27 ilOR TIMUR            or  sccepance  f                                                                                                      suc
lowndaries                                                                                                                                                  MJTAII 



