Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3721 IND
                                Loan Agreement
                         (Skills Development Project)
                                    between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated April 26, 1994
§\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a\1a
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3721 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a) "APINDO" means Asosiasi Pengusaha Indonesia, the
Indonesian Employers' Association;
      (b) "KADIN" means Kamar Dagang dan Industi Indonesia, the
Indonesian Chambers of Commerce and Industry; and
      (c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty seven million seven hundred thousand dollars
($27,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in
Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Page  3
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
Page  4
in East Java, West Java and North Sumatra through the East Java
Provincial Training Fund, the West Java Provincial Training Fund and
the North Sumatra Provincial Training Fund, respectively, and shall
carry out Part B of the Project through its Ministry of Manpower,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and training practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
Page  5
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta, 10710, Indonesia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                         By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in Dollar      Expenditures
      Category                 Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)   Equipment                 1,400,000         100% of foreign
      (excluding                                  expenditures,
      vehicles)                                   100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 65%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(2)   Overseas fellowships      1,600,000         100%
      under Part B.3 of
      the Project
(3)   Training under            1,500,000         70%
      Parts A.5, B.2
      and B.3 of the
      Project
(4)   Entrepreneur                500,000         50%
      training services
      under Part B.1
      of the Project
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in Dollar      Expenditures
      Category                 Equivalent)         to be Financed
(5)   Provincial Training
      Fund:
      (a) training               11,100,000           70%
      services under
      Part A.1 through
      A.4 of the Project
      (b) technical               4,800,000           100%
      services under
      Part A.1 through
      A.4 of the Project
(6)   Consultants'                5,300,000           100%
      services
(7)   Unallocated                 1,500,000
Page  7
      TOTAL                      27,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
      (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(1) until the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the Borrower has acquired two vans for each of the Provincial
Project Implementation Units in the Provinces of East Java, West
Java and North Sumatra.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and
contracts for services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are (i) to develop and implement
innovative industrial skills training schemes in private enterprises
in the provinces of East Java, West Java and North Sumatra for
possible replication in other provinces in the future, as part of an
overall training program to promote productivity and efficiency of
the economy; (ii) to support a special training program for
unemployed university graduates in the provinces of Bali, East Java,
West Java, South Sulawesi and North Sumatra, to promote the
establishment of new small businesses; and (iii) to strengthen
policy making, research, planning and management capabilities of the
Borrower's Ministry of Manpower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Provincial Component (East Java, West Java and
        North Sumatra Provinces)
1.    Company Group Training Services
      Provision of technical assistance, training and related
equipment and instructional materials, to private enterprises for
the establishment of company group training units for clusters of
private enterprises, to assist in identifying training needs of such
enterprises, prepare training plans, implement staff training with
emphasis on training of managers, supervisors, technicians and
maintenance staff, and evaluate training programs, especially for
their effort in increasing productivity.
2.    Individual Company Training Services
Page  8
      Provision of technical assistance, training and related
instructional materials, to private enterprises for the employment
of new training managers to assist enterprises in the carrying out
of efficient, effective and high quality staff training, with
emphasis on training of managers, supervisors, technicians and
maintenance staff; and provision of technical assistance to KADIN
and APINDO in the carrying out of promotional activities of
industrial training.
3.    Targeted Training of Job-Seekers
      Provision of employment related training courses for
unemployed persons having obtained an agreement by an enterprise of
employment after graduation from training.
4.    Small Enterprise Training and Advisory Services
      Provision of technical assistance, management training, and
related instructional materials to selected small-scale
manufacturing enterprises, and provision of industrial training
services to groups of small-scale manufacturing enterprises with
similar training needs, to promote a continuous and systematic
training as a means of human resource development and sustainable
growth of the enterprise.
5.    Training of Public and Private Officials
      Provision of domestic and short-term overseas industrial
training to staff of employers' organizations, staff of associations
of private training institutes, provincial public officials involved
in industrial skills development, and provincial staff of the
Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Scale Enterprises, Ministry of
Industry and Ministry of Manpower.
PART B: Ministry of Manpower Component
1.    Young Professionals Entrepreneurship Development Program
      (a)   Provision of short-term and medium-term training in
small business ownership and management to unemployed university
graduates in the provinces of Bali, East Java, West Java, South
Sulawesi and North Sumatra; and provision of technical assistance
during the year of start-up of the new business.
      (b)   Development of an information system for self-employment
to serve the needs of entrepreneurs and support organizations
interested in entrepreneur development.
      (c)   Establishment of private sector management committees
and coordination units in the provinces of Bali, East Java, West
Java, South Sulawesi and North Sumatra to assist in the
implementation of the development program, and provision of related
technical assistance, equipment and materials.
2.    Local Labor Market Information System
      (a)   Provision of technical assistance and training for the
development of an information system to analyze the labor market and
design, monitor and evaluate labor market policies and programs, and
disseminate relevant reports at national and provincial levels, and
the establishment of demonstration systems in the provinces of East
Java, West Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi, and provision of
related equipment.
      (b)   Carrying out of a program for the development of the
capacity of thirteen district manpower offices in the provinces of
East Java, West Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi to improve
registration and placement services to employers and job-seekers,
and provision of related equipment.
Page  9
3.    Staff Development
      Provision of local training and overseas fellowships in policy
development, management and research for staff of the Borrower's
Ministry of Manpower, and provision of related technical assistance.
4.    Preparation of a Provincial Training Fund Scheme
      for South Sulawesi
      Carrying out of studies and surveys for the preparation of a
provincial training fund scheme, and provision of related training
to provincial staff.
5.    Studies
      Carrying out of evaluation studies of the training provided
under Parts A and B.1 of the Project.
6.    Technical Audit
      Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
technical audits of the training services provided under Parts A and
B.1 of the Project.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1999                          525,000
June 15, 2000                              545,000
December 15, 2000                          565,000
June 15, 2001                              585,000
December 15, 2001                          605,000
June 15, 2002                              625,000
December 15, 2002                          650,000
June 15, 2003                              675,000
December 15, 2003                          700,000
June 15, 2004                              725,000
December 15, 2004                          750,000
June 15, 2005                              775,000
December 15, 2005                          805,000
June 15, 2006                              835,000
December 15, 2006                          865,000
June 15, 2007                              895,000
December 15, 2007                          930,000
June 15, 2008                              965,000
December 15, 2008                        1,000,000
June 15, 2009                            1,035,000
December 15, 2009                        1,070,000
June 15, 2010                            1,110,000
December 15, 2010                        1,150,000
June 15, 2011                            1,195,000
December 15, 2011                        1,235,000
June 15, 2012                            1,280,000
December 15, 2012                        1,330,000
June 15, 2013                            1,375,000
December 15, 2013                        1,425,000
June 15, 2014                            1,475,000
_____________________________
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Page  10
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A: Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$430,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part B: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Page  11
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above. It shall also not apply to first
contract by each province under Part A of the Project, and to all
contracts under Parts B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.6 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall cause each Provincial Training Fund to
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with operating
procedures and eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i)
not later than December 31, 1996, furnish to the Bank for its
comments a proposal for the establishment of a scheme for the
financing, through levies on employers and use of such levies as
grants from the provincial training funds, of training of staff of
manufacturing enterprises in the provinces of West Java and North
Sumatra, and for the amendment of the scheme in East Java; and (ii)
not later than June 30, 1997, cause the provinces of East Java, West
Java and North Sumatra to implement an employer levy-grant scheme
taking into account the Bank's comments on the criteria for such
scheme.
Page  12
3.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than August 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, a detailed action plan for the implementation of the young
professionals entrepreneurship development program.
4.    In carrying out Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than September 30, 1994, establish a guaranteed
loan repayment scheme for graduates having completed the short-term
or the medium-term training, in accordance with criteria acceptable
to the Bank, including loans for capital for the development of
small businesses of up to Rupiah 2 million for graduates of the
short-term training and Rupiah 5 million for graduates of the
medium-term training.
5.    In carrying out Part B.1 (c) of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause the provincial private sector management committees and
provincial coordination units in the provinces of Bali, East Java,
West Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi to be established not
later than August 31, 1994.
6.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
identify posts to which selected candidates for long-term training
will be assigned upon their return from such training.
7.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for comments the criteria for selection of the
candidates for fellowships.
8.    In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than June 30, 1995, furnish to the Bank for comments, the
terms of reference for the two evaluation studies, and not later
than December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996, carry out such studies
and furnish to the Bank for review, the recommendations of such
studies.
9.    In carrying out Part B.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   cause technical audits, acceptable to the Bank, to be
carried out every six months during the implementation of the
Project, commencing not later than February 1, 1995; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank, for
information, a copy of such audits.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  13
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
Page  14
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
