Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11954-MOG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
OCTOBER 1, 1993
Country Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tug)
Before November 1991: $1.00 =Tug 7 (barter rate)
As of June 30, 1992: $1.00 =Tug 40 (for official transaction)
$1.00 =Tug 250 (for free market transaction)
As of April 30, 1993: $1.00 =Tug 150 (for official transaction)
$1.00 =Tug 420 (for free market transaction)
As of May 31, 1993: $1.00 =Tug 400 (unified free market exchange rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
CES         (Mongolia) Central Electricity System
C.i.f.      Cost, insurance and freight
cIS         Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DP          Direct Purchases
EAP         Environmental Action Plan
ERC         Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FOB         Free on Board
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA         Intemational Development Agency
IMF         Intemational Monetary Fund
JICA        Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW         German Development Agency
LIB         Limited Intemational Bidding
MIS         Management Information Systems
MR          Mongolian Railways
MTI         Ministry of Trade and Industry
OECF        Overseas Economic Corporation Fund
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PIC         Petroleum Import Concern
TAC         Technical Assistance Credit
TR          Transferable rubles
UNDP/OPS  United Nations Development Program/Office of Project Services
USAID       United States Agency for Intemational Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Mongolia
Amount:              SDR 14.2 million ($20 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives:   The Project would finance imports and technical assistance
urgently needed by Mongolia to maintain and develop key sectors
of its economy. This would help the economic stabilization and
adjustment program currently underway and would contribute to
the resumption of growth.
Project Description:  The Project would finance the critical import of equipment, spare
parts, and other essential inputs needed for the coal and copper
mines, including technical and operational assistance to the coal
and copper sectors. The Project would also finance essential
imports for Mongolian Railways (MR), and would provide
resources for the import of lubricants and the replacement of old,
inefficient gasoline pumps for the Mongolian Petroleum Import
Concern (PIC).
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The Project would help maintain and increase output in each of
the sectors identified during the next 12 to 18 months. Assistance
to the coal mines would be critical for improving the energy
supply; the assistance to the copper sector would provide long
term  production  improvements.   While  a more detailed
transportation sector project is being prepared, urgent imports and
maintenance needs of the MR are being addressed in this Project.
The high speed lubricants to be financed under this Project would
help save energy and improve productivity of the machinery.
Finally, changing the old gasoline dispensing pumps would
minimize leakages, protecting the environment and contributing to
energy conservation. There are essentially three types of project
risks. First, performance in the implementation of the stabi-
lization and reform program agreed with the IMF and the IDA,
and reflected in the Policy Framework Paper (which this project
intends to support), could be less than satisfactory given the
complexity and comprehensiveness of the program. This risk
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
however seems low given the authorities' performance and
commitment to reforms to date.  Second, payment of local
currency counterpart funds by the end-users may be delayed or
insufficient. (Payment of the Tugrik equivalent by end-users is
important to create incentives for the efficient use of the imported
goods and or technical assistance rendered.)  This risk is
minimized by the authorities' commitment to: (a) implement
appropriate price/tariff reforms that would improve cash flow of
end-users; and (b) improve management of public expenditures,
using already allocated budgetary funds for financing counterpart
funds. Third, there are some risks connected with the sectoral
components (delays in coal price adjustments, lack of
implementation of the conclusions of the TA components). These
risks appear minimized by the government commitments to proper
price adjustments and by the clear desire shown in taking
advantage of the TA components.
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign      Total
----------- ($ million) -----------
Goods
Copper                           1.2        4.1       5.3
Coal                             1.2         4.0      5.2
Railways                         1.3         5.0      6.3
Lubricants                      0.6          2.0      2.6
Gasoline Pumps                  0.5          1.0      1.5
Total Goods                  4 8        16.1      20.9
Technical Assistance
Copper                             -        0.9       0.9
Coal                               -         1.0      1.0
Total Technical
Assistance                   -         1.9       19
Contingencies                   0           2.0       2.6
Total                          4        20 0     25.4



- 111 -
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
----------- ($ million) -----------
IDA                            -      20.0      20.0
End-users                    5.4         -       5.4
Total                     5  4     20.0      25.4
Estimated Disbursement:
FY94              FY95
Annual                        15.0               5.0
Cumulative                    15.0              20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not Applicable
Map: IBRD 22982






- iv -
CONTENTS
1  Background  ........................................                                          1
A. The Economy .....................................  1
B. Recent Developments .................................   1
C.  The Stabilization and Transformation Program   ................                          3
2   The Project  .......................................                                         7
A. Project Objectives ...................................  7
B.  Lessons from  Previous Bank/IDA  Operations  .......  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
C.  Project Description and Justification .........  .            ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .    .  7
D.  Rationale for IDA  Involvement ...........  ..  .               ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..    .  8
E.  Detailed Project Features  ..............  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..                    .  9
3   Project Cost, Financing and Implementation  .......  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    19
A.  Project Cost and Financing  .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...                    .    19
B.  Project Implementation .................  ...  ...  ....  ...                          .   20
C.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
D.  Disbursements, Accounts and Audits  ........  ..  .               .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    .   24
4   Project Benefits and Risks ...............  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...                        .    25
A.  Project Benefits  ..............................  ....                                 .   25
B.  Project Risks .....................................   25
5   Agreements Reached and Recommendation  .......                      ........  .    .  .  .    .   27
This report is based on an appraisal mission in June/July 1993, comprising Carlos Elbirt
(Task Manager), Hongjoo Hahm, Christopher Wardell and J. Chanmugam (Consultant).
The peer reviewer was Paul Cadario. The Division Chief is Zafer Ecevit and the Country
Director is Shahid Javed Burki.



ANNEXES
Annex A.  Procurement Planning Timetable  ....... .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   28
Annex B.  Government of Mongolia: Statement of Economic Strategy
for the Medium Term  ........ .  .  .. .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .    .   30
Annex C.  Project Import Components ........ .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   42
Annex D.  Stock, Import and Consumption of Lubricants  ..... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   44
Annex E.  Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and Ministry of Geology and
Natural Resources-Terms of References  ...... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   47
TABLES iN TEXT
2.1        Consumption of Gasoline, Diesel and Lubricants .16
3.1        Estimated Project Cost ...............         . . . . . ... . .. . . .   19
3.2        Project Cost by Category of Expenditure .20
3.3  Financing Plan .20
3.4   Procurement Arrangements .23



1. BACKGROUND
A. THE ECONOMY
1.1         With a land area of about 1.6 million km2 and a population of only
2.2 million, Mongolia has one of the lowest population densities in the world. Moreover,
the geography and infrastructure of the country make access to foreign markets difficult
and costly. Since its independence in 1921 until the late 1980s, Mongolia remained
isolated from the broader international scene. External trade was heavily integrated with
that of the former USSR, with copper exports accounting for over half of the total.
Mongolia followed the Soviet model of a centrally planned command economy, with
emphasis on the development of industry and energy. With Soviet assistance equivalent
to 30 percent of the GDP, high rates of growth in investment and output were achieved for
a while but serious economic problems emerged by the second half of the 1980s.
Possibilities for further economic growth under a command economy appeared exhausted
by the turn of the decade. GDP has declined since 1990 with the total decline for the
1990-92 period reaching almost 20 percent. The most important reasons for this decline
are the sharp contraction of trade with the former Soviet Union and other members of
former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the virtual cessation of new
financial assistance from the former Soviet Union, declines in export prices, and the
prevailing economic distortions.
1.2         Following political reforms in early 1990, an elected coalition Government
embarked on a program of economic transformation to a market economy. Mongolia
expanded relations with market economies and became a member of various international
organizations. A whole host of broad-ranging reforms were initiated. For example, many
prices were liberalized or sharply increased, a program of privatization initiated, and legal
and institutional reforms introduced. Most small and medium-sized public enterprises and
shops were transferred to private owners under a privatization program using vouchers,
and privatization of large public enterprises under this system was initiated. By mid-1993,
95 percent of small enterprises, over 400 large enterprises, and almost all the livestock
herds are in private hands.
B. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.3         Mongolia's economy has suffered from external shocks (notably the breakup
of the CMEA trading system and of the former USSR in 1991), from difficulties in
transforming domestic institutions, and from some domestic policy slippage. Following
a decline of 9.9 percent in 1991, real GDP fell by a further 7.6 percent in 1992.
Notwithstanding a pickup in activity in the emerging private sector, industrial and
agricultural production has been constrained by shortages of intermediate goods and spare



- 2 -
parts and, in the case of agriculture, also by adverse weather. Domestic investment has
fallen sharply since 1990, partly reflecting a curtailment of projects financed by the former
USSR. Savings have also declined because of a fall in real income, accentuated by a
deterioration in the terms of trade that reflected a weakening of world prices for copper
and cashmere, the country's main exports.
1.4         Inflation  accelerated  to  over 300 percent by  end-1992, reflecting
liberalization of most official prices and relaxed monetary and credit policies during the
first half of the year. Monetary policies have tightened since the fourth quarter of 1992.
Domestic credit expanded by 52 percent and broad money by 34 percent, during that year.
Efforts to shift from direct to indirect methods of monetary control and to complete the
transition to a two-tiered banking system are underway. Payments clearing mechanisms
were introduced in mid-1992. The Bank of Mongolia's (the Central Bank) lending rates
were raised to real positive levels; reserve requirements were doubled to an average of
17 percent; minimum deposit rates were established; and credit ceilings were set on
commercial bank lending to nonbanks (as a temporary mechanism). The composition of
credit is shifting in favor of the private sector (from 7 percent of the total in 1990 to
48 percent at present).
1.5         The overall fiscal deficit reached about 10 percent of GDP in 1992, and was
mainly financed by external resources. Current expenditures were sharply reduced in real
terms during 1992, primarily through the elimination of most direct budgetary subsidies
to state enterprises and through restraint in salary increases. As a result, Government
expenditures declined from 64 percent of GDP in 1990 to 33 percent in 1992. Government
current savings had been negative until 1991. In 1992, savings of 1.3 percent of GDP
were attained. Although budgetary capital expenditures were constrained, substantial
outlays were incurred on a number of large off-budget projects initiated in prior years and
financed partly through external commercial borrowing.
1.6         After a sharp decline of almost 50 percent during 1990/91, exports increased
by 1 1 percent in 1992. Imports fell by 17 percent in 1992 as the changes in relative prices
made the country more import-efficient and, also, because the virtual cessation of new
assistance from the former USSR was only partly offset by assistance from nontraditional
sources. The deficit on the external current account declined from 29 percent of GDP in
1990 to 5.6 percent in 1992. Net official reserves fell from 3 weeks of imports at end-
1990 to 1.9 weeks of imports at end-1992. External payments arrears were reduced
somewhat to $52 million by end-1992. Mongolia's medium- and long-term external debt
in convertible currencies rose rapidly to about $340 million (87 percent of gross current
account receipts) at end-1992, reflecting new commercial borrowing as well as new aid
inflows. Medium- and long-term debt to the former CMEA (denominated in transferable
rubles) amounts to TR 10.6 billion. This debt is presently under discussion between
Mongolia and the interested parties (mainly Russia).                        I
1.7         There are some positive indications for the first semester of 1993. Nominal
exports increased by 21 percent over the same period of 1992. Volume of exports for
almost all goods ircreased showing a broad-based response to policy incentives. This



- 3 -
growth in exports is most likely the result of the important progress made in the
implementation of the stabilization and reform measures: exchange rate unification at the
free market level, introduction of basically free interest rates, abolition of import licensing
procedures (there are no export taxes and import duties are relatively low-15 percent-and
uniform), enactment of a new foreign investment law that allows transfers of benefits and
assets, etc. Another positive development is the trend towards trade diversification:
exports to G-7 countries increased from 3.7 percent of the total in 1990 to 8.7 percent in
the first semester of 1993; exports to China were negligible in 1990 (0.7 percent), but now
account for 25.7 percent of the total; exports to "other countries" increased from 14.8
percent of the total in 1990 to 28.6 percent in 1993. Exports to Russia, on the other hand,
accounted for 37 percent of the total in 1993, down from 81 percent in 1990. The direction
of imports shows the same trend.
C. THE STABILIZATION AND TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM
1.8         Mongolia continues to face severe economic difficulties that reflect deep-
rooted structural weaknesses, inexperience with new indirect methods of macroeconomic
management, and the magnitude of the external shocks since 1990. The Government has
been implementing measures to stabilize and transform the economy since 1990 (i.e.,
privatization, price liberalization, changes in laws and regulations, etc.). Those efforts
were supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF in 1991. Performance under the
standby was mixed. Progress was made in establishing the legal framework for a market
economy, banking and tax reforms, simplification of the exchange system, and price
liberalization. Slippages in policy implementation, however, occurred, particularly in
monetary policies. Performance criteria for end-June and end-September 1992 were not
observed.  Subsequently, an informal program  was adopted by the newly elected
Government in June 1992 and monitored by the IMF staff. During the last quarter of
1992, the Government tightened its monetary policies, adjusted interest rates, increased
fiscal revenues, controlled expenditures, introduced a new sales tax, raised administrated
prices, adjusted the exchange rate, etc. Reflecting these measures, the targets of the
informal program were met. Meanwhile, discussions took place between the Government
and the IMF and the Bank on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP). As a result of those
discussions, a PFP was agreed in June 1993. An IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) was also approved in June 1991. This report includes the Government's
Statement of Economic Strategy for the Medium Term (Annex B).
1.9         The main macroeconomic objectives of the Government articulated in the
PFP are to reduce inflation and to reverse the decline in output.  To support the
stabilization efforts and provide scope for adequate expansion of credit to the productive
sectors, the Government will aim at financing the budget deficit from external sources.
Expansion in domestic credit is being restrained to a level consistent with inflation and
external objectives. The Bank of Mongolia is taking steps to improve the monitoring of
monetary developments and the supervision of commercial banks. Interest rates are
basically free.  Key structural reforms include:  further privatization, supported by
measures to improve the legal and regulatory framework and measures to strengthen
corporate governance; the completion of the process of price liberalization; and the



- 4 -
removal of remaining restrictions on production and trade associated with the old system
of state orders and rationing. Finally, improvements in public resource allocation are in
progress: investment expenditures are now subject to more critical scrutiny; several large
(and possibly uneconomic) projects are to be reassessed; and a rolling three-year public
investment program is under preparation.
1.10        The authorities' principal objectives over the next 18 months are: to hold the
decline in real output below 2 percent in 1993, with a recovery of 2.5 percent in 1994; to
reduce inflation to about 50 percent in 1994; to eliminate external arrears and build up net
international reserves to $21.5 million (equivalent to 2.5 weeks of imports) by end-June
1994. Specific targets and policy actions have been agreed as part of the PFP and ESAF.
A prominent one is the adoption of a unified floating exchange rate system which took
place in May 1993.
1.11        As noted before, there is some evidence that reform measures are having
some positive impact on export growth. They should also contribute to a positive supply
response in agriculture/livestock. The service sector is already showing good potential for
gains in private employment in areas such as tourism, external and internal trade, business
and professional services, and distribution.  Some export-oriented industries (i.e.,
garments) and small, import-substituting consumer goods industries initiated with private
capital have began contributing to growth. However, output of many traditional industries
is expected to remain stagnant or decline as a more rational price structure and hard budget
constraints force nonviable entities to close and other entities to undergo rehabilitation and
restructuring. More foreign investment is expected with the enactment in July 1993 of a
revised foreign investment law that aims at reducing existing impediments to investment,
clarifying legal ambiguities, and streamlining approval procedures. Declines in the price
of copper have been hurting Mongolia's balance of payments position. Improvements in
the balance of payments will depend, to a large extent, on the development of an efficient
and more diversified export sector. Growth in noncopper exports, including those of
cashmere, textiles, leather products, and meat and meat products will greatly depend on
the continuation of an appropriate exchange rate policy, the removal of restrictions on
private trading, and increased investment in infrastructure.
1.12        The Government's program also addresses crucial sectoral policies. They
include:
(a)    Agriculture/livestock. Most state farms dedicated to cultivation have been
divided into smaller private plots through privatization and land leasing.
Modalities for ownership and transfer of land will be determined with the
passage of the land law.  As part of the first phase of privatization,
equipment and buildings have been made available to the private sector
through leasing or purchase. Procurement prices for agricultural products,
held at inadequate levels for some time, were liberalized in 1992.
(b)   Industry. The Government is establishing hard budget constraints on state
enterprises through the removal of remaining indirect subsidies, the phased



- 5 -
elimination of directed bank credit, and requirements that state enterprises
pay market-determined prices for imported inputs. The Government will
begin this year to identify and close down state enterprises that cannot be
restructured into viable units in the new market environment.
(c)   Energy.  For the coal-based power plants, priority has been given to
increasing coal supply and production in the mines through donor-financed
technical assistance and imports of new equipment needed for mining and
coal transport. Further upstream, a system of energy audits of major
enterprises to identify additional methods of conserving energy is being
developed, for introduction in 1994. As the more urgent sectoral problems
are overcome, the Government intends to produce a comprehensive energy
assessment, including the development of an integrated tariff structure.
(d)   Minerals. A new mining law, drafted under the IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit 2321-MOG), is being considered by Parliament.
The law aims at improving the environment for domestic and external
investment. The Government is formulating a plan to address long-term
technical, management, and environmental problems in the copper sector,
supported by technical and operational assistance provided under this
project.
(e)   Transport.   There is a rapid  increase in private transportation.
Privatization of some Government-owned transport corporations will be
considered. Agreement has been reached to secure access to the port of
Tianjin in China. However, difference in gauges and lack of empty wagons
in China for the predominantly north-south traffic are the chief reasons for
delays and congestions at the border with China. There are air links only
with China, Russia and, more limited, Kazakhstan. Negotiations have been
initiated to establish air links with other countries in the region. A Road
Master Plan is being developed with assistance from the ADB.
(f)    Enviromnental Issues.  The Government is preparing a country-wide
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) for submission to IDA in early 1994.
The EAP will focus on measures to: protect the environment from the
negative aspects of mining; combat soil erosion; and reduce air and water
pollution in urban areas.  To maintain and protect pasture lands, the
Government intends to restore exhausted areas through the growth of
protective vegetation, reintroducing more traditional forms of livestock
breeding, and restricting the expansion of crop cultivation on fragile pasture
land. A rangeland management study to be initiated this year will address
these environmental issues.  With external assistance, efforts are also
underway to foster improved use of forestry resources through the
promotion of reforestation and better forestry management. To reduce air
pollution, "scrubbers" will be installed in coal-fired electricity plants by
end- 1993.



- 6 -
(g)   Social and Human Resources.  The difficulties of the transition have
resulted in significant declines in living standards for the population and
have contributed to rising unemployment.  To mitigate the effects of
unemployment, the Government, in 1990, instituted unemployment grants
for civil servants retrenched as a result of rationalization of government
agencies; and, in 1991, introduced a system of severance pay financed by
employers. All employers are required to transfer the equivalent of five
months' salary of dismissed workers to the Social Security System, which
in turn uses these funds to pay modest unemployment benefits and to
provide job information, job training, and job creation services.  The
Government intends to restructure its current system of social benefits to
improve targeting and to provide support for self-employment, job creation,
and expanded job training. In order to identify vulnerable groups, the
Statistical Office has developed a measure of minimum living standards and
established an objective measure of poverty.  Some nongovernmental
organizations, for example the Mongolian Red Cross, contribute to relief
work.



-7-
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1         The Project's principal objective is to finance imports and technical
assistance urgently needed by Mongolia in order to maintain and develop key sectors of
its economy. Specifically, the Project will finance the import of equipment, materials,
spare parts and other inputs needed in coal and copper mining and the transport sector
during the next 12 to 18 months. The goods and services to be financed under the Project
have been selected from a list of critical imports prepared by the user agencies concerned.
The Project's scope and content have been designed to take into account assistance
planned, or already underway, by other bilateral and multilateral agencies, in particular the
Asian Development Bank (AsDB), German Development Agency (KfW), Overseas
Economic Corporation Fund (OECF) and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). The Project includes technical and operational assistance to the
coal and copper sectors that is critical to their long term viability.
B. LESSONS FROM PREvIOuS BANK/IDA OPERATIONS
2.2         The proposed project draws and builds on the experience gained through the
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) which also financed critical imports (equipment,
materials, spare parts, and vehicles) needed for the key agriculture, energy (electric power,
coal mining and petroleum products), and transport sectors. Experience under the ERC,
approved in December 1991 and now almost fully disbursed, confirmed the utility of the
short-term technical assistance provided to facilitate international competitive bidding, the
advantages of a well-prepared procurement plan and monitoring system, and the need to
ensure that local currency counterpart funds for project-financed goods and services are
paid by user agencies when the goods and/or services are received. Another important
lesson was that timely implementation of technical assistance is crucial to secure the
expected positive impact of some components (i.e., coal and copper).
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION
2.3         The proposed Project would finance:
(a)   equipment, materials and spare parts for the Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal
mines, which together account for two thirds of Mongolia's coal output;
technical assistance required to undertake (i) a coal pricing study; and
operational assistance needed to enhance (ii) coal sectoral planning and mine
management and operating practices;



- 8 -
(b)   materials and spare parts for the Erdenet copper mine; and technical
assistance for (i) metallurgical testing to improve Erdenet's copper grades;
(ii) modernization of Erdenet's cost and financial accounting systems; and
(iii) a review of the environmental aspects of Erdenet's operations;
(c)   materials, spare parts and maintenance and servicing of locomotives for the
Mongolia Railways;
(d)   gasoline dispensing pumps for the Mongolian Petroleum Import Concern to
reduce leakages and waste of petroleum products, mitigating environmental
hazards in the domestic distribution system; and
(e)   lubricants for agricultural and transport machinery to meet Mongolia's
import requirements in this area and to improve the productivity of the
machinery involved.
2.4         Financed items are regarded as very important for resuming economic
growth. User agencies will receive imported equipment, materials and spare parts against
payment in local currency (Tugriks) of their c.i.f. cost at the prevailing unified, free
market exchange rate. These payment arrangements will also apply to the technical
assistance. Tugrik funds to pay for the imports, technical assistance and local costs will
derive from three sources: from the beneficiary agency's own resources, from the use of
domestic credit, and/or from state budgetary allocations. End-users would be required to
pay for the import of goods at the time they are cleared by customs and for the services
when they are paid for by IDA. The unified interbank floating exchange rate would be
applicable. Assurances on these arrangements were obtainedfrom the Government during
negotiations.
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.5         With the approval of the IMF ESAF, and the related PFP in late June, the
rationale for IDA involvement in the proposed project is as follows. First, the ESAF
program assumes a continuing flow of quick-disbursing concessional resources required to
restore and improve the efficiency of Mongolia's economic and social infrastructure. Such
resources are also needed to expedite timely implementation of the authorities' structural
reform efforts, while preparation of the medium and longer-term sectoral strategies
(including priority development projects) provided for in the PFP is underway. Second,
IDA involvement through this project would help Mongolia finance its overall balance of
payment requirements for 1993-95 which include the goods and services under this
proposed project. The PFP identified the overall financing requirements for 1993-96,
amounting to $226 million for 1993, $203 million for 1994, $170 million for 1995 and
$155 million for 1996. Most of the financing sources for 1993 and 1994 have been
already identified. Third, IDA involvement, together with that of AsDB, is expected to
catalyze similar assistance to Mongolia from several bilateral agencies, as manifested
during the third Mongolia Assistance Group meeting, co-chaired by the Bank and the
Government of Japan, held in Tokyo in September of this year.



- 9 -
E. DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
2.6         The proposed project would finance the essential import requirements in the
coal, copper, and transport sectors (Annex C). In addition, the project would finance the
installation of new petroleum dispensing pumps as well as the import of high-speed
lubricants for use in agricultural and transport machinery.  A brief summary of the
concerned sectors and details of the items to be financed are given below.
Coal ($5.0 million IDA financing)
2.7         Coal accounts for almost all the primary energy production in Mongolia,
providing the fuel for power plants in Ulaanbaatar, Darhan, Dornod and Erdenet, and for
industrial and domestic use. The key Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal mines (capacity 4.0
and 1.5 million tons of coal per year) continue to provide approximately 70 percent of total
coal production.
2.8         With the IDA-financed Economic Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2320-MOG)
approved in December 1991, and with support from other donors (Japan, USA) over the
1991-93 period, fleets of mining equipment (dump trucks, bulldozers etc), spare parts and
consumables have been supplied to the Mongolia coal industry, primarily to Baga Nuur and
Sharyn Gol. An additional $2 million is currently being used from unallocated Credit
proceeds to procure additional critical needs (dump trucks and related spare parts). The
objective of the combined donor support is to increase production to about 7.0-7.5 million
tons of coal per year, thus securing a reliable supply of coal to power plants and other
consumers (production in 1992 was about 6.0 million tons). In the past, sizeable amounts
of donor assistance were provided for the coal sector. This assistance helped the country
to avoid an even sharper decline in production but did not solve some managerial and
technical issues. These technical and managerial issues are addressed by present USAID
assistance and would also be addressed in this Project (in the T.A. component, para. 2.2).
2.9         Overburden materials continue to increase in the coal mines. This reduces
the quantity of coal exposed for excavation and, therefore, the coal production.  In
addition, continued financial problems in Mongolia have prevented the Government from
mobilizing sufficient funds to import all required items. Furthermore, difficulties are
continuing to be faced in acquiring adequate spare parts (excavators and dump trucks) and
consumables (fuels, lubricants and explosives) from original suppliers in the former Soviet
Union. A Coal Workshop held in April 1993 in Mongolia reviewed key issues in the
industry based on studies financed by USAID and IDA. The workshop, in which Bank
staff actively participated, identified management (operations and maintenance) deficiencies
that contribute to the continuing poor performance of the coal mines.
2.10        The Government is making good progress in addressing coal pricing issues.
Following the latest increase in July 1993, prices are now in the range Tugrik 3,000-3,800
($7.5-9.5) per ton coal. This represents a cumulative increase of 300-400 percent in
relation to mid-1991 coal prices, after adjustment for local currency devaluation and
inflation (it should be noted, however, that coal transport is still substantially subsidized).



- 10 -
It is estimated that coal prices now represent over 50 percent of long-run marginal costs
and the Government appears committed to further price increases. Agreement was reached
with the Government during negotiations that, until the coal pricing study planned under
the proposed credit is completed in mid-1994, coal prices will continue to be increased,
at least on a quarterly basis, to keep pace with inflation, using the estimates of CPI
produced by the State Statistical Office.
2.11        Import Needs. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has developed a list of
critical equipment, spares and consumables to operate through 1993 and particularly the
severe 1993/94 winter months. This list, which amounts to about $11 million, remains
relatively large, but its financing is considered to be realistic. It provided the basis for the
identification of possible IDA financing under this Project. The identified financing would
be as follows: USAID, $3.5 million; Government funds, $3.0 million; and IDA-METS,
$5.0 million. This Project would finance, specifically: (a) graders, loaders and bulldozers
($2.6 million); (b) mine vehicles, explosive trucks, and tire trucks ($0.5 million);
(c) excavator, dump truck and bulldozer spare parts ($0.9 million); and (d) critical
technical assistance ($1.0 million).
2.12        Under the technical assistance component of the proposed credit, operations
assistance (35-40 man-months) would be provided to the mines' management at Baga Nuur
and at Sharyn Gol to upgrade mine management, operating and maintenance practices.
Coal mines' efficiencies (equipment and labor productivity) would be improved and mine
production costs reduced. This operations assistance, together with equipment, spares and
consumable procurement under the METS credit and the USAID program, is expected to
secure a sizeable production increase in 1994. A coal pricing study would be undertaken
(estimated 3-4 man-months) to develop options for a rational and economically efficient
coal pricing mechanism. This study should be completed by June 30, 1994. Afterwards,
its results and recommendations would be discussed with IDA; steps would be taken for
their implementation. Assurances regarding the implementation of the study were received
from the Government during negotiations. Terms of reference for the operations assistance
and coal pricing study were agreed with the government during appraisal-and ratified
during negotiations-and are included in Annex E.  A proposal for the operations
assistance will be solicited by the government on a sole-source basis. A shortlist of
consultants for the proposed coal pricing study has been submitted and agreed with the
government.
2.13        Benefits. The component would help restore the production capacity of the
key Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol mines and thus provide for a reliable source of coal supply
to the power, industry and domestic subsectors. With additional financing for extensive
spare parts and consumables from USAID and auxiliary mine equipment and important
mine vehicles from the proposed IDA credit, supported by critical operations assistance
under the technical assistance component of the credit, improvement of the performance
of the coal subsector would be obtained. The coal pricing study component of the credit
would provide the technical basis for formulating appropriate policy decisions on coal
pricing. This, in turn, would enable the coal sector to develop a financially stable and



- 11 -
healthy base from which to provide for equipment-and capital needs in general-in the
coming years, thereby reducing the need for donor assistance.
Copper ($5.0 million IDA financing)
2.14        The mining sector in Mongolia is dominated by the Erdenet copper mining
and processing operation, which generates about $200 million annually in foreign exchange
earnings. The mine and concentrator were developed in 1978 on a 51/49 percent joint
venture basis between the Mongolian Government and the former Soviet Union (now the
Russian Federation) government, and have been in full production operation for 10 years.
The open-pit mine produces 20 million tons per year of copper porphyry ore
(0.75-0.80 percent copper) which is processed (by traditional crushing, grinding and
flotation) into copper concentrates (30-35 percent copper) which are then exported.
Molybdenum concentrates are produced as a minor by-product and exported also. Ore
grades are forecast to deteriorate down to 0.5 percent copper (see below) and thus, ore
production is planned to be expanded to 25 million tons per year and further, at a later
date. Present proved ore reserves are sufficient for operations well into the 21st century
and probable reserves suggest a mine life of 50-60 years.
2.15        Historically, Erdenet has produced and exported consistently some 340-
350,000 tons copper concentrates per year, representing about 110,000 tons of contained
copper metal. In 1991, production of copper concentrates dropped markedly to 275,000
tons concentrates due to serious interruptions in the power supply from the Mongolian
Central Electricity System (CES) grid. In addition and following the cessation of technical
and economic assistance from the former Soviet Union, Erdenet has faced difficulties in
procuring needed equipment replacements, spare parts and consumables from the Russian
Federation and CIS, all of which are necessary to maintain operation of the mine and
copper concentration facilities. In 1992, copper concentrate production recovered some
10 percent to a little over 300,000 tons. There are concerns about the predictability of
regular power supply and the availability of equipment, spares and consumables.
2.16        Copper ore is mined at the Erdenet open-pit. The concentrator plant is of
Russian origin and although equipment component specifications are not comparable to
western equivalents, it appears to be close to 1970s international technology.  The
concentrates are transported directly by rail to international copper smelters, primarily in
Kazakhstan and Japan, and to China. Sales of the concentrates are on the basis of FOB
border international prices, denominated on a US dollar basis. However, much of the sale
of copper concentrates remains on a barter basis with the Russian Federation, with
respective commodity movements being balanced with reference to international-dollar
denominated prices. Payment problems seem to continue and Erdenet is still not totally
free from periodic cash flow difficulties.
2.17        Production costs at the Erdenet operation are difficult to analyze due to the
company's cost and financial accounting systems which are still based on the old Soviet
accounting system.  Production costs appear higher than those in North and South
American and Pacific operations due to the higher cost of grinding the very hard Erdenet



- 12 -
ore. However, this is somewhat offset by the higher grade of the concentrates produced
in Mongolia. Cash flow and profitability are not defined on any basis that can be easily
interpreted but annual profits appear to be positive. At present international prices, the
operation appears to be competitive with other international copper producers.
2.18        Under the Technical Assistance Project, IDA-financed consultants undertook
a detailed review of the minerals sector in Mongolia, focusing on the Erdenet operation.
Three key issues were defined. First, from a technical/operations viewpoint, it has been
identified that the grade of copper concentrates produced has declined from the original
(start-up) level of 35 percent to 29 percent in 1992 and is forecast to decline further to
21 percent over the next 5-10 years. This is a very serious issue, not only because of its
impact on the overall economy and on the revenues of the Erdenet Corporation, but
because international smelters would not be prepared to purchase for processing
concentrates containing such low concentrate grades. The problem of deteriorating grades
is due to increasing difficulty in depressing insolubles (impurities) in the ore feed. This
is not an uncommon problem in processing copper porphyry ores worldwide and would
normally be solved by metallurgical testing to identify depressants that could be introduced
at the flotation stage to elevate copper yields. Second, cost and financial accounting
systems are poorly developed. Not only does this interfere with production cost and
profitability analysis, but it has not permitted a meaningful management information system
(MIS) to be developed. As a result, Erdenet management is not in a position to identify
accurately its competitiveness in the international market place and to prepare a business
plan accordingly. Third, environmental protection falls short of international guidelines
in a number of areas. Water and air pollution are not closely monitored and controlled,
and of particular concern to the health of workers and livestock are the airborne particles
from tailings pond beaches which may contain harmful metal content. Reservations have
also been raised regarding the long-term stability of the 60 meter tailings pond dam,
particularly in connection with the proposal to progressively increase the dam height to 92
meters. Erdenet is recognized as an area with historical seismic activity and it remains
unclear whether the original dam construction took account of this factor. Any failure of
the dam would have very serious consequences to the downstream town site.
2.19        Import Needs. Erdenet requires annually some $95-100 million imports of
replacement equipment, spare parts and consumables to support its mining and copper
processing operation.  A list of critical import needs has been identified.  Erdenet
recognizes the need to diversify its equipment and spare parts procurement sources.
Recognizing the importance of the Erdenet operation to the overall economy and the
periodic cash flow constraints facing the company, items suitable for IDA-financing,
totalling $4.1 million, have been identified.  These include:  (a) dump trucks for
$1.8 million; (b) front-end loaders for $0.65 million; and (c) bulldozers for $1.7 million.
Procurement of this equipment would proceed under international competitive bidding and
would provide an opportunity for Erdenet to initiate the introduction of equipment with
highly efficient technology.
2.20        Under the technical assistance component of the proposed  credit,
arrangements would be made for international experts to assist to (a) undertake and



- 13 -
supervise a metallurgical testing program to identify options to preserve copper concentrate
grades and recovery and to assist Erdenet to implement the test program findings and
recommendations; (b) upgrade cost and financial accounting systems that can provide good
assessments concerning cash flow, profitability and liquidity of Erdenet.  Similarly,
assistance would be provided for upgrading the management information systems; and
(c) undertake an assessment of environmental degradation resulting from the mining and
copper processing operation and develop and assist to implement, specific measures to
ensure that the production operates within international environmental guidelines. Terms
of reference for these technical assistance components have been agreed with Erdenet
management and the Ministry of Geology and Natural Resources during appraisal and are
included in Annex E. A proposal for the expert services for the metallurgical test program
will be solicited by government on a sole source basis. Short lists of consultants for the
other areas of technical assistance have been submitted by government and agreed during
appraisal.
2.21        Recognizing the need to modernize and rehabilitate the Erdenet operation,
aid is being provided currently by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
which is financing an 18-month study program to review existing technical, operational,
financial and general business management arrangements at Erdenet.  The Erdenet
component of the proposed credit would complement the JICA initiative, focusing on
critical imports and on key areas of required technical assistance.
2.22        Benerits. The component would initiate the introduction of high-efficiency
mobile mining equipment to the Erdenet operation, diversifying supplier sources and
reducing dependency on equipment and spare parts that have become difficult to obtain and
to service. The familiarization of the company with International Competitive Bidding
procedures should be considered an important side-benefit. Reliability of the copper
mining operation should be increased and, concomitantly, production costs decreased. The
technical assistance component would help to ensure that: copper concentrate grade and
recovery is maximized; modern cost, financial, and management information systems are
introduced; and Erdenet develops action plans to ensure that the mine and processing
facilities operate within environmentally acceptable guidelines. Discussions regarding the
corporatization and the possible privatization of Erdenet have been initiated, and the credit
will permit the Association to maintain a dialogue with Erdenet and government on this
important corporate development program.
Rail Transport ($5.0 million IDA financing)
2.23        The Mongolian rail system reflects the evolution of the economy over the
past seventy years and its overwhelming dependence on trade with the former Soviet
Union. A railway line built after the Second World War south from the trans-Siberian
line, initially to Ulaanbaatar and later to the Chinese border, provides Mongolia's main
connection with the outside world. Mongolia serves as an important transit corridor for
traffic between Russia and China through its main north-south section. The Mongolian
track width is the same as the Russian (1,524 mm), as against the international standard
gauge width (1,435 mm) that is used also in China. The gauge difference and the lack of



- 14 -
wagons in China for the predominantly north-south traffic create delays and congestions
of freight and passenger traffic at the border with China. Mongolian Railways (MR) is a
joint venture between Russia and Mongolia. It services the Russia-China corridor and
provides direct rail access to Ulaanbataar, Darhan, and Erdenet. MR has a rolling stock
of 111 diesel locomotives (Russian), 227 coaches (East German), and 1,736 wagons
(Russian). All of Mongolian Railways' equipment, including servicing and repairs of
engines and rolling stock, require support from the Russian system. Originally, full
support from Russia was inexpensive and readily available. But, now, payments are
required in convertible currency. This makes servicing of locomotives and purchase of
spare parts difficult for MR. Around 50 percent of the locomotives are nonoperational due
to lack of spare parts and overhaul. A sizeable part of the coaches and wagons are also
nonoperational for lack of spares and timely repair. All these reduce the efficiency and
long-term viability of the railways.
2.24         During the last two years, there has been a significant drop in rail traffic,
both freight and passenger.  A large proportion of the freight is domestic (around
50 percent). The freight and passengers carried by MR are well below capacity and
revenue levels necessary to sustain regular, reliable service. They are contributors to the
weak financial position of MR.
2.25         Recent shifts in freight traffic patterns have resulted in a serious drop in
railway traffic and revenue for MR, making regular maintenance of critical rolling stock
and rails even more difficult. MR carries almost all the coal from the mines to the thermal
power plants and this accounts for almost half the freight ton/km in freight traffic. While
traffic patterns have shifted with decreased freight transport, coal freight demand is
increasing (current demand for 1,020 freight cars surpasses the 990 cars available for coal
transport). Coal transport demand is forecasted to increase substantially.
2.26         While the capacity of the railway system is adequate, maintenance of tracks
and rolling stock has become a serious problem. The government of Japan is providing
assistance to address some of the issues affecting MR. Allocation of funds from this
Project would be coordinated with the Japanese assistance, to avoid duplication and to
ensure complementarity.
2.27         IDA is preparing a transport sector rehabilitation project. The railways
component would provide assistance to address the medium-term issues faced by MR.
Since it will take some time for both the IDA and Japanese projects to materialize, certain
priority spare parts and servicing requirements of MR have been identified for IDA to
provide advance financing under the METS project.
2.28         Import Needs. MR has a fleet of 111 diesel locomotives of four different
Russian designs. The backbone of the fleet is the 64 4,000 hp locomotives, of which more
than half are nonoperational at this time for lack of spare parts and maintenance.
Shortages of foreign exchange have resulted in a backlog of replacements of fatigued and
worn out parts and a backlog of locomotives to be sent to Russia for a major overhaul.
Periodic overhauls are necessary, but they have not been observed. As a result, there has



- 15 -
been an increase in operational failures of locomotives, and deterioration in overall
performance. A similar problem affects the freight and passenger cars. In addition, some
rail tracks need prompt replacement due to wear and tear. Through Japanese grant
financing, MR was able to acquire, via UNDP/OPS procurement, 2,450 tons of R-50 rails
(Russian standard), but for reasons unclear, the associated track accessories (e.g., base
plates, fish plates, washers, insulating butts, nuts, bolts, and washers) were left out
inadvertently. These accessories are essential to lay the new tracks.
2.29        Maintenance of tracks and rolling stock is a major problem. The list of
items for possible financing under the METS Project thus consists of $4 million for critical
spare parts and other maintenance needs, and $1 million for railways accessories such as
spikes and fishplates. Specifically, the METS project would finance: (a) spare parts for
locomotives ($1.45 million); (b) spare parts for freight and passenger wagons
($0.88 million); (c) overhaul of locomotives ($1.55 million); (d) overhaul of wheel sets
($0.12 million); and (e) rail track accessories ($1.00 million).   Most of these
material/services are manufactured in the CIS and accessible through the same rail system.
Therefore, direct purchases for about $4.5 million would be procured.
2.30        Benefits. This component would help to reduce the backlog in servicing
locomotives and in availability of spare parts. This, in turn, would allow MR to prevent
further decline in capital utilization and to improve efficiency, positively affecting the
earnings of the company. The impact of improved railways services on the transport of
coal could also be very important for improving the energy situation of Mongolia. This
credit component would be in anticipation of the transportation project which would
address the medium term issues of MR.
Petroleum Products/Lubricants ($2.0 million IDA financing)
2.31        Traditionally, all petroleum products requirements of Mongolia were met by
imports from the former USSR. The dislocations in Mongolia's external trade with the
former Soviet Union since late 1990 have, in particular, affected the flow of petroleum
products severely. The annual consumption of gasoline and diesel oil declined from a high
of 685,000 tons in 1988 to about 391,000 tons in 1992. The fall in consumption has been
attributed to, on the demand side, decreases in military/govemment requirements,
slowdown in the economy, and shortages in foreign exchange to finance the petroleum
products imports. Increased energy efficiency resulting from shortages and more realistic
prices is also responsible for the decline in gasoline consumption. On the supply side, the
inability of CIS countries to deliver agreed quantities of petroleum products also
contributed to the reduced consumption. Lubricants of all kinds, totalling 25,600 tons in
1988, and 9,960 tons in 1992, were consumed for use in agriculture, aviation, industry,
mining and transport. Table 2.1 shows the steady decline in gasoline, diesel oil and
lubricants consumption since 1988.
2.32        Russia has already indicated that, owing to production constraints, they are
no longer able to supply Mongolia's minimum annual requirements for lubricants of
various types. In response, the Petroleum Import Concern (PIC) has been attempting to



- 16 -
Table 2.1: CONSUMPTION OF GASOLINE, DIESEL AND LUBRICANTS
(in metric tons)
1988       1989        1990        1991        1992
Gasoline                343,567    336,560    315,721       237,918     178,799
Diesel oils             341,323     335,695     322,638    282,022    212,127
Lubricants               25,600      26,500      23,000      15,100       9,960
Source: Petroleum Import Concern.
procure vital lubricants from other sources since early 1991. These attempts have been
constrained by a lack of foreign exchange on the part of PIC. Using $2 million of IDA
funds (from the previous Economic Rehabilitation Project, Credit 2320-MOG),
$4.4 million in Japanese grant assistance, and $2.8 million of PIC's own money, Mongolia
was able to import about 11,200 tons of lubricants in 1992. In 1990, 1991 and again in
1993, PIC has been using the government's reserve stock of lubricants to satisfy domestic
demand. Annex D shows the stock, import and consumption of lubricants, by types,
during 1990-92.
2.33        Import Needs. The demand for lubricants in 1993 (i.e., during the next six
months) and first half of 1994, is estimated to cost over $10 million. Of that amount,
almost $3 million will be required for high speed lubricants. Good quality, high speed
lubricants should be available at all times since they improve the efficiency of the
machinery. The UK has provided some funds for lubricants imports.
2.34        The high level of lubricants consumption, especially diesel lubricants (i.e.,
engine grease), is attributable to the use of obsolete and inefficient industrial equipment and
vehicles. There has been an increase in the number of new imported machinery especially
from Japan and western countries. This machinery requires "high speed" lubricants.
Therefore, the demand for "high speed" lubricants is increasing.
2.35        Benefits. The project will finance $2 million of high speed lubricants. The
use of imported (advanced standards) lubricants will increase the productivity of the
machinery concerned. This was the case with lubricants imported under the Economic
Rehabilitation Credit:  interviews and data suggest that turbines and engines using
imported, advanced lubricants have increased efficiency and productivity.   The
demonstration effect of the improved lubricants has been enormous, and partially as a
result, request for additional lubricants imports was made by the Mongolian authorities.
PIC passes through cost increases in gasoline and lubricants to the consumers. Assurances
were obtained from the government during negotiations that this policy would continue.



- 17 -
In this regard, a formula to adjust domestic prices of gasoline and lubricants to reflect
international prices and exchange rates was agreed during negotiations.
Petroleum Pumps ($1.0 million IDA financing)
2.36        Mongolia has traditionally relied on Russian petroleum products imported
under barter arrangements in exchange for copper and molybdenum concentrates.
Although the barter deal system  was officially eliminated in 1992, most petroleum
contracts continue on a barter basis. The Angarsk and Achinsk Russian refineries provide
most of the supply of petroleum products, which are delivered via rail and/or road tankers
to Mongolia's main import depots. In the northwest, road tankers supply Ulaangom and
Tsagaanuur. In the northeast, rail transport reaches Choibalsan. Other import depots such
as Ulaanbaatar, Darhan, and Erdenet are fed by railway from Angarsk via Sukhbaatar.
2.37        Each import depot controls a geographical area based on consumption and
population distribution in order to minimize import and transportation costs. A depot's
operating area typically overlaps aimak (local government) boundaries (there are 17
depots). Road tankers (50 m' unit capacity each) are used for distribution to the pumping
stations within each jurisdiction.
2.38        Excess capacity was particularly evident at Baruunharaa and Hentii import
depots where some stations are used infrequently. However, they were operated in that
fashion because of the policy that each aimak capital should have its own pumping station.
Excess capacity also exists in Dornogobi, Bayanhongor, and Gobi-Altay located in the
south where pumping stations were constructed for then existing military functions.
Seasonal fluctuations also result in excess capacity, particularly in the agricultural regions
during the nonsummer months. Some aimaks, serving remote hilly areas, maintain extra
pumping stations with minimal velocity for supply safety reasons in the winter months.
2.39        While some pumping stations are underused, other are heavily used, some
doubling as fuel stations for trains en route to Russia. In terms of industrial production,
Darhan depot's three pumping stations carry heavy volume, but a lack of capacity at
Darhan's import depot has forced authorities to use Darhan's three pumping stations as
secondary depots/holding facilities. Ulaanbaatar depot's stations are critical since it also
supplies the broad area surrounding the capital.
2.40        Each pumping station currently uses outdated pumps of 1950s Russian design
that are extremely worn down. The pump nozzles are connected to the pump hoses by
steel wires and consequently have significant leakages. Further, the gauges at the pumping
stations are obsolete, making precise measurement of petroleum use problematic.
Consequently, fraud by pump station attendants is said to be common. Annex D shows
the level of consumption at each pumping station, calculated on the basis of petroleum
products delivered to each station, and the level of waste at each station that includes
leakages from the outdated pumps as well as for alleged siphoning of petroleum products
by station attendants. The underground petroleum tanks at most stations, installed and/or
replaced in the 1970s, appear to satisfy environmental concerns with minimal leakages.



- 18 -
2.41        Import Needs. The Mongolian Petroleum Import Concern has developed
a list of high volume pumping stations that require urgent pump replacement. Out of 300
existing pumps, 113 pumps are at stations where consumption exceeded the 1992 average
of 2,136 m3. Some 63 additional pumps, of which 15 are part of the 113 mentioned
before, are not included in the list of replaceable pumps because their utilization is not
intensive: pumps which were mostly used in the past for military purposes, or only during
the agricultural season, etc. This information as well as data on the volume carried by
each pumping station helps the Government determine which pumping stations are critical
enough to justify new pumps. Consequently, the Petroleum Import Concern has identified
96 pumps that need replacement. At an approximate cost of $10,000 per pump, financing
of about $1 million would be required. The Petroleum Import Concern would bear the
cost of installing the new pumps.
2.42        Benefits. By replacing 96 pumps, this component would help reduce some
921 tons of waste (see Annex D). Further, by eliminating leakages, this component would
reduce the adverse environmental effects of petroleum evaporation into the air and on the
ground, while mitigating safety hazards to consumers and station attendants alike. In this
regard, the Ministry of Environment will be actively involved in supervising the installation
of the new pumps with periodic checks to ensure adherence to government environmental
standards and to conduct environmental waste impact assessments in conjunction with PIC.
The new pumps will also have precise measuring gauges that would substantially reduce
the possibility of siphoning petroleum products by petroleum station attendants. This will
have a positive impact on the finances of the company.



- 19 -
3. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.1         The project has an estimated total cost of $25.4 million equivalent, of which
$20.0 million would be in foreign exchange. Foreign costs are based on international
procurement prices, recent prices in other Asian countries and the historic cost for goods
bought in the former Soviet Union under barter arrangements (prices are estimated at June
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
($ million)
Local            Foreign               Total
Goods
Coal                               1.2              4.0                  5.2
Copper                             1.2              4.1                  5.3
Railways                           1.3              5.0                  6.3
Lubricants                        0.6               2.0                  2.6
Gasoline/diesel pumps             0.5               1.0                   1.5
Total Goods                    4.8              16.1                 20.9
Technical Assistance
Coal                                -               1.0                   1.0
Copper                                              0.9                  0.9
Total T.A.                                       1.9                  1.9
Contingencies                     0.6               2.0                  2.6
Total                          5.4              20.0                 25.4
1993 levels). Local costs include: expenditures on domestic transportation and storage
of the imported goods, installation costs (in the case of the gasoline pumps), and import
duties of 15 percent. The cost of consultants' advisory services are based on typical
current costs for such assignments. Contracts for all imported items are expected to be
signed during the next six months. About $2 million of the credit is unallocated to allow



- 20 -
for contingencies on foreign costs, including transport cost overruns, and in the event of
cost overruns in any particular category, quantities would be adjusted accordingly.
International inflation would be covered by the unallocated amount.
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDrrURE
($ million)
Local   Foreign      Total
Imported goods plus freight and duties              4.8       16.1      20.9
Consultant services                                 0.0        1.9        1.9
Other local cost/unallocated                        0.6        2.0       2.6
Total                                            5.4      20.0       25.4
3.2         Local costs of this project would amount to $5.4 million. Most of this
amount is the duties (15 percent plus, in some cases, an additional 10 percent of sales tax)
and domestic freight for transporting the goods. Foreign costs would amount to $20.0
million; that would include the import of goods, consultant services and unallocated
amounts to be financed under the IDA credit.
3.3         The proposed IDA credit would be made to Mongolia on standard IDA
terms. End-users would advance the local currency equivalent of imported equipment,
specialized vehicles, spare parts, materials, petroleum products, and technical services.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Local           Foreign           Total
IDA                                      -             20.0            20.0
End-users                              5.4                 -            5.4
Total                              5.4              20.0            25.4
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.4         The Ministry of Finance would have overall implementation responsibilities
for the project. Procurement/disbursement matters for goods would be handled by the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI). MTI's performance during implementation of the
Economic Rehabilitation Credit, now almost completely disbursed, was satisfactory and



- 21 -
its project unit and staff are still in place. The technical assistance components of the
project would be handled by each user agency, in coordination with the line ministry and
IDA.
3.5          Since this project would finance critically needed imports, and would
contribute to the success of the stabilization and reform program under implementation,
agreement was reached during appraisal on advancing procurement so as to expedite
disbursements once the credit is approved and effective. Consequently, an understanding
was reached during appraisal on starting, immediately, the process of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International Bidding (LIB), and Direct Purchases
(DP). Moreover, the Government decided to use proceeds from the IDA-TAC to finance
the services of an agency to assist the Government in the preparation of the documentation
leading to the selection of the companies from which goods will be procured. This
assistance will include the training of local personnel from MTI and the participating end-
user agencies, on procurement procedures and policies.
3.6         The overall impact of the project will depend, particularly for the copper and
coal components, on the effective implementation of the TA components. For this reason,
the selection of consultants is already advanced.
3.7         The Ministry of Environment will inspect the replacement of the gasoline
pumps to make sure that the work is done properly. The Ministry of Environment would
be kept informed on the studies pertaining to the tailing pond and the dam stability (at
Erdenet).
C. PROCUREMENT
3.8          All goods and services will be procured in accordance with IDA
Procurement Guidelines. All new equipment items were grouped according to their
characteristics into five bid packages. Three procurement modes were selected after
careful scrutiny of the requirements and taking into account the best interests of the
project:
Four of the bid packages were considered appropriate for purchase by
international competitive bidding (ICB), for approximately $12.2 million or
61 percent of the credit.
*     The fifth bid package involves highly specialized equipment under small
contracts, most efficiently purchased using limited international bidding
(LIB) procedures, for $0.5 million or 2.5 percent of the total.
*     All the remaining goods to be purchased under the project are urgently
needed spare parts for existing equipment manufactured in the CIS and for
major overhaul of locomotives and wheel sets by CIS contractors (readily
accessible through the same rail system) specialized in this sort of work.
Since there is no other practical alternative, these spare parts would be



- 22 -
purchased directly from the CIS vendors of the original equipment.
Similarly, sole source contracting for the overhaul work of the locomotives
would be followed. Goods and services to be purchased directly amount to
about $5.4 million, or 27 percent of the credit.
3.9          The ICB package includes: graders, front-end loaders, bulldozers, wheel
dozers, explosives, high-speed lubricants, rail track accessories, and fuel dispensing
pumps. All the items are commercially available worldwide, traded internationally and do
not need to be specially manufactured. The bidding documents used successfully in the
previous Economic Rehabilitation Project would be used again. They were prepared
following the Bank's standard bidding documents for procurement of goods. In bid
evaluation under ICB, goods manufactured within Mongolia may be granted a margin of
preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the relevant prevailing
level of customs' duties to be paid by the beneficiary agencies, if they are not exempted
from import duties, whichever are lower.
3.10        The only LIB package is for special vehicles used in the mines to transport
explosives, fuels, lubricants, and personnel. There are only a few manufacturers of such
vehicles. Since the total amount is estimated at about $500,000 for the six special vehicles
(two of each kind), the different suppliers well known in the mining trade would be
contacted directly (i.e., without advertisement) to submit bids but following all other ICB
procedures.
3.11        The detailed lists of spare parts for the two coal mines (Baga Nuur and
Sharyn Gol) and for Mongolian Railways have been extensively reviewed by IDA's sector
technical specialists as to their proprietary nature, urgency and quantity needed. Particular
attention was given to the extent and quality of the overhaul work on the locomotives and
wheel sets.  For the coal mines, direct purchase contracts would amount to about
$0.9 million and for the railway, about $4.5 million. Therefore, the total would amount
to $5.4 million equivalent of the credit.
3.12        Draft technical specifications have already been prepared for the ICB and
LIB bid packages. Similarly, the direct purchase contracts have been drafted, in a format
acceptable to IDA. These would be reviewed and finalized by MTI in collaboration with
the user agencies. All contracts would be subject to prior review by IDA. Up to
$2 million of the eligible imports for which expenditures were made after completion of
appraisal (July 8, 1993) would be eligible for retroactive financing. This would allow
urgent procurement actions prior to effectiveness of the credit to proceed without delay.
3.13        MTI is responsible for coordinating all procurement work with the user
agencies, undertaking the procurement transactions, monitoring the progress of
procurement actions and supervising the delivery of the items contracted to be purchased
or overhauled. MTI had a similar responsibility in the implementation of the ERC, which
it undertook very satisfactorily. MTI's project unit is fully functional and staff who have
gained considerable experience in IDA's procurement procedures and practices are still in
place.  Arrangements have been made to secure the expert services of the same



- 23 -
procurement consultant who assisted the MTI project unit in handling IDA financial
procurement work in the previous project.
Table 3.4: PRoc uREMiENT ARRANGEMEENTS
($ million)
ICB         LIB       Other        Total
Goods
Equipment, spare parts and services
for mining and railways; dispensing
pumps and high-speed oil                12.2       0.5       10. 8/a     23.5
(12.2)    (0.5)      (5.4)      (18.1)
Consultancies
Technical Assistance                       -        -          1.9/b       1.9
(1.9)       (1.9)
Total                                 12.2      0.5        12.7        25.4
(12.2)    (0.5)       (7.3)     (20.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Contingencies have been prorated.
/a Direct Purchasing of railways spare parts and overhauls. Local costs are also
included.
/b Consultants selected following Bank guidelines.
3.14         All the necessary steps are being taken to ensure that advance procurement
and contracting actions are satisfactory and in conformity with the Procurement Guidelines.
The borrower has been made fully aware of the risks entailed. The necessary procurement
planning and scheduling of the various activities have been well organized by MTI with
the cooperation of the beneficiary agencies (Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal mines,
Erdenet, Petroleum Import Concern and Mongol Railway).
3.15         Two sets of technical service contracts are presently envisaged for
$1.9 million or 9.5 percent of the credit. The first set involves the assistance to the coal
sector for: (a) outside expert services to upgrade mining operations in the Baga Nuur and
Sharyn Gol coal mines; and (b) consultant services to undertake a nationwide coal pricing
study. The second set is for the Erdenet copper complex involving three contracts for
consultant services to develop: (a) a metallurgical testing program; (b) an environmental



- 24 -
action plan; and (c) a cost and financial accounting system. Consultants would be selected
in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Consultants.
3.16        Based on the appraisal mission's assessment of the items proposed for
financing and the advanced state of procurement planning, the arrangements described in
the "Procurement Planning Timetable" (Annex A) are considered appropriate and feasible.
D. DISBURSEMENTS, AccouNTs AND AuDITS
3.17        Disbursements would be made on the basis of Direct Payment to the
suppliers. Direct payments would also be used for the consultants providing the Technical
Assistance services. Payments would exceed $20,000 equivalent. Disbursements would
be on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and services (CIF
Ulaanbaatar or CIF at the site of goods requiring assembly and/or commissioning by
suppliers); and, for consultant services, 100 percent.  Full documentation would be
provided for payments to be carried out. The Ministry of Trade would be responsible for
making sure that each user agency makes the necessary arrangements for paying handling
costs, duties (as applicable), and any local transport costs. The Ministry of Finance would
be responsible for collecting from end-users all the local counterpart funds, and for
enforcing the agreed upon conditionalities.
3.18        Project accounts would be maintained at MTI.  The account for the
counterpart funds, however, would be maintained at the Ministry of Finance. The project
account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The annual audit
report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The
project completion date would be June 30, 1995; the Credit closing date, December 31,
1995.



- 25 -
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFTS
4.1         The project, designed to support Mongolia's stabilization and reform
program, would help maintain and increase essential output and services in sectors of the
economy that are crucial to the resumption of growth, particularly the minerals and coal
sectors. Benefits expected from each component have been described before and are
summarized as follows:
Summary of Expected Benefits from the Project
*     Coal: (a) Increase in coal production; (b) formulation of a rational and
efficient pricing mechanism; and (c) improvement in the financial position
of the coal mines.
e     qCopper: (a) Diversification of supplier sources; (b) introduction of ICB at
the copper company; (c) maximization of copper concentrate and recovery;
(d) introduction of modem cost, financial, and management information
systems; (e) development of a Plan of Action regarding environmental issues
(at the tailing pond); and (f) policy dialogue on corporate development
program.
*     Railways: (a) Increased efficiency of MR through improved availability of
spare parts and reduction in backlog for servicing locomotives; (b) improved
transport efficiency for coal thereby also improving the energy situation.
*     Lubricants: Increased productivity and longevity of machinery through the
use of high-speed lubricants.
*     Changing Gasoline Pumps:  (a) Elimination of leakages; (b) positive
environmental impact; (c) reduction of safety hazards to consumers and
attendants at gasoline stations; (d) reduction of possible siphoning of
gasoline by attendants; thus, (e) improving the financial situation of the
Petroleum Import Concern.
B. PROJECTS RISKS
4.2         Project risks are essentially twofold. First, as is usually the case with
countries undergoing deep adjustments, performance in the implementation of the
stabilization and reform program agreed with the Fund and the World Bank and reflected



- 26 -
in the PFP could be less than fully satisfactory.  That would undermine the results
expected from this project. The commitment and initial actions shown so far by the
Government in the implementation of the program, however, provide assurance and are
the basis for going ahead with this operation.  Second, payment of local currency
counterpart funds to the government by the user agencies concerned may be delayed or
inadequate. This risk is minimized by Government's commitment to: (a) implement
appropriate price/tariff policies that would improve the cash flow situation of user
companies; and (b) improve management of public expenditure which would allow use of
already allocated budgetary funds for priority uses, including the financing of counterpart
funds.
4.3         In addition, there are some risks connected to various components of the
Project. For example, in the coal sector, there is a risk that the authorities may delay
implementing quarterly price adjustments which would adversely affect the financial
viability of the coal mining companies. To the extent that price adjustments are associated
with progress in the stabilization program (to which the authorities are committed), the risk
of delaying coal price adjustments is minimized. In the copper sector, there is a small risk
that the authorities will not take advantage of the TA results, including implementation of
the cost and financial accounting and Management Information Systems. Efforts will be
made during follow-up supervision missions to ensure the effectiveness of all TA-
components. In the railway sector, there could be unexpected delays in the servicing and
delivery of materials from  the direct purchase source.  However, with appropriate
financing, this risk should be minimal. Finally, there could be some delays in installing
the gasoline dispensing pumps since the supplier is only expected to install three to five
pumps for demonstration purpose. The installation process is, however, a relatively simple
procedure, and this should not pose a significant problem.



- 27 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that it will:
(a)   carry out its Economic Strategy for the medium term (Annex B) in a manner
satisfactory to the Association (para. 1.8);
(b)   collect from the end-users the local currency equivalent of the foreign
currency costs calculated for the costs of goods, on the basis of cost,
insurance and freight (c.i.f.), and cost of services at the unified interbank
floating exchange rate prevailing when delivered goods are cleared by
customs or when the services have been paid for by IDA (para. 2.4);
(c)   starting in March 1994 and until the recommendations included in the coal
pricing study are implemented, adjust the price of coal, on a quarterly basis,
to keep pace with domestic inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) estimated by the Borrowers' State Statistical Office (para. 2. 10);
(d)   undertake and, by June 30, 1994, complete a study on coal pricing in
consultation with the Association. The results and recommendations of the
coal study would be discussed with the Association and steps would be taken
for their implementation (para. 2.12); and
(e)   adjust the domestic prices of gasoline, diesel and lubricants to reflect
international prices and exchange rates, in accordance with a formula agreed
with the Association during negotiations (para. 2.35).
5.2         With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 14.2 million ($20 million equivalent) to Mongolia, on standard IDA
terms with a 40-year maturity.



- 28 -                         ANNEX A
PROCUREMENT PLANNING TIMETABLE
(As of Appraisal)
1.  Appraisal mission receives:                          MTI;
(a) technical specification for all ICB and LIB bidding  July 8
(Coal mines, Erdenet copper mines, Petroleum Import
Concern, Mongolian Railways); and
(b) list all items in direct purchase contracts for IDA no
objection.
2.  Appraisal mission receives copy of:                   MTI;
(a) model ICB documents; and                         July 8
(b) model direct purchase contract for IDA no objection.
3.  Submit draft notices of advance ICB procurement to   MTI;
appraisal mission for IDA approval to appear in UN   July 8
Development Business.
4.  Request appraisal mission for IDA agreement to use LIB    MTI;
for procurement of ANFO trucks used in coal mines.   July 8
5.  Collaborate with Mongolian Railways and forwarding
agents (Tuushin and Mongol Tekh) regarding likely    MTI; Now until com-
volume of freight and logistical arrangements needed to    pletion of delivery
ensure timely delivery.
6.  Clarify arrangements, confirm selection and finalize  MTI;
contract for procurement expert; prepare with appraisal    July 8
mission the letter of appointment.
7.  Submit to IDA short list of consultants for 3 technical  MoEnergy,
assistance contracts; and sole source contracting for 2  Erdenet;
consulting services (coal operation assistance; copper  July 20
testing) for IDA comments and no objection.
8.  Collect all necessary information and approvals; finalize    MTI;
all inputs for procurement implementation, preparation of   July 25
final bid documents and direct purchase contracts, in time
for procurement expert's arrival at end July.



- 29 -                         ANNEX A
9.  Finalize LOI, TOR and draft contracts for the five    MoEnergy,
consulting services. Send out documents to consultants.    Erdenet;
August 8
10. Bid documents for ICB and LIB packages should be     MTI;
printed and ready for public purchase. Send copies of all  September 15
bidding documents to IDA.
11. Send copies of final negotiated contracts for direct  MTI;
purchase of spare parts and sole source overhaul services   September 30
to IDA for no objection. Such contracts should be valid
for at least three months.
12. Receipt of final proposals from consultants for the 5  MoEnergy,
technical assistance components. Evaluate the proposals    Erdenet;
for the 3 competitive TA services. Send evaluation report  October 15
and award recommendation to IDA for no objection.
13. Answer bidder questions and provide clarification of ICB    MTI;
and LIB bid documents.                               October 1
14. Organize and arrange for receipt of ICB and LIB offers  MTI;
and public bid opening.                              October 15
15. Evaluate ICB and LIB offers, and send evaluation reports   MTI;
and award recommendation to IDA for no objection.    October 30
16. Prepare letters to notify contract awards to selected  MoEnergy,
consultants, while awaiting IDA no objection.        Erdenet;
November 15
17. Prepare letters to notify contract awards to selected  MTI;
evaluated bidder for each ICB and LIB package, while  October 30
awaiting IDA no objection.
18. Await telex from IDA confirming Credit declared      MTI, MoE, Erdenet;
effective and promptly send letters mentioned in 16 and  Date of Credit
17 above. Send copies of letters to IDA.             Effectiveness,
Late-October
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LIB: Limited International Bidding
LOI: Letter of Intent
TOR: Terms of Reference
IDA: International Development Agency



- 30 -                         ANNEX B
GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA: STATEMENT OF
ECONOMIC STRATEGY FOR THE MEDIUM TERM
Introduction
1.          Mongolia has embarked upon a program of stabilization and economic
transformation. We are convinced that the present emergency situation will be overcome
with our policy actions and the help of the international community. Meanwhile, we
intend to continue the path of economic transformation initiated in 1990.
2.          Mongolia's stabilization and adjustment efforts have reached a new stage.
We have reached agreement with the IMF on a Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) program. The Policy Framework Paper (PFP) issued in conjunction with the IMF
and IDA states our main policies and objectives for the next three years. Our Government
believes that our efforts to speed up the establishment of a market economy will result in
a gradual resumption of growth and improvement in the living standards of the population.
We are committed to respect democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
3.          Our central concern is to overcome the present critical situation, to stabilize
the economy and to implement systemic and structural changes. Mongolia's transformation
into a market economy is proceeding on three basic fronts: changes in ownership of
assets, reduction and change in the nature of Government intervention, and institutional
changes.
Recent Developments
4.          Mongolia's economy has suffered from disruptions in trade and payments
with the former USSR and CMEA. Financial and technical assistance from the former
USSR (amounting to almost 30 percent of GDP) disappeared almost completely. We still
feel the impact of these events. However, our Government recognizes that policy slippage
have also been partially responsible for the present high inflation and for the lack of
sufficient supply response by the newly born private sector.
5.          Real GDP declined by about 10 percent in 1992, following a decline of
almost 8 percent in 1991. Although some expansion took place in private activities,
industry and agriculture were constrained by shortages of intermediate goods and spare
parts. Weather also played an adverse role in agriculture. Investments have fallen sharply
since 1990 reflecting, to a large extent, the phasing out of projects financed by the former
USSR and the fact that projects financed by new donors can only be designed and
implemented gradually.



- 31 -                         ANNEX B
6.          By the end of 1992, inflation exceeded 300 percent.  While price
liberalization is partly responsible for this development, the Government recognizes that
lax monetary and credit policies added to inflation during the first part of 1992. The fiscal
deficit was held at about 10 percent of GDP in 1992, financed mainly with external
resources.
7.          A highly overvalued currency prevailed during 1992. However, a free,
unified foreign exchange rate market was introduced in May 1993. The medium and long-
term external debt has risen rapidly to about $315 million by the end of 1992. It is made
up of new commercial borrowing and new aid flows. This debt does not include the debt
to the former CMEA, denominated in transferable rubles (TR), of TR 10.6 billion which
is being negotiated at present. In addition, external arrears amounted to $52 million at the
end of 1992.
8.          Our external situation deteriorated further in 1992. Merchandise exports
increased somewhat while imports declined as the reduction in external assistance from
Russia was only partially offset by new donor assistance. The deficit in current account
reached $32 million in 1992. This relative low level reflects an equally low level of
imports rather than a good overall balance of payments performance. Net official reserves
fell to $14 million, or 1.9 weeks of imports, by December 1992.
Structural Reforms and Medium-Term Objectives
9.          Over the past two years, we have initiated deep economic reforms. First
of all, a program of privatization through vouchers distributed to the population was
initiated. Over 95 percent of small- and medium-size public enterprises were privatized,
and about 450 large public enterprises were transferred to private owners for vouchers,
through the stock exchange. There are now more than 6,000 active private enterprises
registered in the country.  Second, practically all prices have been freed from
administrative controls and a more realistic pricing policy is being applied to goods and
services still subject to administered prices (energy, rents, and public utilities and
services). Third, a two-tiered banking system was created with the establishment of a
central bank and commercial banks. Fourth, steps were taken to create a modem tax
system. Finally, several laws were enacted to provide the legal framework for a market-
oriented economy. These include Privatization Law, Bankruptcy Law, Anti-monopoly
Law, amendments to the Civil Code regarding property ownership, Consumer Law,
Foreign Investment Law, Customs Law, Tax Laws, Law on Economic Entities, Labor Law
and Banking Law.
10.         As stated in the PFP, the medium-term macroeconomic objectives of the
Government are to reverse the decline in output, restore financial stability, and make
progress toward external viability. The program aims at limiting the contraction of
economic activity to less than 2 percent in 1993 and restore positive real GDP growth
thereafter. This program is recognized to be an ambitious, realization of which will
require favorable external conditions and full implementation of the structural changes
outlined in the PFP and in this statement.



- 32 -                           ANNEX B
11.         The Government acknowledges that restoration of economic growth will
depend on recovery in the agriculture, industry, and service sectors, especially in activities
related to exports. A positive supply response in agriculture/livestock is expected from the
establishment of market-determined producer prices and appropriate exchange rates, the
elimination of barriers to agricultural exports (including mandatory state orders and export
licensing), and access to foreign exchange for essential inputs. The service sector offers
potential for gains in private employment in areas such as tourism, external and internal
trade, business and professional services, and distribution. Some industrial subsectors,
such as small import substituting consumer goods industries, initiated with private capital,
should also begin contributing to growth. However, output of many traditional industries
is expected to remain stagnant, or to decline, as more rational price structures and hard
budget constraints force nonviable entities to close down and/or undergo rehabilitation and
restructuring.
The Govermnent Stabilization Program
12.         Our Government is committed to continuing and reinforcing our initial
stabilization efforts. Our goal is to decrease the inflation rate from over 320 percent at the
end of 1992 to about 10 percent by 1995. This ambitious target will be achieved by a
combination of tight monetary policies, realistic interest rate policies, increase in taxation,
control in public expenditures, including elimination of direct subsidies to state enterprises,
and the introduction of market-determined exchange rates. Specific measures to stabilize
the economy are explained below.
13.         Monetary and Financial Policies. Expansion in money supply and credit
will be consistent with achieving the reduced inflation targets. The lending rate will be
free of Government control, and interest rates charged by the Bank of Mongolia will
continue to be positive in real terms. Reserve requirements have doubled (to an average
of 17 percent). Credit ceiling were established on individual bank lending to nonbanks.
This direct policy mechanism will be abolished as bank supervision and use of indirect
policy tools, including the reserve requirements, becomes effective.
14.         To restore confidence in, and to further develop, the commercial banking
system, the Bank of Mongolia's supervisory capabilities are being strengthened
significantly. The authority to conduct on-site supervision will be confirmed through
passage of a permanent Central Bank Statute. The department of banking regulation and
supervision is developing guidelines, requirements, and limits for capital adequacy (using
risk-based assessment) and prudential liquidity connected to lending and management of
foreign exchange operations. A review of commercial bank portfolios is being undertaken,
and the commercial banks will be required to improve the overall quality of their loan
portfolios.
15.         To facilitate appraisal of credit risk, a system  of national accounting
standards will be developed with IDA technical assistance. These standards will be applied
to selected public enterprises in 1994 and extended to all public enterprises thereafter.
Commercial banks will be required to publish balance sheets and income statements by



- 33 -                          ANNEX B
end-1994, and steps will be taken to reduce lags in booking transactions and in reporting
to the Bank of Mongolia.
16.         Budgetary Policies.  The economic role of the Government is being
redefined. The medium-term goal is to limit the role of Government to provision of basic
public services, economic infrastructure, defense, and protection of the lowest income
groups and the environment, with the private sector taking the lead role in productive
activities. Budgetary reforms are focusing on: (a) continuing the process of modernizing
the tax system and broadening the tax base; (b) strengthening the monitoring and control
of budgetary revenues and expenditures; and (c) rationalizing budgetary expenditures,
while improving the cost effectiveness in the delivery of government services.
17.         New tax measures were introduced in early 1993. A 10 percent sales tax
on domestic production and imports was introduced (replacing the temporary surcharge on
imports adopted in late 1991), and the scope of customs duty exemptions was reduced.
Measures to strengthen administration of these taxes will be adopted, based on technical
assistance recommendations provided by the IMF, including the introduction in 1993 of
a customs valuation code and the establishment of individual taxpayer identification
numbers.
18.         Expenditures will be restrained to levels consistent with the fiscal deficit
targets. Measures to rationalize expenditure will concentrate on, but not be limited to, the
areas of education, health, social security, and public investments while ensuring an
adequate safety net for the truly needy.
*     Education. The Government has initiated a program to: (a) further reduce
the ratio of administrative personnel to teachers; (b) increase the number of
pupils per teachers, presently about 10 for higher education and 20 for
primary and secondary schools; (c) reduce subsidies to students abroad; and
(d) reduce the amount of stipends for students and introduce a policy of
systematic targeting.
*     Health. The Government is pursuing a very active program to reverse the
deterioration of health services suffered during the last two years. Home
deliveries have been increasing due to the closing of maternal waiting
rooms. As a result, an increase in mortality rates has been observed.
Therefore, the Government will increase the allocation of funds for waiting
room and, concomitantly. will reduce the construction of hospitals which are
not a sectoral priority. The Government will minimize its involvement in
drug manufacturing industries.
*     Social Security System. The social security system (SSS) required the
largest Government subsidy, equivalent to 4.4 percent of the GDP in 1992.
The Government is therefore pursuing measures to reduce the SSS deficit
as a key requirement to reduce the budget deficit. The introduction of a
new SSS will take place in parallel with some key measures aimed at



- 34 -                          ANNEX B
reducing the subsidy of the SSS over the next two years. First, workers
contributions of not less than 4 percent of wages and salaries will be
introduced. Second, early retirement options will be reduced. Third, other
benefits including extended matemity leave will be reduced.
Transport Tariffs. The Government will implement, starting in 1994, a
program of tariff rationalization, based on the actual cost of gasoline and
diesel. This program will be based on the finding of a study financed under
an IDA TA Credit. Prices of gasoline and diesel will be based on the
intemational price at a realistic exchange rate. Any subsidy would be
transparent and in line with a level of budgetary deficit consistent with the
stabilization program;
*     Agricultural/Livestock Expenditures.  The Govemment has recently
initiated a program for phasing out subsidies to fodder transport. We will
concentrate our efforts on the delivery of services to facilitate the supply
response of the agricultural/livestock sector. Privatization of veterinary
services will continue at a pace that will not disrupt their existing provision.
*     Public Sector Investment. We are undertaking a comprehensive review to
identify an appropriate rolling, three-year public sector investment program.
Investment criteria have been established based on the project belonging to
the domain of the public sector, minimum rates of return (not applicable in
all cases, however), and sectoral strategies. The Govemment will refrain
from participating or financing projects falling within the domain of the
private sector. Rate of return criteria will not be applicable in the case of
projects within the social sectors (education, health, etc.).
Based on the above-mentioned criteria, the Govemment will decide about
new investments and the fate of projects under implementation. While new,
sound projects are identified and implemented, we are taken measures
conceming several controversial projects under implementation: (a) the
Government is studying, in some cases with IDA assistance, available
options regarding projects that appear to have low or negative rate of return
(i.e., Minimetal project). Meanwhile, new investments in those projects
will be minimized to maintain the assets in acceptable conditions; (b) during
1993 and 1994, a program of privatization of investments that belong to
domain of the private sector will take place (i.e., Genghis Khan Hotel, Meat
Plants); (c) as mentioned before, a reallocation of investments-from
construction of hospitals to more waiting rooms-will take place in the
health sector; and (d) new prospective projects will be carefully scrutinized
before deciding on their implementation (i.e., Paper Plant, Sugar Factory).
*     Budgetary Management and Control. In addition to improving the quality
of public expenditures, the management and control of govemment
expenditures by the Ministry of Finance will be strengthened through the



- 35 -                          ANNEX B
implementation of recent IMF technical assistance recommendations. These
improvements cover budgetary classification, fiscal forecasting, treasury
management, fiscal reporting and auditing.
Private Sector Development
19.         The Government will enhance and speed up the process of privatization
through the introduction of secondary markets for vouchers and shares. The Government
will initiate a program of privatization of buildings and urban land. To regulate stock
exchange transactions, a Securities Law, under preparation, is expected to be enacted in
1994. To promote foreign trade, export licenses have been abolished (except for a limited
number of commodities mostly for environmental reasons or when the import market is
imposing quotas). The Government has also discontinued the practice of imposing
minimum export prices and state orders.  No export taxes will be maintained or
introduced. The Government is fully aware that in order to avoid the negative impact of
import taxes on exports, a simplified drawback system is necessary.  Consequently,
additional work will be undertaken during 1994 to implement a duty drawback system.
20.         The Government has enacted a new Foreign Investment Law to make the
country more open to direct foreign investment. Further, a draft of the Mining Law has
been prepared with financing from the IDA TA and is expected to be enacted soon.
21.         Only the price of utilities, rents, selected public services and petroleum
products remain subject to Government control. Prices of petroleum products reflect their
international cost. The ration system has been eliminated since August 1993, and the
Government will compete with the private sector in buying and selling goods as state
orders are abolished.
22.         Private sector wages and salaries have been liberalized. For the public
sector, the Government has established a minimum wage and regulate wages and salaries
of budgetary agencies and agencies receiving budgetary transfers.   A  Tripartite
Commission, consisting of representatives of Government, state enterprises and labor is
guiding wage policies in the public sector. Increases in wages and pensions will be held
below inflation levels. However, in the context of this general stabilization policy, efforts
are underway by the Government to retain qualified personnel and to initiate a policy of
retrenchment of redundant workers.
Social Safety Net
23.         The Government is very concerned about the drop in living standards
associated with the transitional difficulties to a market-based economy. We acknowledge
that the privatization process is likely to generate further unemployment as loss-making
enterprises close down. Budgetary difficulties led to a reduction of services: heath,
education, and transportation to some poor areas. In addition, some groups have become
more vulnerable as a result of rising alcoholism, child neglect, and crime. Increased
economic strain combined with limited training in family planning have resulted in a surge



- 36 -                         ANNEX B
in abortions. This, in turn, is associated with high matemal mortality rates. As mentioned
before, maternal mortality increased as some waiting homes, financed by now disbanded
cooperatives, were closed down. Pensions have become, in some cases, extremely low.
Government estimates of people living in absolute poverty was 16 percent of the population
in 1992.
24.         The Government is taking measures to tackle the above mentioned issues.
First of all, it continues the severance pay system for redundant workers (for five months).
Second, it has created a Fund for Poverty Alleviation that allows the provision of
assistance to families (i.e., tools, animals, training programs for unemployed and small
entrepreneurs).  Third, a program  for reopening maternal waiting homes is under
consideration. Fourth, family planning programs are being strengthened (in cooperation
with UNFPA). Fifth, special provisions for people unable to pay the cost recovery fees
(for education and health) have been introduced. Sixth, minimum pensions will be
monitored and increased as a way of reducing extreme poverty among their recipients.
Finally, the Government will monitor poverty-related indicators as a way of anticipating
problems and facilitating policy response. To assist the Statistics Office in identifying and
compiling appropriate indicators, a program of TA has been agreed with IDA.
Environment
25.         The Government is committed to limiting the adverse environmental effects
caused by economic activities. An Environmental Action Plan is being prepared and is
expected to be completed in early 1994. It will focus on measures to protect the
environment from negative aspects of mining exploration, to stop soil erosion, and to
reduce soil and water pollution in urban areas. Assistance from IDA is being received to
evaluate specific ways of preventing the tailings pond (close to Erdenet copper mine) from
contaminating the surrounding area and to analyze the stability of the tailing ponds dam.
A rangeland management study will be initiated in 1993 to address the effects of soil
erosion.
Sectoral Policies
26.         External Sector Refonrs. As mentioned before, the Government has
initiated a policy of decentralizing foreign trade activities and has abolished general export
licensing except for a limited number of commodities. Steps have also been taken to
eliminate government-imposed barriers to trade, including quotas, most export bans (except
for bona fide purposes, e.g., environmental), and minimum export prices. Requirements
to seek permission for, or conditions attached to, engaging in domestic procurement of
exportable goods and marketing of imported goods have also been eliminated. The
previous monopoly position of the foreign trade corporations has been abolished, and many
have already been privatized.
27.         The Government will implement a realistic exchange rate policy. A unified
market-determined floating exchange rate system has been introduced in May 1993.
Foreign exchange surrender requirements for public enterprises, not exceeding 50 percent,



- 37 -                         ANNEX B
will be applied on a transitional basis to provide foreign exchange for official purposes,
including debt service, reserve accumulation and certain government imports.  All
surrendered foreign exchange proceeds will be channeled through the banking system.
Importers with bona fide documentation will have unrestricted access to the foreign
exchange market.
28.         Rules covering dealing, risk exposure and portfolio management have been
established for commercial banks holding a license to engage in foreign exchange
operations. Under its permanent statute, the Bank of Mongolia will be granted the
necessary authority and effective powers to enforce rules and regulations governing foreign
exchange operations.
29.         The major share of Mongolia's external debt obligations is owed to former
CMEA members, mainly to the Russian Federation, and is denominated in transferable
rubles. From January 1, 1991, all outstanding debt payments, as well as payments and
clearing mechanisms through the IBEC, were suspended by mutual agreement. Agreement
was reached, in principle, with the former USSR, and reconfirmed by the Russian
Federation that future debt service will not be such as to impede Mongolia's economic
development. In mid-1992, further agreement was reached with the Russian Federation
on postponing debt service on medium and long-term debt falling due through 1995, until
at least the year 2000. Proposals on modalities for valuation and future settlement of the
Mongolian debt are under negotiation, and the Government is seeking to renegotiate
outstanding IBEC balances owed to the Russian Federation. The Government has also
undertaken discussions with other former CMEA members to settle outstanding IBEC
balances.
30.         The Government is seeking to renegotiate its major commercial debt
obligations. To strengthen debt management, all external borrowing of the public sector
and private sector enterprises will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mongolia, and the authorization of the Minister of Finance will be required for all public
and publicly guaranteed borrowing. Until Mongolia's external financial position is more
firmly established, the Government and the Bank of Mongolia will refrain from short-term
borrowing (credits with original maturity of one year or less) and/or guaranteeing of such
loans, excluding normal import-related credits. The contracting of public and publicly
guaranteed loans in the medium-term maturity range on nonconcessional terms will also
be strictly controlled.
31.         Agriculture/Livestock. A draft law will be presented to Parliament to
establish long-term leasing of agricultural land. Only research farms will remain under
public control. In keeping with nomadic tradition, pasture land will remain under state
ownership but consideration will be given to a system of land leasing.
32.         To encourage a significant supply response and to stimulate producers and
traders of agricultural products to search for new and expanded export markets, all bans
on private exports of agricultural products have been lifted, concomitant with giving
private sector agents full access to the purchase of such commodities either directly from



- 38 -                           ANNEX B
producers or through intermediaries. Over the medium term, improvement in agricultural
incomes through these measures will permit an increase in the price of veterinary service
charges to full cost recovery levels.
33.          Industry. The Government has established hard budget constraints on state
enterprises through the removal of remaining direct and indirect subsidies, the phased
elimination of directed bank credit, and a requirement that enterprises pay market-
determined prices for domestically produced and imported inputs. State enterprises that
cannot be restructured into viable units in the new market environment will be identified
and closed down. The Government has initiated a process of budgetary oversight of the
financial position of public enterprises excluded from full privatization, even as subsidies
and remaining centralized controls over prices, employment and other operating decisions
are eliminated.
34.          Energy. Enterprises in this sector will remain mainly under state ownership
in the near term. For the mainly coal-based power plants, short run priority has been
given to facilitating coal production through donor-financed imports of new equipment and
spare parts and the rehabilitation of old equipment needed for mining and coal transport.
The import costs for electricity procured from the Russian (CEA) grid will be passed on
through energy tariffs.  A system  of energy audits of major enterprises to identify
additional methods of conserving energy will be developed, with assistance from the ADB,
for introduction in 1994. As the more urgent sectoral problems are overcome, the
Govemment intends to undertake a comprehensive Energy Assessment, not later than 1994,
to identify longer-term investments and policies in the sector. A study of power tariffs will
be undertaken. Based on this study and improvements in accounting practices, power
tariffs will be set in 1994 so as to cover fully operating and capital costs. Before an
integrated energy tariff structure is implemented, the Government plans to introduce
periodic tariff adjustments to increase the price of energy in real terms. In planning
policies and investments, environmental considerations will play a crucial role.
35.         The Government will undertake a strategic review of its petroleum supply
and distribution system with a view of prioritizing the use of petroleum products and
improving procurement, transport and storage to limit supply interruptions. Prices of
petroleum products will be adjusted to fully cover costs, including full and immediate pass-
through from exchange rate depreciation, in order to promote conservation and to provide
resources for improving transport and storage facilities.
36.         Mineral. The main objective of the Mongolian Government is to create an
environment favorable to the growth of the mining sector, particularly by attracting
investments by international mining companies. Proposed legislation, regulations and
administrative procedures will be developed on the basis of the following principles:
(a)   The overall direction of legislation and regulations will be promotional and
will reflect the objective of attracting private investors to the Mongolian
mining sector.



- 39 -                          ANNEX B
(b)   Licenses for exploration and mining will be issued by the Ministry of
Geology and Mineral Resources of Mongolia with a minimum of
administrative requirements.
(c)   Mining rights will be issued for renewable periods of time and holders of
concessions will be allowed to sell their mining titles to other investors
provided the purchaser agrees to fulfill the obligations under which activities
covered by the titles are to be carried out.
(d)   Sustainable mining development will be ensured through appropriate
regulations and standards regarding environmental, health and safety
aspects.   Effective monitoring and enforcement capabilities will be
established.
(e)   Gold mining will be generally subjected to the same rules as other minerals.
However, as an exception to the general principle of equal treatment for
Mongolian and foreign investors, priority will be given to Mongolian
individuals and firms for the development of small placer mines. Such
priority will not be given for hard rock and large placer gold mining.
37.         Existing public sector mining operations will be commercialized. The shares
of the new corporations will be assigned to the present owners (for example, in the case
of Erdenet 51 percent of the shares will belong to the Mongolian Government and
49 percent to Russia). The question of possible future changes in the ownership of shares
after commercialization will be addressed in the near future. The objective of the
commercialization is to increase the busir,.ss orientation of the mines, so they would
operate like a private corporation. In particular the corporations would introduce the
following:
(a)   Cost accounting, budgeting by cost centers, management information
systems.
(b)   Energy audits, metallurgical audits and other procedures to increase
efficiency.
(c)   International bidding, shopping and other purchasing procedures designed
to maximize efficiency and to obtain the full benefits deriving from the
opening of the Mongolian economy to the international markets.
(d)   Financial accounting including the preparation of income statements and
balance sheets to be audited according to usually accepted accounting
principles.
(e)   Marketing plans and business plans including financial projections (income
statement, balance sheet, cash flow projections).



- 40 -                         ANNEX B
38.         The commercialization may also entail a renegotiation of the agreements
with the foreign partners, which should be transformed into shareholders agreements, loan
agreements, technical assistance agreements, contracts to provide equipment, contracts to
provide specialized manpower, purchasing contracts for mineral products, etc.
39.         Transportation. The bulk of foreign trade is transported over the rail
network through Russia and China. Agreement has been reached to secure Mongolia's
access to the port of Tianjin in China, but differences in gauges between Mongolia and
China create bottlenecks at the border, and the intensive use of Chinese railways leaves
little spare capacity for transit traffic. Investment in new technology to ease the difficulties
caused by the differences in rail gauges is being sought, and railway rehabilitation is being
financed by a concessional project loan from Japan. Mongolia has air links only with the
Russian Federation and China, but has initiated negotiations to establish air links with other
countries in the region. In April, Mongolia has successfully negotiated air links with
Singapore. An ADB project will assist in improving the airport facilities in Ulaanbaatar.
Nearly three fourths of domestic freight is carried over the existing road network.
However, the condition of the network is poor with only 3 percent of the total paved. The
rapid increase in private vehicles and the prospective privatization of some transport
corporations should ease some of the constraints on the domestic transportation system.
Assistance is being provided by the ADB for a Road Master Plan feasibility study and the
ADB's project pipeline includes projects for road development. In addition, a prospective
transport project financed by IDA would provide assistance to help Mongolia remove
bottlenecks in road and rail transport.   An action program  to implement the
recommendations of an IDA study on transport tariffs will be drawn up.
40.         Communications. Weak communication links hamper Mongolia's efforts
to expand commercial and other contacts with the outside world and delay the transmission
of official, commercial, and personal information. To improve the institutional capacity
of the Mongolian Telecommunication Authority (MTA), postal, telecommunication, and
broadcasting transmission services have been separated, leaving the MTA as a policy
making body. The Government is implementing some projects for the development of a
modem telecommunications network. A medium-term strategy for the further development
of the communications sector is being drawn up with ADB technical assistance as a basis
for seeking further external financial assistance.
Implementation
41.         We are aware that in the course of implementing the structural adjustment
program, there will be a need for close coordination between all agencies involved with
economic and financial matters, in particular the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of
Mongolia, the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and the National Development Board. To



- 41 -                         ANNEX B
facilitate this coordination, the Government will establish an interagency committee. The
implementation capacity of the economic agencies is being supported through the placement
of long-term advisors from various international agencies and TA programs, including the
IMF, UNDP and IDA.
Mr. D. Davaasambau
Minister of Finance



- 42 -                         ANNEX C
PROJECT IMPORT COMPONENTS
COPPER REHABILITATION COMPONENT
1. Equipment - Critical Needs
(a) 5 x 110 T Dump Trucks                                     $1,800,000
(b) Front End Loaders 1 x 8 cubic meter
- 1 x 5 cubic meter                                          $650,000
(c) Bulldozers 4-250 HP minimum                               $1,700,000
Subtotal                                                       $4. 150,000
2. Operations Assistance Program
(a) Copper Grade Improvement
International Laboratory Test Program
(including supervision assistance)                         $250,000
(b) Development of Cost/Financial Accounting
and MIS                                                    $500,000
(c) Environmental Protection
Review of Pollution and Dam Stability
Recommendations for Action Plan                            $100,000
Subtotal                                                        $850.000
Total                                                          $5  
Note:   All items in the Operations Assistance Program are coordinated with the study
being carried out by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).



-43-                          ANNEX C
COAL MINE REHABILTrATION COMPONENT
1. Equipment - Spare Parts
Motor graders, front-end loaders, rubber tire dozers          $2,600,000
Explosive trucks, tire trucks                                   $500,000
Excavators, dump truck and bulldozer spare parts                $900,000
2. Technical Assistance
Coal Pricing Study                                              $100,000
Mine Management Operation Assistance                            $900,000
Total                                                        $5Q000.000
MONGOLIA RAILWAYS Lg
Credit Component
Rail Track Accessories                                           $1,000,000
Spare Parts for Locomotives                                      $1,450,000
Spare Parts for Freight Wagons                                     $880,000
Overhaul of Locomotives                                          $1,550,000
Overhaul of Wheel Sets                                             $120,000
Total                                                        $5 000 000
/a Other, less urgent import requirements are being identified as part of the proposed IDA
Transport Credit under preparation.



- 44 -                        ANNEX C
PETROLEUM IMPORT CONCERN (PIC)
Credit Component
Lubricants for high speed machinery                             $2,000,000
Gasoline/diesel pumps                                           $1,000,000
Total                                                        $3.000.000



- 45 -                                   ANNEX D
STOCK, IMPORT AND CONSUMPTION OF LUBRICANTS
(thousand tons)
1990                     1991                         1992
Initial  Imports  Con-    Initial  Imports  Con-     Initial  Imports  Con-
stock           sump-    stock             sump-    stock              sump-
tion                      tion                        tion
Diesel              5.35      10.0    8.85      6.5       1.15    5.9      1.75      4.5      4.8
Engine Oils          .95      2.5    2.0        1.45      .4       1.3      .55      2.9      2.0
High speed          .95      2.5    2.0        1.45      .4      1.3       .55      2.9      2.0
Other              4.4       7.5    6.85      5.05       .75     4.6      1.2       1.6      2.8
Gasoline            8.2       5.8    7.4        6.6       1.45     .6      2.05       .9      2.0
Gear Oils            .6       1.6    1.6        .6        .6       .4       .8       0.0       .4
Industrial            .4       1.4    1.5       .3        .1       .3       .1       1.5       .5
Compressor           .1        .1      .1       .1        -         .1      -         .4       .2
Transformer          .3        .6      .4        .5       -         .5      -        1.3       .5
Hydraulic           1.2       1.4    1.6        1.0       0.0      .8       .2       1.0       .5
Autos                .7        .3      .4       .6        -         .3      .3       -         .3
Grease               .4       1.0      .6       .8        .4       .5       .7        .7      .3
Other                .55        .5     .55      .5        -         .3      .2        .9       .46
Total           17.8      22.7   23.0      17.5       3.7    15.1       6.1      11.2      9.96



- 46 -                                ANNEX D
CONSUMPTION AND WASTE AT PUMPING STATIONS,
1990-92
Quantity
of                                     Consumption of gasoline
existing                                    and diesel oil (m')   Waste
Petroleum depots      pumps          Names of stations       1990      1991     1992    1992
4            Baidrag              1,443.7  1,251.7    833.9      9.17
1. BAYANHONGOR         *4            Gas Station 1         7,997.7  6,481.3  5,024.0    52.75
4            Buutsagaan           2,244.9  2,342.2    932.6    10.26
4            Bayantsagaan         1,215.7    976.7    432.4      4.45
*5           Gas Station 1         6,923.1  5,545.2  4,125.0    43.73
2. GOBI-ALTAY           4            Guulin                1,603.6  1,281.6    530.9     4.99
4            Biger                1,207.9    543.5    345.6      3.53
6            Gas Station 1        4,754.7  6,139.8  2,337.6    24.08
3. SUKHBAATAR           4            Tumentsogt            2,146.1    587.2    922.8      9.5
*5           Gas Station 1         6,189.8  5,119.3  4,060.6    44.46
4. UVS                  4            Baruunturuun          3,213.8  2,464.5  1,597.9    16.94
6            Naranbulag           1,627.0  1,065.4    808.4      8.33
3            Tes                  1,399.1  1,042.5    672.1      7.39
4            Tsagaankhairkhan       899.2    638.0    349.6      7.39
4            Darvi                1,286.2  1,116.7    489.6      5.19
5. HOVD                 4            Uench                   805.2    642.0    429.7     4.38
;            Bulgan               1,593.7  1,673.7    735.9      7.14
*3           Gas Station 1         6,932.5  5,682.5  3,547.7    38.67
4            Khurkh               1,270.1  1,327.8  1,134.7    11.01
6. HENTII              *4            Berkh                11,134.9  9,321.0  4,433.2    47.44
*6           Gas Station 1         5,782.0  5,114.9  6,928.2    69.97
4           Sumber                3,565.2  3,204.8  2,026.7    19.86
7. DORNOD               5            Bayanuul              1,634.3  1,021.0    619.8     6.51
4            Central Gas 1        5,940.5  9,098.6  1,991.4    21.71
4            Tarialan             2,639.1  2,286.0  1,827.6      20.1
8. KHUVSGEL             4            Ikh-Uul               2,168.5  1,623.4  1,183.5    11.95
4           Khatgal               4,329.2  1,557.8    629.9      6.05
4           Tsagaan-Uul           2,365.7  1,917.9  1,390.7    13.63
*5           Gas Station 1         2,530.1  5,539.6  4,154.9     42.8
5            Gas Station 1        4,652.4  3,560.3  2,422.4    25.44
9. DORNOGOBI            4            Dzuunbayan             744.6    895.9    765.8      7.05
4            Kharkhorin           4,402.1  2,726.5  1,774.6    18.81
*6           Gas Station 1         8,970.5  6,800.5  5,377.3    58.07
10. UVURKHANGAI         4            Narun Teel            1,308.6  1,019.4    732.3      7.1
4            Bayanteeg            1,779.0  1,268.1    991.1     9.22
4            Khujirt              1,345.0    920.0    510.6     5.36
.. .cont'd



- 47 -                               ANNEX D
Quantity
of                                    Consumption of gasoline
existing                                   and diesel oil (m3)   Waste
Petroleum depots     pumps          Names of stations       1990     1991     1992    1992
4           Gas Station 1        4,247.0  3,223.9  1,840.7    22.09
11. TUV                4            Lun                  2,941.7  2,568.8  2,386.7    21.96
*4           Erdenesant           4,792.1  3,677.1  2,801.0    26.05
4           Jargalant            2,474.0  1,524.6  1,759.4    17.24
*4           Gas Station 1        6,091.4  4,771.6  4,981.4    55.79
*5           Gas Station 2        8,879.8  7,590.1  5,427.3     34.6
*4           Gas Station 3        4,526.3  4,851.1  3,872.8    35.63
12. ULAANBAATAR        *5           Gas Station 4        5,196.3  5,854.7  4,466.4     51.2
*5           Gas Station 6        6,872.6  5,620.3  4,707.0    35.41
*5           Gas Station 7        7,809.3  7,564.2  4,551.6    41.87
*3           Gas Station 9        7,076.1  6,906.6  5,664.2    35.09
*4           Gas Station 10       6,471.7  5,981.2  4,797.3    44.14
4           Tes                  2,109.9  1,745.4  1,020.6    11.23
4           Sogoot                1,168.7    878.1    854.3    8.63
13. ZAVHAN             *6           Gas Station 1        7,487.4  5,592.5  3,913.1    39.91
4           Asgat                 1,110.6    908.5    657.1    6.05
5           Tosontsengel         5,063.8  2,620.3  1,785.5    16.43
4           Tolbo                  585.8    313.9    286.5     3.04
14. TSAGAANHUUR        4            Bayannuur              862.2   432.3    300.6    2.95
*5           Ulgii                1,172.3    733.6  4,903.7    33.21
4           Nogoonnuur             938.1    531.6    512.6     5.38
4           Altanbulag           1,376.1    914.7    894.3     9.75
15. SELENGE            4            Nairamdal            1,700.4  1,506.5  1,575.1    16.22
4           Burgaltai             1,910.8  1,412.6  1,248.8    12.86
4           Bugant               2,085.0  2,032.9  1,211.6    12.72
6           Gas Station 1        3,973.6  3,712.2  2,606.2    28.41
4           Orkhon                1,207.4  1,081.4  1,121.4    10.77
5           Number 1             2,897.2  2,510.6   1716.6    18.02
16. ERDENET            4            Number 2             2,131.9  1,845.5   1495.0     16.3
*5           Number 1             3,169.8  3,422.0   3238.2    29.21
17. DARHAN             *5           Number 2             3,587.8  3,678.7   2682.2    27.63
*4           Sharyngol            3,008.0  3,240.7   3172.5    33.63
5           Tunkhel              2,646.4  1,919.0   1466.5    15.54
18. BARUNHARAA         3            Baruunkharraa        3,573.5  2,726.7   1535.9    15.67
4           Dzuunkharaa            962.4    656.1    368.1     3.61
Total              *96                                242.153  208.347  152.893    1.498
Average volume for 71 stations                                            2.136
Note: * = to be replaced.
Source: Petroleum Import Concern.



- 48 -                         ANNEX E
MINISTRY OF FUEL AND ENERGY
ENERGY/COAL PRICING STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.          The Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE) has responsibility in Mongolia for
the generation of power and for the development of coal mine operations to provide fuel
for the power plants of Ulaanbaatar, and in the cities of Darhan, Dornod and Erdenet, as
well as for general industry, agriculture and regional domestic (heating and hot water)
systems.  The coal-fired power plants feed the Central Electricity System  which
interconnects the above cities. There are no known alternative fuel sources in Mongolia
to compete with coal as a primary energy source.
2.          In 1989, coal production reached over 8 million tons, approximately
60 percent of which was consumed in the country's power plants. Some 70 percent of coal
supply is from the fully mechanized coal mines at Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol which have
design capacities of 4.0 and 1.5 million tons coal per year, respectively. Coal rank is
typically low, ranging from high ash, sub-bituminous coal down to high moisture lignite.
Coal production has declined in the 1990's due to difficulties in the public investment
program and to the shortage of equipment, spare parts and consumables, following the
cessation of economic and technical aid form the former Soviet Union.
3.          Present coal pricing is administered by MFE and is designed to cover cash
operating costs. Full production costs are not defined to international standards. Concepts
of coal mines' financial viability, return on assets, and profit retention for future
replacement and investment, are yet to be fully introduced by MFE. At the present
exchange rate of 400 Tugrik per dollar, administered prices are extremely low [up to $3
per ton coal, FOR (free on rail or minehead) mine] by any international and developing
country standards, and on the basis that MFE (government) retains responsibility for
financing replacement and new investment costs, are heavily subsidized. (An exception
is the supply of coal to the Mongolia-Soviet Union joint venture Erdenet Copper
Corporation, where pricing is at a higher level, presumably on the basis of an ability, or
willingness, to pay). Under the present coal pricing system, there is no incentive for the
coal mines to be efficient, or to maintain a reliable source of fuel for the power, industry,
and domestic sectors.



-49 -                          ANNEXE
4.          Although coal quality in Mongolia would not be considered tradeable by
international standards, it has been exported to the former Soviet Union, albeit in small and
irregular annual quantities. In addition, coal has been imported from the Soviet Union,
again in small and irregular quantities. In this sense, domestic coal production can be
considered as a potential replacement for imported coal. This trade has been conducted
at border prices of the order of $25 per ton coal. Long run marginal cost and average
incremental costs of production calculations are not well developed. However, indications
from a USAID-financed prefeasibility study are that the cost of development of the next
larger scale coal operation (Shivee Ovoo) would be less than border prices, but above
present prices.
5.          It is appreciated by MFE that the coal sector in Mongolia needs to be
restructured; that coal mines' management needs to be provided with autonomy to operate
and manage (including ultimately, autonomy for future investments), and that price reform
is essential for the coal industry to meet the demand for coal in an efficient manner. In
addition, it is recognized that coal pricing must be considered in relation to a rational
overall energy pricing policy. MFE appreciates that subsidies in both the coal and power
subsectors have bred inefficiencies and that energy and coal pricing mechanisms that
foresee the transfer of government subsidy to consumers, may provide an appropriate
mechanism to enhance subsector efficiencies.
6.          Under IDA's Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2321-MOG) two reports
relevant to the coal sector have been produced; one by Grosvenor Engineering, Denver,
USA, (an engineering review of the coal industry), and one by Arthur Anderson, Hong
Kong (a management and organization review of the industry). These reports will be made
available for reference purposes.
Scope of Services
7.          As Mongolia continues to develop towards a market economy, a rational and
economically efficient coal pricing policy needs to formulated. Due to the economical
stress that Mongolia is experiencing, a progressive increase in coal pricing may be
appropriate. A range of coal pricing options (cost plus minimum return on investment,
export parity, import parity, long-run marginal cost), and the conditions under which free
market pricing can be introduced effectively (efficient market with several coal suppliers
and consumers), should be outlined. The characteristics of the Mongolian coal industry
(market structure, costs, prices, and present and future demand) should be reviewed. The
consultant should recommend a pricing approach, and specific mechanisms to increase coal
prices. The pricing approach should be designed to provide incentives for coal mines to
be efficient and to be a reliable source of fuel for the energy sector.
8.          Specifically, a thorough review of existing coal mine production costs and
of coal quality needs to be undertaken. In this respect, a thorough analysis of cost centers
(particularly social elements including schools, hospitals and other social services), and of
depreciation allowances, needs to be made. The calculation of the costs of spare parts and
consumables, and the currencies in which some of these transactions are undertaken, needs



-50-                           ANNEX E
careful evaluation. The taxation environment in which coal mines operate should be
reviewed. Comparison of FOR (free-on-rail, or minehead) mine production costs with
those in other selected developing countries, with adjustments for quality variation, should
be undertaken. Concepts of least cost development in the coal sector need to be outlined.
Plans have been formulated to expand the production at Baga Nuur and to develop (what
can essentially be classified as) a new mine operation (Shivee Ovoo) have been the subject
of preliminary prefeasibility considerations.
9.          The opportunity cost of coal in Mongolia, as set by domestic demand and
supply, should be determined. Average incremental costs of coal production and long run
marginal costs should be evaluated. Appropriate profit components (in terms of return on
capital, for example) will be identified to facilitate the generation of coal company funds
for future investment in the coal industry. Concepts of resource rent should be considered.
(With the substantial coal reserves identified in Mongolia, concepts of resource rent might
be theoretically valid but quantitatively an insignificant component of economically efficient
coal pricing). Pricing mechanisms for coal quality adjustments will be developed. (It can
be assumed that a single coal price for different quality Mongolian coals, even though
perhaps within the specifications of power plant boilers and other users, would fail to meet
economic efficiency criteria). The coal industry does not meet international criteria for
environmental control and rehabilitation. Appropriate environmental allowances should
outlined so that coal pricing mechanisms reflect environmental protection that should
become an integral part of coal mine operating costs. MFE have forecasted the increased
in demand for coal over the next 5-10 year period. Investments needed for appropriate
coal industry expansion, and development of new mines, to meet this demand should be
considered.
10.         The impact of the proposed coal price increases on power tariffs should be
reviewed. Preliminary analysis of government (direct and indirect) subsidies in the power
sector, and to consumers, will be undertaken and general conclusions made to guide
government thinking on overall energy (power) pricing and on the fundamental question
of whether energy subsidies would be better passed directly to consumers.
11.         The consultant findings, analysis and recommendations will be consolidated
in a final report. The report will include an implementation plan with appropriate phasing.
The respective roles of central economic ministries, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and
coal companies, should be specified, and any legislative and/or regulatory changes needed
should be identified.



- 51 -                         ANNEX E
MNISTRY OF FuEL AND ENERGY
COAL SECrOR-OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.          Under the Mongolia Economic Transition Support Project, a project
component is planned to provide operations assistance to the key Baga Nuur and Sharyn
Gol coal mines. This component will include funds for the provision of planning,
operations and maintenance support in relation to which, these terms of reference apply.
2.          Coal production in Mongolia has long traditions, starting in the early 20th
century. Approximately 70 percent of coal production in Mongolia now is from two open-
pit mines-Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol-with design capacities of 4.0 and 1.5 million tons
per year, respectively. The mines are fully mechanized being equipped with predominantly
Russian technology, encompassing draglines, truck-shovel combinations and auxiliary
equipment.  However, mine management practices have their roots in Soviet-style
command principles, and mine planning, operations and maintenance practices have
considerable potential for improvement.
3.          Coal production peaked in 1989, reaching in excess of 8.0 million tons.
Production has since declined progressively, reaching about 6.0 million tons in 1992.
Although the international donor community has financed various packages of mine
equipment, spare parts and consumables in the coal sector, this has not had, to date, an
impact on the recovery of former coal production levels.
4.          These terms of reference relate to the provision of operations assistance to
develop coal mine management systems and practices to international standards. The
objective of the technical assistance is to compliment ongoing donor-financed equipment,
spares and consumables, contributing to an increase in coal production, thus providing
better security to coal supply to coal fired power plants, industry and domestic consumers.
The technical assistance is designed to compliment the procurement and installation support
services being provided by Morrison Knudsen, under contract to the U.S. Agency for
International Development.



- 52 -                          ANNEX E
Scope of Services
5.          Experts will be provided to work alongside Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol mine
management staff to provide planning, operations and maintenance support. Current work
practices will be reviewed., including open-pit planning, overburden dumping, excavation
and haulage systems and operations, equipment productivity, blasting procedures,
maintenance practices (workshops, warehousing and general materials management
systems), general in-pit housekeeping, and labor provisions, shift patterns and labor
productivity levels, Recommendations will be made to improve existing practices and
equipment/labor productivity in order to raise the level of mine efficiency to international
standards, to reduce mine production costs, and to raise the level of coal production.
6.          Operations.  It is anticipated that an experienced mine manager, with
extensive operations experience, will be assigned, one to the Baga Nuur mine and one to
the Sharyn Gol mine, for a period of 9-12 months. The function and responsibility of each
designated manager will be to review current practices, identify areas for improvement,
and to assist existing mines' management to implement efficiency increase measures.
Although it is anticipated that leave will be appropriate for major national holiday at home
base, the assignments should otherwise be considered as full-time, at mine-site basis. The
designated managers will be assisted by shorter-term specialists as considered appropriate.
Present indications are that the following experts will be required.
7.          Maintenance. Particular attention will be paid to existing maintenance
procedures and it is anticipated that a maintenance specialist will support the Baga Nuur
and Sharyn Gol managers over a period of the order of 6 man-months. A review will be
made of the adequacy and needs of existing workshops to perform routine and preventative
maintenance, and repair works. Workshop equipment, work practices and scheduling will
be reviewed. Warehouse facilities will be reviewed and materials management systems
evaluated. Assistance will be provided to upgrade, as necessary, workshop and warehouse
procedures.
8.          Mine Planning. It is accepted by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and by
both Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol mines' management, that the existing rail haulage
overburden removal systems need to be replaced, in the short to medium term, by
traditional truck-shovel combinations, not only to increase mining flexibility, but also to
facilitate in-pit overburden dumping and minimization of mine production costs. A mine
planning expert will be provided to undertake a preliminary evaluation of mine design to
accommodate this goal. The pit planning evaluation should identify appropriate changes
necessary to pit profiles (bench layout and dimensions) to accommodate mobile equipment.
An evaluations should be made of the options and benefits of increasing the sizing of
present 4 m3 shovels and 40 t trucks, at least up to a 0-10 m3 shovel and 85-110 t truck
configuration. Preliminary estimates of overburden removal (and in-pit dumping options)
and coal release potential, and of capital and operating costs associated with the revised
mine plan will be evaluated. It is anticipated that the planning expert will review the mine
planning options at Baga LNuur and Sharyn Gol over a period of 3-4 months.



- 53 -                          ANNEX E
9.          Mine Dewatering.  The open-pit coal operation and particularly in-pit
overburden dumping options at Sharyn Gol are hampered by existing dewatering measures.
This position will be reviewed by a hydrogeological expert over a 2-3 month period and
options will be examined and recommendations made to upgrade dewatering practices to
facilitate coal production and in-pit overburden dumping in order to better secure coal
production and to reduce production costs.
10.         Coal Handling. Currently, increasing quantities of coal are bypassing coal
handling systems with the result that extensive quantities of shale and coal partings are not
being removed from coal railed to Ulaanbaatar power plants. A coal handling specialist
will be assigned for a period of 2-3 months to review the Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal
handling facilities. Recommendations will be formulated to upgrade the coal handling
facilities including a listing of equipment and spare parts items needed to rehabilitate the
plants, and their respective capital costs.
11.         Environmental Management. Coal mines in Mongolia have not taken any
specific steps to safeguard the environment, beyond simple recontouring of dump material.
An environmental specialist will be assigned for a period of 1-2 months to assist coal
mines' management to prepare guidelines and action plans in relation to international
standards. Such guidelines/action plans will include regrading excavation and dump areas,
and reseeding; monitoring and controlling air and water quality with particular focus on
water discharge and acid mine drainage; and treatment of waste products from the mine
town site.
Reporting
12.         Within one month of start-up of the operation assistance, an inception report
will be prepared indicating any changes foreseen in the timing and scheduling of expert
services and in the cost of the provision of experts. Thereafter, a monthly report will be
submitted, identifying operations analysis undertaken, recommendations made, actions
initiated and impact on coal mines' management practices and overburden and coal
excavation levels and potential. Each report will encompass the inputs of the designated
expert managers at both Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol and will include the input of other
specialist experts (mine planning, hydrogeologist, coal handling etc.). At the conclusion
of the assignment, a final report will be prepared. This will detail the full findings of the
operations, maintenance and technical specialists.  A full analysis will be presented
regarding the industry status and improvements in planning, operations and maintenance
accomplished through the technical assistance. Recommendations for requirements in
terms of further investments, further operations assistance and overall training needs will
be formulated and presented.



-54 -                          ANNEX E
MINIsTRY OF GEOLOGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
ERDENET COPPER CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL METALLuRGIcAL TESTING PROGRAM
AND ANALYSIS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.          Under the Mongolia Economic Transition Support Project, a project
component is planned to provide critical (technical, financial, environmental and
marketing) support to the Erdenet Copper Corporation. The technical component, which
is covered under these terms of reference, will include funds for assistance to the Erdenet
Copper Corporation to prepare a scope of work and bidding document for an international
metallurgical laboratory testing program, to assist in the analysis of bids received from
international laboratories, to supervise the international testing, and to advise on the results
of the test program.
2.          Copper Concentrates Production. The Erdenet copper complex dominates
the mining sector in Mongolia, having generated some $200 million per year foreign
exchange earnings and accounted for approximately 60 percent of export earnings and
15 percent of GDP. The operation was developed in 1978 as a 51/49 percent joint venture
between the governments of Mongolia and the former Soviet Union (now the Russian
Federation) respectively. The mine/concentrator has been in full operation for 10 years,
the open-pit mine producing 20 million tons per year copper porphyry ore (0.75-0.80
percent copper) and concentrating facilities producing 340-350,000 tons copper
concentrates (30-35 percent copper). In 1991, copper concentrate production fell to
275,000 tons due to serious power supply shortages at Erdenet and due to difficulties in
equipment/spares/ consumables procurement following cessation of technical/economic aid
from the former Soviet Union. Concentrate production in 1992 increased to over 300,000
tons and annual concentrate output seems likely now to restabilize at former levels.
3.          Concentrate grades have declined progressively from a start-up level of 35
percent copper to 29 percent in 1992 and, under the present plant arrangement (without
modification to equipment or flotation reagents etc.) is forecast to deteriorate further down
to 21 percent in the next 5-10 years. It appears that changes in the metallurgy of the ore,
particularly the increase in insolubles or the increased difficulty to depress the insolubles,
has lead to the concentrate grade deterioration.



- 55 -                           ANNEX E
4.           Previous Study Work.  Under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 2321-MOG), consultants were retained, inter alia, to review the present and
potential mineral operations in Mongolia. Mineral Evaluation Network, USA, undertook
this study which is available upon request.
Scope of Services
5.           The work program will be undertaken in four distinct phases as follows:
*     Phase 1. The consultant will visit the Ministry of Geology and Natural
Resources in Ulaanbaatar and the Erdenet Corporation and undertake a
technical audit of the copper concentration operation. The need and benefit
of undertaking an international metallurgical research testing program will
be discussed and agreed. During the initial visit, the consultant will assist
the Erdenet Corporation to prepare and issue a bidding document for
international laboratories to submit technical and commercial offers to test
the Erdenet ore, with the objective to optimize the copper concentrate grade
and recover,". The consultant will provide Erdenet management with full
specifications for the selection of ore samples (typical for present and future
ore) preparation (size, number etc.) and shipment.
Note. Bids for testing should be solicited from at least three companies
form three separate countries. The cost of the international testing program
will be financed separately under the Credit. Erdenet Corporation will
finance the cost of sample preparation and shipment.
*     Phase II. The consultant will make period visits to the laboratory to review
the work program being undertaken and to ensure that it is addressing
Erdenet metallurgical issues and is in accordance with bid document
requirements. The consultant will ensure that the laboratory, on conclusion
of the test program, provides a detailed report indicating specifically what
changes have to be made in the process flowsheet both with respect to
equipment and reagents to achieve the optimization.  In addition, the
consultant will prepare a report to evaluate the economics of the proposed
changes, including an estimate of capital costs involved.
*     Phase III. The consultant will visit Erdenet to discuss the report and its
recommendations and to assist Erdenet management to formulate an Action
Plan to implement the report recommendations.
*     Phase IV. At an appropriate time, the consultant will return to Erdenet to
review the implementation of the Action Plan and ascertain the success of
implementation of the recommendations and will make further
recommendations regarding depression of insolubles and increasing copper
concentrate grades, as are appropriate.



- 56 -                          ANNEX E
MINISTRY OF GEOLOGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
ERDENET COPPER CORPORATION
COST AND FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM AND
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS UPGRADING
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.          Under the Mongolia Economic Transition Support Project, a project
component is planned to provide critical (technical, financial, and environmental) support
to the Erdenet Copper Corporation. The financial component, which is covered under
these terms of reference, will include funds for assistance to the Erdenet Copper
Corporation to upgrade the company's cost and financial accounting, and management
information, systems.
Erdenet Copper Corporation
2.          The Erdenet Copper complex dominates the mining sector in Mongolia,
generating some $200 million per year foreign exchange earnings and accounting for some
60 percent of export earnings and 15 percent of GDP. The operation was developed in
1978 as a 51/49 percent joint venture between the governments of Mongolia and the
former Soviet Union (now the Russian Federation), respectively.  The mine and
concentrator operation have been in full production now for 10 years, producing some 340-
350,000 tons copper concentrate per year, with molybdenum concentrates as a minor
by-product. In 1991, copper concentrate production fell some 20 percent, due reportedly
to power supply deficiencies and shortages of equipment, spare parts and consumables
which are supplied from the former Soviet Union. Production recovered somewhat in
1992 and is considered likely to stabilize now at former levels.
3.          The accounting systems at Erdenet were developed by Soviet specialists and
do not follow western-style principles or formats. As a result, income statements do not
permit clear identification of net income, cash flows and profitability. The balance sheet
will need, therefore, to be restructured and also, due to the methodology of historical
valuation of both assets and liabilities. The quantification of liabilities is complicated, and
the operating costs understated, by the original joint venture investment plan that enabled
the Mongolian joint venture partner to contribute its share of initial capital by way of



-57 -                            ANNEX E
annual and ongoing provision of services (power, water and other domestic facilities) to
the Corporation, at no cost. This is thus reflected as a capital contribution and not as an
operating expense in the books of the Corporation. The status of debt repayment is
understood to be currently about 50 percent, but is not clearly addressed in either the
income statement or in the balance sheet.  The treatment of the convertible rouble
exchange rate conversion in this respect, as well as in other costs (imports), and the
reconciliation of multiple currency imports, needs careful review, analysis, and
reconciliation.
Scope of Services
4.           The cost and financial accounting systems, and management information
systems, will be reviewed with the Ministry of Geology and Natural Resources and the
Copper Corporation management in Ulaanbaatar, and at Erdenet. Assistance will be
provided to undertake a comprehensive analysis of capital and operating costs and to
upgrade the cost, financial and management systems, with an end product of revision of
the Erdenet 1992 financial statements (income statement, balance sheet and sources and
applications of funds). Erdenet financial and accounting personnel should be trained in the
preparation of financial statements to international standards, and able to manipulate
models developed during the assignment, for future years financial statements.
5.           The review of operating cost systems will focus on:
*     costing systems, cost centers, responsibility costing, and code of accounts
and structure
*     reporting of costs by process, element and responsibility
*     salaries and wages systems
*     supply, measurement and costing of services and utilities (with particular
attention on goods and services hitherto provided at no cost to the
Corporation)
*     stores purchasing system relating to procedures and prices on both stock and
nonstock items
*     stores requisition, control and cost allocations
6.           The Capital Costs and Investments review will focus on:
*     authorization procedures, levels of authority and capital payments systems
*     recording of acquisitions, disposals, maintLnance of asset register, asset
valuation and depreciation schedules
7.           The review of Financial Accou nting Sy stents aind M1anagenment of Currcnt
Assets will focus on:
*     creditor's control, ageing and pay'cnl.
*     revenue receipts, control and currenc\, v ( n ersion procedures
*     financial charges



- 58 -                          ANNEX E
*     revaluation of assets, liabilities and  accounting for nonrecurring and
extraordinary items
*     accounting policies and the preparation of monthly and annual (audited)
financial statements
*     accounting for work in progress, stores and product stocks
*     annual auditing procedures
8.          The review of Management Accounts will focus on the design of existing
management information systems and their adequacy with regard to unit process costs,
plant efficiencies and performance parameters, and budgetary control. Recommendations
for a revised and comprehensive MIS should be formulated.   The degree of automation
and computerization of the cost and financial, and management information, systems will
be reviewed and specific options outlined, and recommendations made, for system
upgrading.
9.          To the extent that the cost, financial and management systems and/or policies
are not adequate or appropriate, recommendations should be made for:
*     improvements to individual systems
*     implementation of new off-the-shelf systems, both manual and computer,
where necessary
*     procedural changes to data capture, cost control, recording and reporting
*     control procedures and audit requirements
10.         A review should be undertaken of cost and financial accounting personnel
experience and qualifications and specific recommendations for (a) strengthening Cost and
financial Departments and (b) further training of these personnel, should be made.
11.         As an end-product to the assignment, the Erdenet Corporation's 1992
financial statements should be recast to conform with internationally accepted cost and
accounting standards.  These statements should be presented in a final report which
outlines the full findings of the evaluation of the cost, financial and management systems,
and recommendations made.



- 59 -                         ANNEX E
MINISTRY OF GEOLOGY AND NATuRAL RESOURCES
ERDENET CoPPER CoRPoRATIoN
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.          Under the Mongolia Economic Transition Project, scheduled for Bank
financing, a project component is planned to provide critical (technical, financial,
environmental and marketing) support to the Erdenet Copper Corporation. This component
will include funds for the development of an environmental management plan (and Action
Plans to address environmental issues at Erdenet), in relation to which, these terms of
reference apply.
2.          The Erdenet copper complex (mine, concentrator and related facilities) was
developed in 1978 and has been in full operation now for 10 years, producing some 340-
350,000 tons copper concentrates (35 percent copper), with molybdenum concentrates as
a minor by-product. The mine is a traditional drill, blast truck-shovel operation and the
concentrator operation encompasses crushing, grinding, flotation and drying. Tailings are
discharged into a large lagoon where the tailings beaches are constrained by a dam.
3.          Under the Bank's Technical Assistance Project, Enviroplan of Ireland
prepared a report on the environmental compliance, problems and remedial actions of the
minerals sector, generally, in Mongolia. Sections of the report relevant to the Erdenet
operation are attached at Annex 1 for reference.
Scope of Services
4.          The consultant(s) will visit Mongolia and meet with representatives of the
Ministry of Geology and Natural Resources in Ulaanbaatar and visit the Copper
Corporation management at Erdenet.  A technical and environmental audit of the
operations and associated environmental degradation, including, inter alia, air, water
(discharge) and noise pollution at the mine site, water discharge from the concentrator,
tailings decant, and air pollution resulting from airborne tailings pond beach dust will be
undertaken.  Specific Action Plans should be developed to minimize environmental
degradation, within international limits. Drinking water monitoring practices will also be
reviewed.



- 60 -                          ANNEX E
5.          Meetings will be held with Ministry of the Environment and other
institutions (Institute of Geoecology; Faculty of Biology, University of Ulaanbaatar) to
identify present methods of monitoring and controlling environmental degradation at
Erdenet. Facilities and practices undertaken by the Copper Corporation to monitor and
control pollution will be reviewed, including a review of the Erdenet laboratory facilities
to investigate environmental issues. Specific recommendations, as appropriate, to upgrade
the monitoring and control procedures will be formulated.
6.          Of particular concern is the pollution from substantial tailings beaches which
vary from 90 to 190 ha, winter to summer, respectively. With the prevalence of high
winds, substantial tailings particles are lifted from the beaches and deposited on
surrounding residential, industrial and agricultural areas. Freeze drying is considered
likely to release further particles from frozen saturated beaches through the ongoing
sublimation of interstitial ice. The degree of health impact (human and animal) and actual
property damage (for example, to grazing areas) and nuisance needs to be ascertained. (It
is reported that tailings material carried has affected adversely livestock health and
productivity. There is also some evidence of human health impacts relating to tailings
deposition).
7.          A specific Action Plan should be developed to assist Erdenet management
to evaluate this aspect of environmental degradation, including definition of a program to
monitor and control such tailings dust. A tailings handling and management Action Plan
should be developed based on a review of all practical methods of controlling fugitive
tailings dust. An epidemiological study should be developed and initiated to survey
individual and synergistic impacts on human health. The framework of an investigation
of the naturally occurring elements (based on a broad spectrum scan of tailings material)
in an analogous area should be developed and initiated for comparison with actual levels
in the alleged animal affected areas.  Assistance should be provided to Erdenet
management to develop a data base of preexisting soil and vegetation chemistry and stock
condition (metabolic profile, parasite burden, breeding pattern and productivity)
8.          The permeation of tailings pond leachates into groundwater systems should
also be evaluated and a ground water quality monitoring program designed and
implemented. To the extent that drilling is required or advisable to identify the nature or
extent of such permeation, this should be specified.  Opportunities and benefits of
introducing lining(s) to contain tailings pond leachates should be outlined. An overall
water management program should be developed to ensure effective (zero effluent
discharge during dry and wet seasons) utilization of process, surface and make-up water
resources. The extent of effluent discharge treatment, particularly during the wet season,
should be reviewed. The extent of dilution should be ascertained and recommendations
made regarding its adequacy. Present arrangements for domestic waste disposal and
treatment, and its utilization for irrigation, should be reviewed and recommendations made
for any improvements that are needed.
9.          Concern has been raised about the geotechnical configuration and stability
of the tailings pond dam at Erdenet, which is located in a recognized seismic area. The



-61-                            ANNEX E
dam presently stands at a height of 60 meters and it is planned to raise the structure a
further 42 meters in height. The extent to which seismic influence was integrated into the
original dam design will be subject to technical and geotechnical audit. Concern has also
been expressed about the effect of thermo-mechanical (freezing) action on the integrity of
the dam. While the dam is not directly upstream of the erdenet city, any dam failure
would impact local residents, stock breeders and livestock, and grazing areas. Details
regarding the original design and construction of the dam should be thoroughly reviewed,
and if considered appropriate, recommendations should be formulated and agreed with
Erdenet management, to physically drill test geotechnically the dam area. The geotechnical
audit of the dam should include a stability and risk analysis assessment. To the extent
necessary, recommendations for further physical geotechnical investigation should be made.
10.         The largest overall problem at Erdenet is considered to be the mine site and
tailing pond rehabilitation. Rehabilitation, to the extent practiced at Erdenet, is limited to
simple grading. Neither fertilization nor seeding is practiced. Areas of derelict land
should be quantified and specifications for rehabilitation developed in accordance with
international standards. Contaminant trigger and action concentrations should be specified.
An Action Plan should be developed to ascertain the extent to which Erdenet tailings areas
can be rehabilitated to an ecological stable end point vegetation system. Particular focus
should be maintained on whether progressive rehabilitation of the tailings pond area is
feasible.






IBRD 22982
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
r4-                     MORON                                /    RUSSIA    DERATION
A'    OLOvY  -'AN                                                      -                    DRI<SLENG
-va sft4oC         ,' -(  401  I
CHINA - GOW-ALTAYtt < f OVORHANGA>ru    N    Ne,_   _   t   ,  C
-7                      BAYA-HONGOR UL.IASTAY.                                           >c  =,,,                        MONGOLIA
1                                 .~~- ~.  7   -O                              C       P      .        -                   -DZRARUUHoURT
KI~~~~~~~~-  LOMTAT                       0-k50      1     15 0    FONGV  
NGAY                                           HENT (  VORHANA
7E _ _ _ __ o n_ _t . _ .^BAYRWANHERONG,TRCSOR   SRAILS                                             -                                          MONGO80UNARIE
OQRNQGOVI-DRNO                          T
* AIAO APTASOHBAIAIELD
CHINA~~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        NAIOALCANA                        4INERATONL IROR
GOV_ALTAY                              OVOA ALL.WEATHER HARD OR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS    -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AAsr 1W9G



