Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16600
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(2551-MOG)
Mav 22. 1997
Country Operations Division
China and Mongolia Departnmenit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  EQV LI'IN'ALI.F.N'I'S
Currenc% t 'iiit    'ILwr,  (1 JLi-,
May 1993 $1.(() I     l0    T    4')() (ullitied  'ree market cxc[ihange rate)
April 1994 S1.0(0       I Li, ,O8
April 1995 S1.00        I Le
April 1996  1 .(3       I LI 480)
April 1997 $1  i)       I ire
WFIGIITS ANI) MFASURES
I nmcter (nm)    3 .28 *'   t (!t)
I kilometer (km)             i 02  Bile,
I sqUare kiloimetcr (kim- )     i (!J I
I lectaire (hLi)     2.47  crcs
I toil   I (t)   I00 . k(()ls 
20.) POtin(Is
1 kilogram (kg)    2.2 p mulds
ABBREVIATI(ONS AN) ACRONYMS
ADI3   -        Asian Development hsank
CAS   -         C(oun1tr- Assistance Str,itqeg
ERC   -         Economic Rchabc litatL n  Credit
ESAF  -         I.nhanced SiRnCtLira I A.! jUSti [lid Ii iv
ICB3    -       Interinational (ompciti \c lidclilln
1ID\   -        Internatioinal I )ccl,pn e.nt Assoelatiom
K tW    -       Kreditanstalt 1'fir \\icdccl a-L'ULIt
ME'I'S -        MNon0olia leConomIlic 'I  11otion1 SLIpport Credit
Moll' -         Nlinistr-v otf Finalne
M'I'l   -                      rinistr   tIrade antld I dustrN
NIC    -        Neft (Petroletuimi) I  pi m  ( Coneernl
(U1              OVC I ()VerSCeS I COI iC ( ' p )pCr-aLtin I' Lilid (Japan)
tSAID)-         I IS Agiene\ 1i- I iitrir;t  da! D)ev clopniciat
FISCAIL  ETAR
Janll-lar\ 1 - D).CCCinhc 3 I
Vice lPresident:             NMr. eL'an-NIl clcl Se\erino
Director:                     Mr-. \ichoLis  . I lope
Division Chiet'Mlanager:  NMr. KlauLs kolkl lnd
Staff Member:                 Ms. Natashist lces,horhneir



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................1
A.  Project Objectives ......................................................l
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................2
C.  Implementation  Record  and  Major Factors Affecting  the Project .............................                                       5
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................6
E. IDA Performance ......................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ......................................................7
G.  Assessment of Outcome .......................................................8
H. Future Operation .......................................................8
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................................9
Table  1:    Summary  of Assessments ....................................................... 9
Table  2:    Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ....................                                  .................................. I I
Table  3:    Project Timetable ......................................................                                                   12
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................. 13
Table  5:    Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .......... ........................................ 14
Table  6:    Key  Indicators for Project Operation ......................................................                                14
Table 7:    Studies Included  in the Project ...................................................... 15
Table  8A: Project Costs ....................................................... 15
Table  8B: Project Financing ......................................................                                                     16
Table  9:    Economic  Costs and  Benefits ......................................................                                       17
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants .............................. ........................ 17
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ....................................... 18
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ......................................................                                       18
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ......................................................                                           19
Annex  1: Project Review   from   the Borrower's Perspective .......................................... 20
Annex  2: Aide-Mqmoire  (May  1996) ......................................................                                             26
MAP: IBRD No. 26450
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(255 1-MOG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Transition
Support Credit in Mongolia for which Credit 2551-MOG in the amount of $20
millionJSDR 14.2 million was approved on October 28. 1993 and made effective on
January 24, 1994.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, twelve months beyond the date
originally envisaged, December 31, 1995. Final disbursement took place on March 12,
1997. A balance of US$438,282/SDR 320,494.33 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Natasha Beschomer and Hongjoo Hahm, China and
Mongolia Country Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Region, with substantive
input from Chris Wardell, Senior Mining Engineer. IENIM. It was reviewed by
Mr. Klaus Rohland, Division Chief, and Mr. Yo Kimura, Project Advisor. The Borrower
provided comments which are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's mission to Mongolia in November
1996. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
Supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
memoranda and interviews with IDA and Borrower staff involved in project
implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting
on the draft ICR, preparing an evaluation of the project's execution and implementation,
and by preparing detailed statistical tables on procurement and disbursement for each of
the project components.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(2551-MOG)
EVALUATION SlUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Following internal political changes and the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989,
Mongolia began a difficult transition to a market economy. The Government launched a
stabilization and structural reform program, but the process of transition was hampered
by a series of unforeseen supply shocks. These included worsening terms of trade,
disruptions in import flows, collapse of traditional markets and the virtual cessation of
Soviet aid that had reached 30 percent of GDP during the 1980s. These external factors
caused a 20 percent fall in real GDP in 1990-93. In 1991, IDA approved a $30 million
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) to provide quick-disbursing balance of payments
support for the Government's reform efforts. In 1993. the Government requested a
follow-up operation to finance additional imports and critical inputs in priority sectors.
Project Objectives
2.    The Mongolia Economic Transition Support (METS) Credit was designed to
finance imports needed to maintain and develop  core economic sectors: energy,
transport, coal and copper mining. The project also financed technical assistance to
improve production and management skills in the mining sector. It included policy
conditions on energy tariff increases for publicly-owned utility and transport companies.
Secondary objectives of the METS were to bridge Mongolia's $200 million annual
financing gap in 1991-93 and to catalyze assistance from other donors in core sectors.
METS was implemented in parallel with an IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF), approved in 1993.
3.   In light of sectoral constraints and priorities, and the importance of coordinating
limited donor resources, the objectives of the METS were timely and appropriate. The
project risks, as identified at appraisal, did in fact materialize, including procurement
delays, particularly involving suppliers from the former Soviet Union, delinquency in
payment of end-user counterpart funds, and partial compliance with tariff increase
conditions. The assessment of risks was therefore realistic. The implementing agency
was the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The METS achieved its sectoral and physical objectives. The sectors targeted
were well-identified and they proved central to the country's economic recovery in 1994-
95. Copper exports increased significantly, and the energy and transport sectors were
able to support increased levels of economic activity. In the coal sector, the project was
able to stem the decline in production and avoid a breakdown of supplies to the power
stations. The METS was able to supply much-needed spare parts to key sectors to sustain
production, and to introduce new equipment, providing a demonstration effect. The
METS thus contributed effectively to a multi-donor effort to rehabilitate the energy
sector. From the macro perspective, these developments had significant supply side
effects on the economy. Increased copper production, bolstered by rehabilitation of
energy and transport networks, ensured an adequate real sector response to stabilization
policies. METS supported four technical assistance programs to the coal and copper
mines.  These enabled economic viability, operational capacity and environmental
assessment of mining operations, thus facilitating the identification and preparation of the
follow-up Energy Sector Survey and the Coal Project (2854-NIOG).
5.    The original credit amount was SDR 14.2 million, equivalent to $20 million.
Actual foreign exchange costs, at the time of project completion, were $20.68 million,
including $19.02 for imported goods and $1.66 million for technical assistance. Local costs
totaled $4.95 million equivalent for customs duties and sales tax. Thus, the total project
cost was $25.63 million, compared with the originail estimate of $25.4 million. The final
disbursement was made on March 12, 1997, 15 months after the original closing date of
December 31, 1995. The project proceeded on schedule during the early stages of
implementation, but procurement delays required extension of the closing date to December
31, 1996.
6.    Overall project implementation was satisfactory, but compliance with Credit
covenants was uneven.  The METS contributed to the development of the sectors
concerned, within the overall context of Mongolia's stabilization program. The project
played a major role in donor coordination in the energy sector. Most practical problems
related to delayed equipment delivery, especially from suppliers in the former Soviet
Union. With regard to policy conditions, counterpartfunds from end users were paid in
full, albeit after delays. except in the coal sector where payments fell short of the target.
The Government proved reluctant to increase energy prices, as stipulated in the Credit
Agreement, notwithstanding reminders from IDA. Energy prices were increased across
the board in September 1996 as part of a newly-elected Democratic Coalition
Government's price liberalization policy, but this development was unrelated to the
project.
7.    IDA's strong emphasis on procurement and logistical details enabled swift project
implementation. The Borrower showed a strong commitment to achievement of sectoral,
physical and institutional project objectives, even though policy compliance was weak.
MTI largely maintained the procurement schedule. notwithstanding high staff turnover in



iv
the last two years of implementation. Despite repeated efforts, IDA did not secure full
compliance with policy conditions in the context of the project. IDA issued formal
reminders, and repeatedly noted counterpart fund and energy price problems during
project supervision. In the absence of political commitment, however, these conditions
could not be enforced. Energy tariff increases are still an important, but sensitive,
element in policy dialogue and subsequent sector lending operations such as the FY96
Coal Project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
8.    Five lessons emerge from IDA's experience with the METS Credit. First, donor
coordination is essential to ensure the rehabilitation of key sectors, such as energy,
especially where individual donor resources are limited. Second, import financing
projects create a powerful demonstration effect for end-users by diversifying from
traditional supply sources. Third, setting a clear procurement timetable and advancing
procurement procedures is extremely beneficial to iast-disbursing import support
projects. Fourth, including sector studies in an emergency rehabilitation project is useful
in developing comprehensive sector-specific projects further down the line. It also
contributes to institutional development, and thereby strengthens project sustainability.
Finally, the experience of the METS suggests that, without strong upfront emphasis on
policy conditionalities, the effectiveness of balance of payments support operations as
vehicles for policy reforms is greatly reduced, given their primary emphasis on imports of
spare parts and provision of technical assistance. These lessons have been incorporated
into the design of subsequent investment projects: the Transport Rehabilitation Credit
(2615-MOG), and the Coal Project (2854-MOG).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(2551 -MOG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.   In the wake of internal political changes and the collapse of the Soviet Union in
1989, Mongolia embarked on a difficult transition to a market economy. The
Government's early reform program concentrated on liberalizing and privatizing large
parts of the economy, and building up appropriate legal and institutional structures to
implement the reforms. The process of transition, however, was harnpered by a series of
unforeseen external supply shocks. These included worsening terms of trade, disruptions
in the flow of essential imports from and collapse of traditional export markets to
Mongolia's traditional trading partners, and the virtual cessation of Soviet financial
assistance that reached 30 percent of GDP during the 1980s. Shortages of intermediate
goods and spare parts were evident throughout the country, and agricultural and industrial
production slumped. During 1990 to 1993, Mongolia experienced a cumulative drop in
real GDP of 20 percent.
2.    The first IDA operation in Mongolia was a $30 million Economic Rehabilitation
Credit (2320-MOG). The Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) provided emergency
financing for critical imports in late 1991.1 The continuing decline in the economy in
1993, the need to finance additional imports and critical inputs, and the almost fully
committed status of the ERC, prompted the Government to request a second quick
disbursing operation from IDA. The $20 million Economic Transition Support Credit
(255 1-MOG) was IDA's response to the Government's request, and it was IDA's second
balance of payments support project in Mongolia.
3.    The objectives of the Mongolia Economic Transition Support (METS)2 Credit
were entirely appropriate to the country's macroeconomic conditions and sectoral
priorities. The primary objective was to finance imports needed to maintain and develop
the core economic sectors-energy, transport, coal and copper mining-as a follow-up to
the ERC. The project financed: (a) the import of equipment, materials, and spare parts
for the country's two largest coal mines; (b) equipment and spare parts for its major
The Economic Rehabilitation Credit (2320-MOG) was approved on December 19, 1991; was made
effective on February 20, 1992; and was closed on June 30, 1994.
2The Economic Transition Support Credit (255 1-MOG) was approved on October 28, 1993; was made
effective on January 24, 1994; and was closed on December 31, 1996.



2
copper mine in Erdenet, which alone generates half the country's total export revenues;
(c) materials, spare parts, and servicing of locomotives for the Mongolian Railways; and
(d) gasoline pumps and high-speed lubricants for the Neft (Petroleum) Import Concern
(NIC). The goods and services financed under the Project were selected from a list of
priority imports prepared by the concerned user agencies.  In addition, the Project
financed technical assistance to improve management of the coal and copper mines. It
also introduced policy conditions on energy tariff increases of publicly-owned utility and
transport companies. These were linked explicitly to policy conditionalities established
under an IMF-supported stabilization program.
4.    A secondary objective of METS was coordination with other donor activities.
METS was part of a multi-donor effort to bridge Mongolia's short- to medium-term
financing gap, estimated at around $200 million annually during 1991-93. IDA
involvement was expected to, and did, catalyze similar assistance from other donors
during the third Mongolia Assistance Group meeting that was held in September 1993.
5.    The implementing agency for the project was the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI), although the Ministry of Finance (MOF) had overall responsibility for project co-
ordination and disbursement. MTI established a specialized project/procurement unit
under the ERC. This unit continued to operate as a link between end-user beneficiaries,
suppliers and MOF. As part of a ministerial reorganization in August 1996, the unit was
transferred to the Ministry of External Relations. End-users received imported equipment,
materials and spare parts against payment in local currency (Tugriks) of their c.i.f. cost at
the prevailing unified, free market exchange rate. Tugrik funds to pay for the imports,
technical assistance and local costs came from three sources: from the beneficiary
agency's own resources, from domestic credit, and/or from state budgetary allocations.
End-users were required to pay for the import of goods at the time of custom clearance
and for the services at the time of payment by IDA.
6.    METS was not an unusually risky operation. The only significant risks identified
at appraisal were: (a) possible delays in procurement, particularly involving suppliers
from the former Soviet Union. This risk was mitigated by developing a detailed
procurement timetable prior to negotiations, by using dedicated staff in MTI for project
implementation, and by hiring a long-term advisor to provide specialized procurement
and logistical support; and (b) delays in payment of counterpart funds and
implementation of energy price adjustments. The commitment of end-users was uncertain
in this regard. This assessment of risks proved accurate.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJEC-T OBJECTIVES
7.    Macroeconomic Objectives. METS was not designed to address macroeconomic
policy issues. However, it had significant supply side effects on the economy, especially
through thriving copper exports. The rehabilitation of the coal and railways sectors was
instrumental to the surge of copper production, as energy supply and transportation



3
became increasingly reliable. Greater copper production ensured an adequate real sector
response to stabilization policies, by easing balance of payment constraints, by stabilizing
the exchange rate, and by increasing tax revenues.
8.    Sectoral Objectives and Policy Issues. The sectors targeted were well-identified,
and they proved central to the recovery in 1994 and 1995. The copper sector, in
particular, contributed to a strong increase in exports, and the energy and transport sectors
were in turn able to support increased levels of economic activity. In the coal sector, the
objective of restoring production to peak levels proved somewhat ambitious. However,
the Project was able to stem the decline in coal production and avoid a breakdown of
supplies to the power stations. The coal and petroleum price adjustment policy
conditionalities, as stated in the Credit Agreement, were designed so that coal and
petroleum distribution companies could begin to operate according to market principles,
and increase their own sources of revenue. The proposed coal and gasoline price
adjustments reflected variations in costs due to internal inflation and currency
depreciation. Although Government compliance with these conditions was limited (see
para. 14), they served as a useful starting point for ensuing discussions with policy
makers and managers on energy pricing. The project did not intend to design a fully
comprehensive energy sector pricing policy that would have included integrated power
and electricity tariff structures. Progress was subsequently made in this area through the
Coal Project. However, this lack of linkages, within the context of the METS, between
the different energy sub-sectors made price adjustment for coal, and to a lesser extent for
gasoline, difficult to enforce.
9.    Physical Objectives. The most important objective of METS was to supply
much needed spare parts to key sectors of the economy to sustain production, and to
introduce new equipment and trade links for demonstration purposes.
* For the coal mines, METS financed new heavy earth-moving equipment and spare
parts for existing plant. The former was procured primarily through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), the latter through Direct Contracting with historic
suppliers in the countries of the former Soviet tUnion. The provision of heavy earth-
moving equipment, and the availability of spare parts helped to halt the decline in
overburden removal at Baganuur and Sharyngol mines. As a result, overburden
removal during the summer allowed coal extraction to continue during the winter and
helped avert a collapse in production.
* In the copper sector, METS financed the purchase of equipment and spare parts
through ICB. All equipment is now in service at Erdenet copper mine. Although the
provision of heavy earth-moving equipment contributed to increasing productive
capacity, this is probably the sector where the net impact of the project was smallest.
In fact, high international copper prices in 1994-5 ensured a consistent cashflow to
Erdenet. which has been able to finance its own purchase of parts and new equipment.



4
The major impact has been the demonstration effect of the new equipment bought
under the project through ICB.
*  For Mongolian Railways, METS financed track accessories, locomotives, and spare
parts. All track accessories and spares were purchased from historic suppliers.
Fourteen locomotives were sent to Russia for servicing in 1994-95. This contributed
to maintaining railway operations, especially freight services, throughout the difficult
years of 1994 and 1995.
*  METS financed the import of gasoline pumps and high speed lubricants for Neft
Import Concern. The new dispensing pumps were well received by consumers, and
reduced leakage rates yielded local environmental benefits. The use of imported
high-speed lubricants is saving energy and reducing the rate of machine breakdown in
the mines and power plants. NIC requested unallocated funds for additional gasoline
pumps in September 1995, and was able to install or convert gasoline dispensing
facilities throughout the country.
10.   Institutional Development.   METS  supported  four technical assistance
programs, focused on long-term capacity building. They included two operational and
managerial assistance programs for the mines, and two sector technical studies. The
project also sought to develop institutional capacity in international procurement,
building on the experience under the ERC.
-  At Baganuur and Sharyngol coal mines, technical assistance provided operational,
strategic and managerial advice to managers and on-site personnel. At Erdenet
copper mine, the installation of an accounting and management information system
(MIS) is assisting management in the planning and restructuring of operations.
- The coal pricing study completed under the project sparked serious dialogue with the
authorities on energy pricing. Its findings and recommendations were used in the
preparation of IDA's Coal Project (2854-MOG), approved in 1996.
*  An environmental assessment was completed for Erdenet, detailing the impact of
mining operations on the local population, and the cost of possible remedial options.
It also identified areas where environmental improvement could lead to increased
productivity. A metallurgic testing study, originally envisaged under the project, was
canceled, notwithstanding a provision in the C redit Agreement, as Erdenet decided to
finance a grade improvement/laboratory study from its own resources.
*  The project unit within MTI, assisted by an expatriate consultant, built up skills in
procurement and in international trade transactions. However, there was a significant
turnover of staff in 1995-6, particularly after a ministerial reorganization in August
1996, and this has dissipated some of the accumulated expertise.



5
11.   Donor Coordination. The assistance provided under METS  effectively
complemented ongoing or planned quick-disbursing assistance from other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, in particular the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Germany's
Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (OECF), and the US Agency for International Development (USAID). IDA's
assistance to the energy sector, in particular, was carefully co-ordinated with the ADB
and other bilateral donors. German assistance was instrumental in rehabilitating the
Darhan power plant. USAID and ADB took responsibility for rehabilitating power plant
no. 3 in Ulaanbaatar. Japanese assistance was used to rehabilitate the railway system and
power plant no. 4 in Ulaanbaatar. Substantial funds from the METS credit were used to
procure spare parts aiid equipment from countries in the former Soviet Union, while
USAID funded the purchase of more modern mining equipment. This co-ordination
between various donor agencies helped to forestall a collapse in the energy sector in
1994-95. In addition, METS was implemented in conjunction with the Government's
macroeconomic program, that was supported by a three-year IMF Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement in June 1993.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
12.   Overall implementation and compliance with Credit covenants was satisfactory.
Most problems related to delayed equipment delivery, especially from suppliers in the
former Soviet Union, delayed counterpart fund payments from end-users, and delayed
price adjustments in the energy sector. There were significant modifications in equipment
and minor modification in technical assistance needs in the course of implementation.
13.   Factors not subject to Government control. Transport bottlenecks prevented
delivery of critical imports and spares in the mining sectors. These problems were
compounded by difficulties experienced by suppliers in the former Soviet Union, owing
to general political and economic turmoil at that time. Delays from these suppliers
caused the partial cancellation of the consignment stock portion of contracts. As a result,
funds allocated to this component had to be redirected late in the course of
implementation. This prompted the Government to request a 12-month extension of the
project closing date to procure additional spare parts for the coal mines. IDA granted a
12-month extension based on an agreed action plan and revised disbursement schedule.
14.   Factors subject to Government Control. The Government proved reluctant, for
internal political reasons,' to increase energy prices. Under the terms of the Credit
Agreement, the Government was required to adjust the price of petroleum and petroleum
products quarterly in line with international prices and exchange rate movements; coal
prices were to be adjusted quarterly in line with inflation. Coal prices were not increased
at all in 1994 and 1995, prompting IDA to issue reminders to the Government. In May
1995, IDA and the Borrower agreed that, in the context of the METS, the Government
would focus on tariff collection, rather than increases, and that price adjustments would
be discussed further as part of the forthcoming Coal Project. Petroleum and petroleum



6
product prices were increased only in October 1994, despite reminders. The Government
did not compel NIC to increase petroleum prices since this would prevent NIC from
competing with private oil distributors; the Government also continued to channel
significant budgetary subsidies to NIC throughout 1994-96. However, in September
1996, the newly-elected Democratic Coalition Government announced a policy of
sweeping  price  liberalization,  increasing  coal  prices  by  45  percent  and
petroleum/petroleum products prices by 29-60 percent. The issue of comprehensive coal
tariff reform is being addressed under the Coal Project, currently under implementation.
The issue of more comprehensive and systematic energy tariff adjustments in line with
long-run marginal costs is being discussed together with the ADB and the IMF as part of
forthcoming assistance packages and macroeconomic reform measures.
15.   Overall compliance with counterpart fund payments was satisfactory, but
variable. Counterpart fund procedures were facilitated by the relative stability of the
exchange rate, which fluctuated between Tug 430 and Tug 510 over the relevant period of
the project. At the time of Credit closing, counterpart funds were fully paid in the copper,
petroleum and transport sectors, with the coal mines lagging at 76 percent. The coal
mines experienced significant cash-flow problems arising from their inability to collect
outstanding receivables from their main customers, the power companies. The other end
users did pay counterpart funds as required, but, particularly in the case of Erdenet,
expressed some concern over the impact this would have on their investment decisions.
16.   Project Costs and Financing The original credit amount was SDR 14.2 million,
equivalent to $20 million.  Actual foreign exchange costs, at the time of project
completion, were $20.68 million, including $19.02 for imported goods and $1.66 million
for technical assistance. Local costs totaled $4.95 million equivalent for customs duties and
sales tax. Thus, the total project cost was $25.63 million, compared with the original
estimate of $25.4 million. The final disbursement was made on March 12, 1997, 15 months
after the original closing date of December 31, 1995. The project proceeded on schedule
during the early stages of implementation, but procurement delays required extension of the
closing date to December 31, 1996.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The project was designed primarily to provide emergency funds for urgently
needed equipment and supplies, not to support the long-term operations of the sectors
concerned. Sustainability is not intrinsic to balance of payments support type operations.
However, several project elements contributed to further work in these priority sectors,
and to institutional development. Specific technical assistance components looked at
long-term economic viability, operational capacity, pricing structures, and environmental
impact. In the coal sector, the project supported capacity building, through technical
assistance designed to enhance managerial and operational capabilities. At Erdenet
copper mine, the installation of accounting and management information system brought
the company closer to international standards, and was crucial in improving managerial



7
capabilities. Erdenet was so satisfied with the outcome, that it hired the same accounting
company to continue assisting improving its management and information system. The
environmental assessment carried out at Erdenet lays the foundations for an
environmentally sustainable development of copper mining at the Erdenet site.
18.   Moreover, the METS  assisted in identification and preparation of two
comprehensive sectoral rehabilitation projects: (a) the Transport Rehabilitation Credit
(2615-MOG) in FY94 which financed the medium-term development of road, railways
and urban transport; and (b) the Coal Project (2854-MOG) in FY96 which financed the
complete rehabilitation of Baganuur mine. The results of the coal pricing study and the
technical assistance to Baganuur and Sharyngol coal mines were also used in preparation
of the FY95 Energy Sector Survey, and shared with other donors, notably ADB and
OECF.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
19.   IDA's strong emphasis on procurement details and its subsequent supervision
missions, both formal and informal, were an important factor in the satisfactory outcome
of the project.  This was especially important given persistent difficulties in
communication links. In this regard, the METS took into account lessons learned from
the ERC. A great deal of emphasis was placed on the preparatory stage. Advanced
procurement allowed disbursement to start right after Credit effectiveness; specifying
realistic and detailed procurement timetables and securing the services of the same
procurement consultant who had assisted MTI with the ERC also contributed to effective
project implementation. IDA demonstrated flexibility by extending the loan when
procurement delays were experienced, and by facilitating reallocation of funds for
priority equipment purchase, particularly in the coal sector.
20.   IDA might have paid greater attention to communicating the rationale behind
counterpart fund requirements to end-users during the preparation phase. IDA might also
have placed increased pressure on the relevant authorities to comply with energy tariff
increases. However, the importance of these policy conditions was not emphasized
upfront, and enforcement was subsequently difficult in the absence of a specific policy-
based lending operation. In recognition of this problem, and based on more detailed
analysis of coal price structures carried out under the METS, the discussion on coal tariff
increases became central to the preparation of the Coal Project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
21.   Throughout the project cycle, the Borrower showed a strong commitment to
achievement of project objectives. Most of the shortcomings originated from general
political and external constraints, rather than from project specific problems. The
performance of MTI in implementation and procurement remained effective, despite the
increasing staff turnover.



8
22.   Compliance with covenants was less than totally satisfactory. Delays in adjusting
coal and gasoline prices were a recurrent problem, requiring IDA to issue several warning
letters to the Government. The cancellation of a large portion of the metallurgic testing
study at Erdenet was also in breach of the Credit Agreement, although Erdenet
subsequently undertook to carry out a similar study at its own expense.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
23.   The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The METS sustained the
recovery of the Mongolian economy, by avoiding the collapse of the coal and transport
sectors, helped introduce modern managerial and technical methods, through technical
assistance and new equipment. It also helped in the transition to a market economy by
initiating cost-related pricing policies in the coal and petroleum sectors.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
24.   The METS was designed as a quick-disbursing balance of payment support to
help overcome critical bottlenecks in production. There are no provisions for future
operation, but the project contributed to the design of subsequent sector-specific
assistance strategies (see para. 18).
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
25.   Five key lessons emerge from IDA's experience with the METS Credit. First,
donor coordination is essential to ensure the rehabilitation of key sectors, especially
where individual donor resources are limited. Close cooperation between donors in
Mongolia clearly enhances synergy, as evidenced by the multidonor effort in the energy
sector. Second, import financing projects create a powerful demonstration effect for end-
users. This was evident in the power plants which switched to high-powered lubricants,
and in the gas stations which began to use imported fuel pumps. T he installation of heavy
earth-moving equipment in the coal and copper mines transformed the modes of
production substantially. Third, setting a clear procurement timetable and advancing
procurement procedures is extremely beneficial to fast-disbursing import support
projects. This requires intensive upfront training of local staff, and flexibility in handling
unforeseen problems. Fourth, including sector studies in an emergency rehabilitation
project is useful in developing comprehensive sector-specific projects further down the
line. It also contributes to institutional development, and thereby strengthens project
sustainability. Finally, the experience of the METS highlights the difficulty of enforcing
compliance with policy conditionalities in operations which support piecemeal
rehabilitation of a sector, mainly through imports of spare parts and provision of technical
assistance. Without strong upfront emphasis on policy conditionalities, the effectiveness
of emergency balance of payments support operations of this type as vehicles for policy
reforms is greatly reduced, notwithstanding efforts to remedy this problem during project
supervision.



9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                      2                x                0                  0
Financial Objectives                 U               ED               E                  I
Institutional Development                            =%/ [i                              I
Physical Objectives                 ED                0                0
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                         1               g                [1               r
Other Social Objectives                                               L0
Environmental Objectives                            E Dl!
Public Sector Management            [F                                LI 0IZ
Private Sector Development           a                                 LI
(Continued)
B. Proiect Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
ED                        0                          0



10
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficient
(v')                     ($)                        (/)
Identification                      iii                        i                         I
Preparation Assistance              Fi                        EDi
Appraisal                            F1  
Supervision                         [11                       I 
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                   ED
Implementation                                cl              ED               D
Covenant Compliance                             ]             El               3
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
CO)             ()               (/)                V)
0l                                El               EO



11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit title                    Purpose                                 Year of a  Status
Preceding operations
1. Economic Rehabilitation Credit   (a) to rehabilitate, maintain and operate  FY92         Completed
2320-MOG                        priority sectors of its economy and (b) to
check further serious deterioration in the
country's economic infrastructire.
Following operations
1. Transport Rehabilitation Credit   (a) to arrest the deterioration of the quality  [Y94   lending
261 5-MOG                       and quantity of transport services in railways,
urban transport, trucking and roads: (b) to
strengthen sectoral institutional capacity; and
(c) to contribute to macroeconomic reforms
through complementary measures at the
sectoral level.
2. Coal Project                   To reverse the decline in Mongolia's coal   FY96          lending
2854-MOG                       production by increasing sustainable
production levels at the Baganuur mine to 4
million tons per year. Additional, associated
objectives are for Baganuur: (a) to develop
financial self-sufficiency, (b) to increase
equipment productivity and improve
efficiency; (c) to operate as an independent
commercial company; and (dl to operate in an
environmentally acceptable manner over the
long term.



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  January 1993     January 1993
Preparation                                April 1993        April 1993
Appraisal                                 June 1993          June 1993
Negotiations                               September 1993    September 1993
Board Presentation                         October 1993      October 1993
Signing                                   November 1993      November 1993
Effectiveness                             January 1994       January 1994
Project Completion                        June 1995          December 1996
Credit Closing                            December 1995      December 1996



13
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ millions)
FY94         FY95       FY96        FY97
Appraisal Estimate              15.0         20.0        -           -
Actual                          10.1          16.0       18.7       20.0
Actual as % of Estimate         67%           80%/0      -           -
Date of Final Disbursement      March 12, 1997



14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(Not Applicable)
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable)



15
TABLE 7: STIJDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Purpose as Defined
Study        at Appraisal/Redefined       Status         Impact of Study
I.Coal Pricing Study   To develop options for a  Completed    Used in the
rational and efficient                    preparation of Coal
coal pricing mechanism.                   Project
2.Environmental     To assess environmental   Completed       Provided valuable
Assessment Erdenet   degradation resulting                    guidance for
from the mining and                       assessing the impact
copper processing                         of mining
operation, and develop                    operations on the
specific measures to                     local population,
ensure that production                    and for costing the
operates within                           possible remedial
international                             options
environmental standards.
3. Metallurgical    To identify options to    Canceled at request  None
Testing Study       preserve copper        of beneficiary
(Erdenet Copper     concentrate grades.
Mine)



16
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)   Actual/Latest Estimate(US$ million)
Local     Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign      Total
Item             Costs      Costs                  Costs      Costs
1. Copper             1.20       4.10        5.30        0.92        3.52         4.44
2. Coal                1.20       4.00        5.20       1.91        7.35         9.26
3. Railways            1.30       5.00        6.30       1.26        4.85         6.11
4. Lubricants         0.60        2.00        2.60       0.58        2.23         2.81
5. Gasoline           0.50        1.00        1.50       0.28        1.07         1.35
pumps
Total critical        4.80       16.10       20.90       4.95       19.02        23.97
imports
6. Technical             -        1.90        1.90          -        1.66         1.66
Assistance
7. Contingencies      0.60        2.00        2.60
TOTAL                5.40       20.00      25.40        4.95       20.68        25.63
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ millions)                   (USSmillions)
Local  Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign      Total
Source                Costs   Costs                Costs     Costs
IBRD/IDA                    -      20.0      20.0         -      20.68      20.68
Domestic contribution    5.40         -      5.40      4.95          -       4.95
TOTAL                   5.40      20.0    25.40       4.95      20.68      25.63



17
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Not Applicable)
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement    Section   Covenant   Present    Original    Revised             Description of           Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment       covenant
date        date
Development   2.03        5           NC          12/31/95     12/31/96    Closing date of        Closing date extended
Credit                                                                     December 31, 1995      to December 31, 1996
Agrement                                                                                          because of procuremnt
delays
Schedule 2 of   Part C, 3. 3          NC                                   Carry out metallurgic   Testing cancelled as
DCA                                                                        testing of ECC's copper Erdenet intends to
concentrate            carry it out in-house.
Schedule 4 of   2         2           PC                                   Payment by end-users  Incomplete payment of
DCA                                                                                               counterpart funds by
coal mines
Scehdule 4 of   3 (d)     12          CP                                   Adjustments of the     Delays in adjusting
DCA                                                                        price of coal on       coal price in 1994
aquarterly basis in line
with domestic inflation
Schedule 4 of   4         12          CP                                   Adjustments of the     Delays in adjusting
DCA                                                                        price of petroleum,    price in 1995.
fuel. and lubricants on a
quarterly basis in line
with international
prices and exchange
rate movements
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     9.  = Monitoring. review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                          13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



18
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(Not Applicable)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                           Planned         Revised         Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$ Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                             75.2  180.7
Appraisal-Board                                                      20.8   58.4
Negotiations through Board Approval                                   0.1    0.5
Supervision                                                          37.0   84.5
Completion                                                           12.0    6.8
TOTAL                                                              145.1  330.9



19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized        Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of          Nlonth/       of         Days in         Staff Skills        tation           ment         Types of
Project Cycle        'ear       Persons        Field        Represented           Status       Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal*  4/93        4                          Economics
Through Appraisal*      4/93        4                          Engineering
Mining/Petroleum
Procurement
Appraisal through       7/93        4           5              Economics
Board Approval                                                 Engineering
Procurement
Supervision             7/94        3           6              Economics                 S              S         procurement
5/95        2           5              Engineering                                        delays
11/95      2            i              Mining                                             counterpart fund
5196        2           4              Procurement                                        delays
energy tariff
increase delays
Completion              11/96       2           2              Economics                 S              S         reorganization
Procurement                                       of implementing
agency






20                           Annex 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(2551-MOG)
ANNEX 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Background
(a) Signature of Credit C-2551 MOG
The Economic Transition Support Project C-2551 MOG - was initiated
immediately following the extreme economic crisis addressed by Credit C-2320MOG,
and when Mongolia still had effectively no foreign reserves. Part of the intention was to
provide access to hard currency against counterpart funds.
The agreement was signed on 4 November 1993 and became effective January
1994, with expected completion date June 30, 1995.
(b) Amount and Currency
The credit C-2551MOG was approved in the amount of SDR 14,200,000
equivalent to US$ 20,000,000.
2. Ida Performance
a. IDA performance during development & implementation of the project
IDA recognised from the outset that there was a lack of knowledge and experience
of dealing with international procurement and international banking procedures in the
beneficiary agencies although an effective procurement cell had been set up in the
Ministry of Trade and Industry through the appointment of a specialist procurement
adviser. In country training in the procedures and practices of IDA bidding procedures
and disbursement regulations was given, both by IDA staff and the procurement advisor.
b. Lessons learned
(1)   That assembly and training of a procurement team  is critical to swift
disbursement.



21                        Annex 1
(2)   That there are many instances where LIB procedures and International Shopping
are more applicable than full ICB procedures, both with regard to speed and the ability to
deal with principals rather than middlemen.
(3)   That provision should always be made for task specific training and experience in
a developed economy for nationals of the Borrower, particularly where equipment new to
the Borrower is to oe procured. Prices of items from developed economies can be
startlingly different from all previous experience, and often cost/benefit criteria have to be
seen to be believed. There is always difficulty in adjusting between changes of economic
environment when only a mental imperative to change exists.
3. Borrower's performance
a. Project Implementation and objectives
As there was harmony from the beginning between IDA and the Borrower, and
the special case of direct contract supply from sole sources in the former USSR had been
allowed for, the project went ahead smoothly. Virtually all contracts were let and funds
committed during the initial terms of the Project. Problem areas were the Technical
Assistance component to Erdenet for Copper Grade Improvement, the time required for
execution of the environmental review of Erdenet's tailings pond and dam stability (for
seasonal climatic reasons) and the failure of potential direct contract suppliers form the
former USSR to accept and fulfil contracts in time.
A major difficulty was the realisation of counterpart funds during this period. It is
fair to say that if the beneficiaries had the turgik funds they would not have used the IDA
methods at all but would have made direct contracts for their needs. They were reluctant
to accept the immediate liability to pay counterpart funds out of revenue or current budget
subventions. In some cases no provision whatever had been made either for counterpart
funds or even for Import Duty and Sales Tax. As a result, Erdenet declined to take up
spare parts for their heavy earthmoving equipment and beneficiaries in the Coal Mining
Sector could take up only part of what was provided for in the contract of supply. Despite
the difficulties created by this requirement the appropriate amounts (incorporating the
various changes in exchange rates) were largely collected.
Direct transaction between beneficiary agencies and the MOF have in fact been
the method of bringing the counterpart funds into the Treasury. The project has
highlighted the problem associated with the requirement (albeit for sound economic
reasons) for counterpart funds and is something which must in future be more carefully
considered, and the position of the beneficiaries properly assessed and prepared. The role
played in procurement and distribution by the Ministry of Trade and Industry in the
various sectors and consideration of their place is in hand vis a vis the role of the private
sectors and the new structure of Government. Following the elections in June 1996 the
Ministry of Trade and Industry was disbanded and constituent elements absorbed into the
Ministry of External Relations, the Ministry of Infrastructure Development, the Ministry



22                        Annex 1
of Agriculture and Industry and the Ministry of Finance. MER and MOF effectively now
have responsibility for administration of loans/credits and procurement.
However beneficiary agencies such as the Petroleum Import Concern are now in
a position to deal directly internationally and the final transaction of the Credit was
implemented through PIC own resources with guidance from MER/Procurement Adviser.
It is the intention that potential beneficiaries shall be enabled to carry out most of their
own transactions, with coordination form a central body (MER and MOF).
4. Relationship between IDA and the Borrower
Relationships were good. Both IDA and the Borrower until the latter stages,
maintained the same team throughout the project, and mutual understanding was highly
developed. Negotiation was possible on any issue. The peculiar to Mongolia problems
were very well understood and appreciated by IDA, and the request for extension of
closing date of the Project- partly for reasons of lack of performance by potential
suppliers and partly because of the change of political management and subsequent
restructuring of Government and the various Ministries - was fully understood and a
realistic closing date of 31 December 1996 was agreed.
Physical communications (mail and courier) are erratic. Although the postal
service is the more efficient in terms of speed of delivery, there is always a risk of loss.
The tendency therefore was to look for travellers who could hand carry documents.
Delays often ensued in documentary transactions. It appears that IDA can not work from
facsimile transmissions of documents etc., although telex transmissions can be accepted.
In view of the excessive cost and time involved inforwarding original documents,
provision should be made to work from facsimile transmissions to be authenticated later
during supervisory missions. A simple commercial code could be used to verify origin.
5. Description of execution of subprojects financed from credit proceeds
a. General
Provision was made for direct contracting to sole suppliers in the former USSR,
with a view to speedy provision of parts and material. Where direct contracting was
undertaken the problems encountered were the unfamiliarity of the ex USSR banking
system with the provisions of international banking, and therefore inadequate provision
of details for disbursement was a common problem in disbursement.
b. Mining Sector
i. Copper
US $ 5 000 000.00 was allocated to this project feature, but in the end only
US $ 3,528,130.00 was utilised, because



23                        Annex 1
* Erdenet Copper Concern declined to take up the consignment stock of tyres
and spare parts because of the requirement to provide counterpart funds and
pay import duty and sales tax.
* Provision was made to buy 11 OT dump trucks but this option too was not
exercised, for the same reason
* Erdenet Copper Concern declined the TA for copper grade improvement,
management having decided that in house expertise and knowledge of
extraction techniques were adequate for their purposes.
The unused element was withdrawn from this component for reallocation.
The TA for improvement to Financial Management was fully utilised and
recommendations have been very successfully implemented. This comment
applies equally to the TA for environmental study of the tailings pond and dam
stability.
ii. Coal
US$ 5 000 000 was allocated to this project feature. In the end
US$8,377,983.00 was taken up   for this purpose, utilising contingency
(unallocated) funds, and reallocated funds from underutilised allocations
elsewhere. Even so, rather less than half of the provision for spare parts from the
consignment stock in support of heavy earthmoving equipment (consignment
stock) was taken up, again for lack of ability to provide counterpart funds and
import duty/sales tax.
The additional spending was largely for additional capital items (heavy
earthmoving equipment) under ICB, and the purchase by direct contract of spare
parts from original equipment suppliers in the CIS group . However, both mines
declined to purchase tyre trucks on the grounds of expense, even although they
were shown that the initial outlay could be recouped in improved production
within a short period. All provision for Technical Assistance was fully taken up
(Coal Study and Mine Management) but the result of the Mine Management TA
was rather disappointing as the Consultants were unable in some instances to
overcome the inertia of established systems and a deep seated resistance to
change. One area of marked improvement (utilising physical inputs funded by
IDA and USAID) was in the development of blasting techniques and more
efficient and cost effective use of explosives material.



24                        Annex 1
c. Transport Sector
i.    Mongolian Railways
US$ 5,000,000.00 was allocated to this project feature and was 97% utilised (US$
4,850,652.00). The small amount not taken up was because of failure of original
equipment suppliers to meet the requirement for quantities of spare parts. The
bulk of underutilised funds under this heading were taken up by additional
locomotive overhaul.
ii.   Petroleum Products and Ancillary Equipment
(a) Lubricants for high speed engines
US $ 2,000,000 was allocated to this project feature. An initial
procurement of quantities agreed in SAR resulted in an underspend of
$345,057.00. It was agreed, in order to assist in making Government
funds available for disaster alleviations (nationwide forest fire) funding for
further procurement of lubricants for high speed engines could be made
from the underspend and contingency (unallocated) resources. This
assistance by IDA was taken up in the latter part of 1996 and was, in fact,
the final transaction of the Project, amounting to $574,684.00. The total
utilised under this heading was $ 2,229,627.00
(b) Gasoline/Diesel metered delivery pumps
US$ 1,000,000.00 was allocated to this project feature. The procurement
of these pumps was keenly contested and resulted in the very good price of
$ 719,265.00 for the initially agreed 96 pumps. After installation and
usage experience they proved so successful, both in loss prevention and
environmental improvement, that  a request was made for a further
purchase and it was agreed that US$ 350,000.00 could be used for this
purpose. The total used under this heading was $ 1,069,265.00
6.    Conclusions and lessons learned
- The project objectives were satisfactorily achieved.
- Considerable flexibility was shown by IDA with regard to problems of
supply, disbursement and reallocation of funds under utilized or accruing from
exchange rate differentials and/or contingency reserves.
- The role of the elements of MTI. now dispersed to the Ministry of
External Relations and the Ministry of Finance can gradually change from being
the national procurement agency to that of policy maker and coordinator of



25                          Annex 1
procurement for the public sector and source of international contacts and price
levels etceteras.
- The project has clarified the need to examine the future role of Counterpart
funds.
- The sensivity and sensibility on the part of the IDA team enabled this
project - to be a success.



26                            Annex 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
(2551-MOG)
ANNEX 2: AIDE-MEMOIRE (MAY 1996)
1.    An International Development Association (IDA) mission visited Mongolia from
May 5-7, 1996 to review the METS project. The total Credit amount is SDR 14.2 million
(US$20 million equivalent). The project objectives are: (a) to finance the import of
equipment, spare parts and other essential inputs for the Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal
mines, and for Erdenet Copper Coroporation, including technical and operational
assistance to the coal and copper sectors; (b) to finance urgently-needed imports and
repairs for Mongolian Railways; and (c) to finance the import of lubricants and
replacement pumps for the Mongolian Petroleum Import Concern3. The Credit became
effective in January 1994.
2.    Project supervision was carried out by Ms. Natasha Beschorner. The status of
procurement and disbursement, and general implementation progress, were discussed
with the implementing agencies, the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF).   Beneficiary agencies-the Ministry of Fuel, Energy,
Geology and Mining (MEGM), Erdenet Copper Corporation, Mongolian Railways (MR)
and Neft Import Concern (NIC) Co-submitted relevant documentation to MTI. The
mission would like to express its appreciation to the Government for the co-operation and
support extended during its visit.  The following is a summary of the principal
developments since the last review mission. Its conclusions will be confirmed by Bank
management. following the mission's return to Washington.
3.    Extension of Closing Date. METS is now in its third year of implementation.
The Credit closing date, originally scheduled for December 31. 1995, was extended by 12
months in December 1995 at the request of the Borrower. This was because some delays
had been experienced with equipment procurement from historic suppliers in the former
Soviet Union, and in implementing Technical Assistance at Erdenet copper mine. In
response to the request for Credit extension, agreement was reached with MTI on an
Action Plan to complete the project within the extension period. This stipulated the
following: (a) finalization of all contracts in the mining sector before June 30, 1996; (b)
reallocation of unallocated funds based on priority needs; (c) completion of the
Environmental Impact Assessment of Erdenet Copper mine no later than April 1996; (d)
completion of an Audit report by external auditors by April 30, 1996; and (e) satisfactory
compliance with the counterpart fund requirement by June 30, 1996.
Renamed Neft Import Concem (NIC) in 1994, after being partially privatized.



27                        Annex 2
4.    Project Status, Procurement and Disbursement. Project implementation has
been satisfactory and the credit is rapidly nearing completion. A total of US$20.7
million (or $19.01 million, excluding US$1.7 million allocated to consignment stock) had
been committed, and a total of SDR 12.85 million (US$18.6 million equivalent) had been
disbursed by April 30, 1996. The total amount committed exceeds the orginal Credit
amount in US dollar terms, because of fluctuations in the SDR/US dollar exchange rate.
5.    Procurement of equipment has been effective, with the exception of deliveries of
mining equipment spares from some historic suppliers.  All Technical Assistance
contracts in the mining sector have been completed, and final reports submitted to the
beneficiary agency. One mining TA/study was cancelled. The mission emphasized the
importance of finalizing all outstanding contracts in the mining sector no later than June
30, 1996, to ensure delivery of goods, and completion of disbursements, before the Credit
closing date.
6.    Copper Sector. US$5 million were initially allocated to this project component:
US$4.15 million for equipment (wheel loaders and dozers, and graders), and US$0.85
million for technical assistance: (a) copper grade improvement (including metallurgical
testing), (b) cost and financial accounting/MIS systems upgrading, and (c) development
of an Environmental Action Plan. In total, US$3.84 million have been committed for
equipment, and US$2.89 million disbursed. All ICB procurement has been completed,
and equipment is in service at Erdenet copper mine. Some additional heavy earth moving
equipment was procured in 1995 through contract addenda. The difference between the
total amount committed and the total disbursed is US$940,870 which was allocated to
consignment stock, spare parts and tires, for Erdenet. This was to be used on a piece-by-
piece basis as required during the lifetime of the project, and paid for accordingly.
However, because of delays in the delivery of original equipment, Erdenet's requirements
from the consignment stock prior to credit closing are minimal. MTI has consequently
reallocated these funds to finance additional critical spare parts for the coal mines, and
amended the relevant contract accordingly.
7.    Copper Sector Technical Assistance.  A total of US$648,843 has been
contracted, and US$577,765 disbursed. Consultants from Arthur Anderson completed the
installation of a cost and financial accounting/MIS upgrading system at Erdenet in June
1995 (US$500,000) and submitted a final report to IDA. The consulting firm Steffen,
Robertson and Kirsten (SRK), was selected through ICB in June 1995 to carry out an
Environmental Impact Assessment at Erdenet (US$148,843). SRK submitted a summary
report to Erdenet, MTI and IDA in December 1995. Their final report is being translated
into Russian. The report examined general environmental conditions and specific
problems, including tailings pond seepage, tailings dam stability and tailings dust blow.
It included a ranking of environmental issues in terms of likely impact on local
populations and difficulty and cost of remediation, and drew up a set of priority
recommendations. The planned metallurgical testing/copper grade improvement study
was cancelled at the request of Erdenet which will proceed with its own-funded research
program.



28                       Annex 2
8.    Coal Sector. US$5 million were originally allocated to this component: US$4
million for equipment (wheel loaders and dozers, graders, and explosives mixing trucks
and tire trucks), and US$1 million to undertake a coal pricing study, and to provide
operational assistance to Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol mine management. A total of
US$8.8 million have been committed including US$4.5 million through ICB, US$0.4
through Limited International Bidding (LIB), and US$2.9 million in direct contracts for
proprietary spare parts from former Russian and CMEA suppliers. Additional funds were
allocated to this component in October 1995 from the unallocated portion of the Credit, at
the request of MEGM, to provide interim support to the coal mines before the
implementation of IDA's Coal Rehabilitation Credit (FY96). Almost all equipment and
spare parts have now been delivered and are in service. A total of US$6.9 million have
been disbursed. Baga Nuur coal mine management are currently reviewing their needs for
consignment stock, which accounts for US$765,785 of the total amount committed.
9.    Coal Sector Technical Assistance. Both contracts, a coal pricing study, and an
operational and technical assistance program for Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal mines,
have been completed, at a total cost of US$1.03 million. Findings and recommendations
were used in the preparation of the Coal Rehabilitation Credit.
10.   Mongolian Railways (MR). US$5 million were originally allocated to this
component, and a total of US$5 million have been committed. This includes US$1.24
million in track accessories, contracted through ICB, and US$3.61million in direct spare
parts and locomotive repair contracts with historic suppliers. All goods have been
delivered and are operational. One additional locomotive was sent for overhaul in
February 1996 (US$164,000), bringing the total number of locomotives repaired under
this component to 14. A total of US$4.8 million has been disbursed.
11.   Neft Import Concern (NIC). A total of US$3.0 million were initially allocated
to this component, including US$2.0 million to purchase lubricants and US$1.0 million
for petroleum pumps. To date, all the lubricants have been delivered. All procurement
was completed under ICB. Whilst the contract for lubricants was US$1.65 million, price
reductions resulted in total disbursement of US$1.5 million. All of the pumps contracted
have been delivered. In September 1995, IDA approved the allocation of US$350,000
from the unallocated funds category in order to finance the purchase of an additional 80
pumps and conversion of existing pumps in 23 aimags. These funds have been fully
disbursed.
12.   Counterpart Funds.  Substantial payments have been made towards the
counterpart fund requirement. As of May 1996, a total of Tugrik 2.24 billion in
counterpart funds have been paid to the Government budget. This is Tug. 13.4 million
short of the total requirement. The breakdown is as follows: (a) Copper, Tug. 1.03 billion
(99 percent of total); (b) Coal, Tug. 19.9 million (76 percent of total); (c) Railways, Tug.
860 million (99 percent); (d) Petroleum, Tug. 297 million (99 percent). The Government
informed the mission that additional payments in the coal subsector will be arranged in
accordance with the Credit Agreement.



29                        Annex 2
13.   Audit. An independent audit for the period November 4, 1993 to June 30, 1995
was completed in April 1996 by Arthur Anderson & Co. The audit has been reviewed by
IDA, and is considered satisfactory.
14.   Next Steps. The mission informed the Government that the next mission will
begin preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). This mission is
tentatively scheduled for August 1996.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26450
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SS<            UUANGOM @                             0TtQ. .o          _SSU-  
_   ' UVS  ~HOVSGOL
BAYAN-CLGI V
)) *;OLGIYN 34,,, ) <;J ~ ' , ~.WW, @ ' _- j? ,) OARHAN; SELENGE \\ < rv<z>IB                     IN                                                                                                                      CHINA
I         X         *_ s =DZAVHAN                   'O \_
-~~~  ,--  -~~~~~                                                 *in        U    NBAAT ~~~~~~~~HENTIY
UUASTAY                        ARHANGAY                               D GOJ
<'           ]'   M  '       F         A.  '            .  A.              ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZM  ,;ORNODANa
HOVD                                     7J EAYNHOGO  S;                                                                                                                               MN
R! SETS-ERLE              -U                                      ^ RI RNDOS
S~~~~~~                                                                       A    ADAGO-  2  N  -~  3 ,LCE
SPSOO                     -                                 tX.-                -\                                               o           EAEU_   URT'._
ALTAY
-           S......R'              0   50 100 150 200  X  I  e     rARVAYHEER RA
KILOETES 0   50  lOG  150  200                                                                                                                                                                               -  AL-ETE   AD OR LOSE oSURLACTE0TRO/VADES
CHINA onBAYmod  nrm/y'oNHONGoEOXrifomAon*NTINLCA1A
$MANDALGOBI tor9occt foneehoflM2aj~ sEO~soS ont /orn ory of ony      INTERNATIONAL  RORT
MONGOLIACATAL
OCROEER 994









IMAGING
Report No.:         16600
Type:      ICR



