Do_umo of
The World Bank
FOR OMCiAL USE ONLY
lpwt No. P-6127-WOG
XEKORANDUK AND RECONMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIEVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.2 NILIN
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR M
ECONMC TRANSITION SUPPORT PROJECT
OCTOBER 1, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6127 MOG
Type: MOP
TVis docment has a rsticted distribution ad may be used b recipients only In te performance of
-theirofficia duties Its contets asy not otebise be disclosed withu Wrld BDak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 27, 1993)
Currency Unit - Tugrik (Tug)
Before November 1991:  $1.00 - Tug 7 (barter rate)
As of June 30, 1992:  $1.00 - Tug 40 (for official transaction)
$1.00 - Tug 250 (for free market transaction)
Av of April 30, 1993:  $1.00 - Tug 150 (for official transaction)
$1.00 - Tug 420 (for free market transaction)
As of May 31, 1993:  $1.00 - Tug 398 (unified free market exchange rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AsDB        Asian Development Bank
c.i.f.      Cost, insurance, and freight
CIS         Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EAP         Environmental Action Plan
ERC         Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ESAE        (IMP) Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IMF         International Monetary Fund
METS        Mongolia Economic Transition Support
MIS         Management Information Systems
MR          Mongolian Railways
MIi         Ministry of Trade and Industry
PFP         Policy Framework Paper



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:              Mongolia
Amounts                SDR 14.2 million ($20 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreian    Total
------ ($ million) 
End-users                       5.4         -       5.4
IDA                               -      20.0      20.0
Total                      5.4      20.0      25.4
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 11954-MOG
Poverty Categorv:      Not Applicable
lien:                  IBRD 22982
IThis docolment has it otricted dstjibution and may be used by tecipicrnts only in the pertonnance
Iof their offcial dutios. Its contonts may not othetwise be dissb#4 wit' out World Bank authofation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TME
INTIRNATICVJL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MONGOLIA
FOR AN ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommen-
dation on a proposed credit to Mongolia for SDR 14.2 million ($20 million
equivalent), on staidard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, to help finance an
economic transition support project to assist in the operation, maintenance
and development of the mining and transport sectors.
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANR GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Country Policies
2.       Qgneral Background.  With a land area of about 1.6 million kim2 and a
population of only 2.2 million, Mongolia has one of the lowest population
densities in the world. Moreover, the geography and infrast-ucture of the
country make access to foreign markets difficult and costly. Since its inde-
pendence in 1921 until the late 1980s, Mongolia remained isolated from the
broader international scene.  External trade was heavily integrated with that
of the former USSR, with copper exports accounting for over half of the total.
Mongolia followed the Soviet model of a centrally planned command economy,
with emphasis on the development of industry and energy. With Soviet assis-
tance equivalent to 30 percent of the GDP, high rates of growth in investment
and output were achieved for a while but serious economic problems emerged by
the second half of the 1980s. Possibilities for further economic growth under
a command economy appeared exhausted by the turn of the decade. GDP has
declined since 1990 with the total decline for the 1990-92 period reaching
almost 20 percent. The most important reasons for this decline are the sharp
contraction of trade with the former Soviet Union and other members of former
Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), decline in export prices, and
the prevailing economic distortions.
3.        Followin6 political reforms in early 1990, an elected coalition
Government embarked on a program of economic tr- -formation to a market econ-
omy. Mongolia expanded relations with market ecor.-;mies and became a member of
various international organizations. A whole host of broad-ranging reforms
were initiated. For example, many prices were liberalized or sharply
increased, a program of privatization initiated, and legal and institutional
reforms introduced.   Most small- and medium-size public enterprises and shops
were transferred to private owners under a privatization program using vouch-
ers, and privatization of large public enterprises under this system was ini-
tiated.
4.        Recent Developments.  Mongolia's economy has suffered from external
shocks (notably the breakup of the CMEA trading system and of the former USSR
in 1991), from difficulties in transforming domestic institutions, and from
some domestic policy slippage. Following a decline of 9.9 percent in 1991,
real GDP fell by a further 7.6 percent in 1992. Notwithstanding a pickup in
activity in the emerging private sector, industrial and agricultural produc-



-2 -
tion has been constrained by shortages of intermediate goods and spare parts
and, in the case of agriculture, also by adverse weather.
5.        Inflation accelerated to over 300 percent by end-199?, reflecting
liberalization of most official prices and relaxed monetary and credit poli-
cies during the first half of the year. Monetary policies have tightened
since the fourth quarter of 1992. The Bank of Mongolia's (the Central Bank)
lending rates were raised to positive real levels and reserve requirements
were doubled. The composition of credit is shifting in favor of the private
sector.
6.        The overall fiscal deficit reached about 10 percent of GDP in ID92,
and was mainly financed by external resources. Currant expenditures were
sharply reduced in real terms during 1992, primarily through the elimination
cf most direct budgetary 4ubsidies to state enterprises and thrvugh zestra:lt
in salary increases. Goverement savings had been negative until 1991. In
1992, savings of 1.3 percent of GDP were attained. On the external front,
meanwhile, after a sharp decline of almost 50 percent during 1990191, exports
recovered in 1992 as a result of the increase in practically all noncopper
exports.
7.        There are some positive indications for the first semester of 1993.
Nominal exports (in US dollar) increased by 21 percent over the same period of
1992. Volume of exports for almost all goods increased, showing a broad-based
response to policy incentivest appropriate exchange rate policies (including
the unification of the exchange rate at the free market level in May 1993),
introduction of interest rates that are positive in real terms, abolition of
import licensing procedures (there are no export taxes and import duties are
relatively low--15 percent--and uniform), enactment of a new foreign invest-
ment law that allows transfers of benefits and assets abroad, etc. Another
positive development is the clear trend towards trade diversification.
8.        The Stabilization and Transformation Program.  The Government has
been implementing measures to stabilize and transform the economy since 1990
(i.e., privatization, price liberalization, changes in laws and regulitions,
etc.). Those efforts were supported by a standby arrangement with the IMP in
1991. Performance under the standby was mixed. Progress was made in estab-
lishing the legal framework for a market economy, banking and tax reforms,
simplification of the exchange system, and price liberalization. Slippages in
policy implementation, however, occurred, particularly in monetary policies.
Performance criteria for end-June and end-September 1992 were not observed.
Subsequently, an informal program was adopted by the newly elected Government
and monitored by the IMF staff. During the last quarter of 1992, the Govern-
ment tightened its monetary policies, adjusted interest rates, increased fis-
cal revenues, controlled expenditures, introduced a new sales tax, raised
administrated prices, adjusted the exchange rate, etc. Reflecting these mea-
sures, the targets of the informal program were met. Meanwhile, discussions
took place between the Government and staff from the IMF and the bank on a
Policy Framework Paper (PEP). As a result of those discussions, a PFP was
agreed in June 1993. An IMP Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
was also approved in June 1991.



- 3 -
9.        The main macroeconomic objectives of the Government articulatsd in
the PFP are to reduce inflation and to reverse the decline in output. to
support the stabilization efforts and provide scope for adequate expansion of
credit to the productive sectors, the Government vill aim at financing the
budget deficit from external sources. Expansion in domestic credit is being
restrained to a level consistent with inflation targets and external objec-
tives. The Bank of Mongolia is taking steps to improve the monitoring of
monetary developments and the supervision of coamercial banks. Interest rates
are basically free. Key structural reforms include: further privatization,
supported by measures to improve the legal and regulatory framswork and mea-
sures to strengthen corporate governance; the completion of the process of
price liberalization; and the removal of remaining restrictions on production
and trade associated vith the old system of state orders and rationing.
Finally, improvements in public resource allocation are in progress: invest-
ment expenditures are now subject to more critical scrutiny; and a rolling
three-year public investment program is under preparation.
B. External Environment
10.       Given its geography and economic ties, Mongolia is highly vulnerable
to external events, particularly from Russia and/or China. The country
depends almost totally on Russia for the provision of petroleum. However, as
the reform program progresses and external political and economic relations
are diversified, this vulnerability is being somewhat reduced. A diversifica-
tion of trade has been taking place since 1990. For example, exports to G-7
countries increased from 4 percent of the total in 1990 to 9 percent in the
first semester of 1993; exports to China, negligible in 1990, now account for
about 25 percent of the total; exports to "other countries" increased from 15
percent of the total in 1990 to 29 percent. Exports to Russia, on the other
hand, accounted for about 80 percent of the total in 1990, but represent only
about 40 percent at present.
11.       Even under a scenario of complete commitment to reforms, Mongolia's
short and medium-term balance of payments prospects are subject to consider-
able weaknesses and risks, due to its heavy dependence on copper exports to
Russia as well as the import-intensive nature of the economy. However, these
weaknesses are diminishing gradually as nontraditional exports continue to
grow, as changes in relative prices result in a less import-intensive economy
and as new markets develop for both imports and exports. Needless to say,
improvements in the domestic situatior within Russia would have a positive
impact on Mongolia. By the same token, further development of relations with6
China would reduce Mongolia's balance of payments vulnerability.
12.       Mongolia's debt in convertible currency amounted to $340 million at
the end of 1992. Debt in nonconvertible currency is owed mostly to Russia,
some of which is not due until the year 2000. An agreement has been reached
with Russia, in principle, that future debt service would not be such as to
impede Mongolia's economic development. In any case, debt negotiations with
Russia are ongoing, covering more than 10 billion Rubles. The way this debt
is settled will be a key determinant of Mongolia's balance of payments posi-
tion in the future, and is an additional reason for Mongolia to be very con-
servative in contracting loans on commercial terms as stipulated in the PEP.
Debt service in 1993 is projected to account for about 22 percent of export



- 4 -
earnings, reflecting large short-term and trade-related credits previously
contracted. However, it is estimated to decline to about 7 percent over the
medium term. In order to keep a serviceable external debt, Mongolia should
avoid contracting new loans on commercial terms. Given its vulnerable balance
of payments position, its need for large amounts of external capital for the
foreseeable future (over $150 million per year), and the expected difficulties
of the transition process, the country will need to continue to rely on
grants, concessional assistance and direct foreign investment. Creditworthi-
ness is not anticipated over the medium term.
C.  Country Assistance Strategy
13.       Recent Performance and Bank's Resoonss.  As mentioned before, the
country has unified its exchange rate at a free, market level and most prices
have been liberalized. Government participation in trade and production is
falling. In response to the present liberalization program, most exports
increased substantially during the first semester of 1993.
14.       When Mongolia announced its political decision to transform itself
into a market-oriented economy in 1991, the country was suffering from exter-
nal shock due to the turmoil in (and subsequent dissolution of) the former
Soviet Union. Moreover, the knowledge of the authorities and civil servants
about the way a market-oriented economy operates and about its institutional
requirements was extremely limited. Consequently, the Bank's strategy at that
juncture was to: (a) provide financial assistance for critical imports needed
to ameliorate the impact of the external shock; (b) provide technical assis-
tance to help the country create the institutions required by a market-ori-
ented economy and to assist the authorities design appropriate policies in key
sectors (mining, agriculture, trade, public investment, etc); and (c) help
coordinate broader bilateral and multilateral efforts to assist Mongolia.
15.       In implementing this strategy, the Bank has taken the following
steps:
(a) two operations were approved in FY 1992 (the Economic Rehabilitation
Credit--ERC--and the Technical Assistance Credit--TAC). The ERC for
$30 million provided foreign exchange for critical imports in min-
ing, transportation, agriculture, power and petroleum. After one
year and a half, it is almost completely disbursed and it has had a
direct impact in ameliorating the impact of external trade disrup-
tions on Mongolia. The TAC for $5 million was designed to improve
public sector management through institutional strengthening of the
Ministries/Agencies of Justice, Trade and Industry, Finance,
National Development Board, Customs, Central Bank and the Statistics
Office. The TAC is also providing advisory services (including
sectoral assessments), equipment and training. Several sectoral
studies (mining, coal, transport) have been completed or are close
to completion and are being used intensively in our policy dialogue.
Advisory services for project evaluation, trade policies, petroleum
exploration promotion, and improvement of statistical systems
(including social indicators) are being provided under the TAC.
Over 25 percent of the TAC has been disbursed. Overall, this credit
is also proceeding satisfactorily; and



- 5 -
(b) the Bank has been co-chairing with the Japanese Government an annual
Assistance Group Meeting in Tokyo. The meetings have mobilized
short-term assista.ace required by Mongolia to overcome urgent needs
created by the external trade disruptions and to provide financing
for new investments. Three meetings have taken place since 1991.
16.       Country's Development StrateSX.  The medium-term macroeconomic
objectives are to reverse the decline in output, restore financial stability,
and make progress toward external viability. The Government program articu-
lated in the rFP aims to limit the contraction of economic activity to less
than 2 percent in 1993 and restore real GDP growth thereafter. The rate of
inflation is targeted to be reduced from about 320 percent at end-1992 to
single digits by 1995. The external current account deficit is to be con-
tained to 17 percent of GDP over the medi7m term, gross international reserves
are to be rebuilt to a level equivalent to two and a half morths of imports
and external payments arrears are to be eliminated. These are recognized as
ambitious but achievable targets, the realization of which will require satis-
factory external conditions and full implementation of stabilization measures
and structural changes outlined in the PFR and in the Statement of Economic
Strategy for the Medium Term.
17.       Restoration of economic growth will depend on recovery in the agri-
cultural, industrial, and services sectors, especially in export-related
activities. Priority is being given inter alia to reversing the decline in
food supplie3 in recent years. A positive supply response in agriculture is
expected from the improvement in the terms of trade for the sector resulting
from the establishment of market-determined producer prices, appropriate
exchange rate, elimination of trade barriers, and a simplified import system
consisting of a low, uniform import duty (15 percent). The services sector
offers potential for gains in private employment in areas such as tourism,
external and internal trade, business and professional services, and distribu-
tion. Some industrial subsectors, such as small, import-substituting consumer
goods industries initiated with private capital, should also begin contrib-
uting to growth. Howevex, output of many traditional indus ries is expected
to remain stagnant or decline as a more rational price struoture and hard
budget constraints force nonviable entities to close and other entities to
undergo rehabilitation and restructuring.
18.       The Government is committed to the continuation of the privatization
program, with future asset sales projected to include activities/sectors such
as retail gasoline, housing, and communications. The Government has also
emphasized that measures to improve the quality of public expenditures will
continue. The initial elimination of most subsidies will be extended and a
public investment program containing priority projects is being formulated.
19.       The difficulties of the transition have resulted in significant
declines in living standards for the population and have contributed to rising
unemployment.  To mitigate the effects of unemployment, the Government, in
1990, instituted unemployment grants for civil servants retrenched as a result
of rationalization of government agencies; and, in 1991, introduced a system
of severance pay financed by employers. All employers are required to trans-
fer the equivalent of five months' salary of dismissed workers to the Social
Security System, which in turn uses these funds to pay modest unemployment



- 6 -
benefits and to provide job information, job training, and job creation ser-
vices. The Government intends to restructure its current system of social
benefits to improve targeting and to provide support for self-employment, job
creation, and expanded job training. In order to identify vulnerable groups,
the Statistical Office has developed a measure of minimum living standards and
established an objective measure of poverty.  A number of nongovernmental
organizations, such as the Mongolian Red Cross and Save the Children, also
contribute to poverty alleviation. Women have equal access to education than
men and that is reflected in the enrollment rates. There is also some evi-
dence, yet to be confirmed, that women participation in the formal sector
labor force is increasing.
20.       Main Obiectives of the Bank's Program of Assistance.  With Mongolia
having absorbed the initial external shock and now moving towards implementing
systemic transformation, the central thrust of the Bank's country strategy is
to assist the country in transforming its economy (as articulated in the PFP
and explained before), in improving the quality of its public investment pro-
gram and in developing its private sector. To pursue this strategy, the Bank
is concentrating its efforts on the following fronts:
(a) First, since the effects of the external shock continue to affect
the economy, there is still a need for financing some critical
imports. Consequently, the present Mongolia Economic Transition
Support (METS) Credit ($20 million) intends to provide financing for
some of those critieal imports.  The further implementotion of the
reform program should reduce the need for import-financing credits
such as the PY 1992 Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) and the
proposed METS, and no future operation of this type is currently
envisaged.
(b) Second, the Bank will continue to monitor the economic events and
the balance of payments requirements of Mongolia to examine whether
a quick-disbursing, policy-based operation is required to complement
the assistance of the international community to the country.
Should a policy operation be necessary, it would be based, inter
alia, on the policy parameters included in the Policy Framework
Paper discussed by the Committee of the Whole on June 23, 1993 and
on the Statement of Economic Strategy for the Medium Term that is
part of this proposed operation.   Any eventual policy-based opera-
tion most likely would finance imports to the private sector. This
strategy of envisaging a policy based operation only on a contingent
basis results from observing the present situation of Mongolia,
whereas the continuation of the reform process and the consolidation
of the free foreign exchange market should lead to a sustainable
balance of payments situation, with requirements for external capi-
tal inflows mainly associated with new developmental projects or
private investment. In line with this, a shift to traditional
in estment and technical assistance operations is envisaged.
(c) Third, the areas of the public sector requiring priority investments
are being identified by the Goverment with assistance provided
under the TA Credit. Taking into account such identification, as
well as other donors' programs of assistance, the Bank has identi-



fied three areas where it expects to be able to make a substantial
contribution to the development of the country through investment
projects in the near future (FY 1994 and FY 1995)s namely, transpor-
tation, agriculture (mainly crop development) and petroleum explora-
tion. Advanced preparation of the transportation ($30 million) and
agricultural ($10 million) projects is underway. The Board presen-
tation of a petroleum exploration project ($5 million) is envisaged
for PY 1995. The preparation of such a project would start as a
part of the functions of a petroleum advisor financed under the TAC.
Possible areas of lending after 1995, for which necessary identifi-
cation work will be carried out over the near future, include
energy/power and noverty alleviation. In the case if energy, given
the magnitude (4 the investment seqvirements, it is likely that a
cofinancing arrangement with other donor(s) will need to be sought.
In this regard, contact is being maintained with Asian Development
Bank (AsDB) which is conducting studies and preparing projects in
this sector.
(6)  Fourth, future donor coordination will continue to be very impor-
tant. However, such coordination will increasingly focus around
Mongolia's long term investment and technical needs rather than
balance of payments and critical import requirements. For the time
being, an annual meeting in Tokyo has been identified by donors as
the most suitable format for such coordinat'on.
21.       The envisaged lending program is linked to the implementation of the
reform program. The proposed METS Credit is, to some extent, linked to a
satisfactory progress of the reform program. This is so because one of the
conditions of the credit would be the continuation of a free, unified exchange
rate system as the basis for counterpart payments by user agencies. As
explained above, the unification of the exchange rate represents a crucial
component of the reform program. Some of the sectoral conditions that would
be part of the investment projects are also linked to fundamental aspects of
the reform program. For example, the transport project is expected to include
agreements on tariff reforms which most likely would be part of the reform
program in the second year. The agricultural credit would depend on the con-
tinuation of satisfactory pricing policies for the agricultural sector. This-
is also a key aspect of the reform program. A possible Poverty Alleviation
Project, yet to be fully identified, would help the Government address the
negative side-effects of the reform program: unemployment and lack of access
to some social servicpe resulting from the restructuring of the economy and
the drastic cuts in public expenditures.
22.       To sum up, there are two projects currently under preparation:
Transport Rehabilitation (appraisal already completed); and Agriculture
(appraisal envisaged for 1994). The possible petroleum exploration project is
envisaged for FY 1995. Possible areas of lending for FY 1996 onward include
power and poverty alleviation.
23.       Economic and Sector Work.  Our Economic and Sector Work (ESW) has
included tasks necessary to deepen our understanding of Mongolia's development
issues and to support the lending program. Following the first Country
Economic Memorandum (Mongolia: Toward a Market Economy) in 1991, several work-



ing documents have been produced and shared with the Government of Mongolia:
Financing Education during Transition, Development of the Private Sector in an
Economy in Transition, Developing the Private Sector and Rationalizing Public
Expenditures, and Assessment of Vulnerable Groups in an Economy in Transition
(in cooperation with Save the Children), Review of Civil Service Remuneration
Policy (in cooperation with ODA-UK), Some of these working dosuments are
being processed for publication as DWecussion Papers. In addition, aeveral
studies have been conducted with support from the Technical Assistance Credit:
Management of the Mineral Sector of Mongolia, Engineering Review of the Coal
Industry of Mongolia, Orvanizational and Management Review of the Coal Indus-
try.
24.       Envisaged ESW tasks for the three forthcoming years are:  (a) an
annual updating of the PFP for, at least, two years in collaboration with the
IMF; (b) an update of the CEM, with emphasis on supply response, poverty and
public investment issues; (c) a Public Expenditure Review to complement pre-
sent efforts and to provide additional elements for the identification of
future lending operations; (d) an Energy Review to analyze both policy an-
investment priorities in the sector; and (e) a Review of the Social Sectors
(Health, Education, Social Security) to take stock of the social situation as
the reform program advances and to suggest concomitant policy responses.
25.       Policy Dialoaue.  The Bank's strategy has also been based on an
active policy dialogue. As mentioned before, a PFP has been produced and
discussed recently. As is usually the case, annual PFPs would follkw for, at
least, two consecutive years. The Bank will contribute to the PPPs, particu-
larly in the areas of public expenditures and private sector developments, on
vhich some informal CESW has been already carried out. The Bank has partici-
pated in IMP Stand-By and ESAP missions while the IMF has similarly partici-
pated in Bank missions for the preparation of the METS. There has been broad
donor coordination, especially with the AsDB.
26.       Cofinancina.  The Bank will actively seek opportunities for
cofinancing with other donors. The Technical Assistance Project has already
received cofinancing from the Japan Grant Facility. The proposed METS would
finance critical imports in parallel with the already approved AsDB Industrial
Program Loan. The envisaged Transport Rehabilitation Project would proceed in
parallel with financing from Japan for improvement of Mongolian Railways for
which funds have been already committed.
27.       IFC/FIAS.  After the first IFC/FIAS mission visited Mongolia in
1991, several longer term investment opportunities and privatization possibil-
ities vere identified. At this point, however, the Genghis Khan Hotel is the
project with best chance of going forward. The Government has now agreed to
IPC's conditions for involvement: privatization, market valuation (rather than
historical cost), and replacement of the Yugoslavian contractor. IPC staff
believes that the project has a good potential and will assist Mongolia in
identifying a new developer and new equity sources in order to create a pro-
posal that IFC can consider financing.
28.       MIGA.  Mongolia signed the MIGA Convention in June 1991 but has not
ratified it yet. MIGA can thus register investment projects in Mongolia,
thereby maintaining eligibility for coverage once Mongolia becomes a member,



but cannot issue guarantees for investments until all membership requirements
are fulfilled. There are no investment projects in Mongolia registered with
MIGA at this time.
29.       Key Policy Issues for Conaideration.  The thrust of the Bank's stra-
tegy is to support Mongolia's stabilization and transformation program. An
IDA lending program for an average of about $30 million per year is proposed.
The proposed METS would be the last credit to finance import requirements. A
future policy-based operation would take place only in the event that balance
of payment requirements make it imperative. A shift to traditional invest-
ments and te¢hnical assistance projects is therefore envisaged.
PART IIs THE PROJECT
30.       ObJectives.  The Project's principal objective is to finance imports
and technical assistance urgently needed by Mongolia in order to maintain and
develop key sectors of its economy. Specifically, the Project will finance
the import of equipment, materials, spare parts and other inputs needed in
coal and copper mining and the transport sector during the next 12 to 18
months. The goods and services to be financed under the Project have been
selected from a list of critical imports prepared by the user agencies con-
cerned. The Project's scope and content have been designed to take into
account assistance planned, or already underway, by other bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies. The Project includes technical and operational assistance
to the coal and copper sectors that are critical to their long term viability.
31.       Proiect Descrintion.  The proposed Project would finance:
(a) equipment, materials and spare parts for two large coal mines, which
together sccount for two thirds of Mongolia's coal output; technical
assistance required to undertake (i) a coal pricing study; and oper-
ational assistance needed to enhance (ii) coal sectoral planning and
mine management and operating practices;
(b) materials and spare parts for the Erdenet copper mine; and technical
assistance for (i) metallurgical testing to improve Erdenet's copper
grades; (ii) modernization of Erdenet's cost and financial account-
ing systems; and (iii) a review of the environmental aspects of
Erdenet's operations;
(c) materials, spare parts and maintenance and servicing of locomotives
for the Mongolia Railways (MR);
(d) gasoline dispensing pumps for the Mongoliau Petroleum Import Concern
to reduce leakages and waste of p. coleum products, mitigating envi-
ronmental hazards in the domestic .±stribution system; and
(e)  lubricants for agricultural and transport machinery to meet
Mongolia's import requirements in this area and to improve the pro-
ductivity of the machinery involved.
32.       User agencies woulci receive imported equipment, materials and spare
parts against payment in local currency (Tugriks) of their c.i.f. cost at the



- 10 -
prevailing unified, free market exchange rate. These payment arrangements
will also apply to the technical assistance elements.
33.       Pro1ect Imilementation.  The Ministry of Finance would have overall
implementation responsibilities for the project. Procurement/disbursement
matters for goods would be handled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI). MTI's performance during implementation of the Economic Rehabilitation
Credit (Credit 2320-MOG), now almost completed, was satisfactory and its proj-
ect unit and staff are still in place. The Technical Assistance components of
the projects would be handled by each user agency, in coordination with the
line ministry and IDA. Since this project would finance critically needed
imports, and would contribute to the success of the stabilization and reform
program under implemantation. an understanding was reached during appraisal on
advancing the procurement p ,ceas in order to expedite disbursements.
34.       Pro-lect Sustainabilitv.  The implementation of the adjustment pro-
gram included in the PFP which this operation would support, and of the spe-
cific conditions and technical assistance included in this credit would
improve the financial situation of the end-users as well as their institu-
tional capability.
35.       Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA 9perations.  The proposed project
draws and builds on the experience gained through the Economic Rehabilitation
Credit (ERC) which also financed critical imports in key sectors. Experience
under the ERC, approved in December 1991 and now almost fully disbursed, con-
firmed the utility of the £hort-term technical assistance provided to facili-
tate international competitive bidding (which is being pursued), the advan-
tages of a well-prepared procurement plan and monitoring system, and the need
to ensure that local currency counterpart funds for project-financed goods and
services are paid by user agencies when the goods and/or services are
received. Another important lesson was that timely implementation of techni-
cal assistance is crucial to secure the expected positive impact of some the
components.
36.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Following the approval of the IMn
ESAF, and the related PFP in late June, the rationale for IDA involvement in
the proposed project is as follows. First, the ESAP program assumes a con-
tinuing flow of quick-disbursing concessional resources required to restore
and improve the efficiency of Mongolia's economic and social infrastructure.
Such resources are also needed to expedite timely implementation of the autho-
rities' structural reform efforts, while preparation of the medium and longer-
term sectoral strategies (including priority development projects) provided
for in the PFP is underway. Second, IDA involvement through this project
would help Mongolia fina-^e its overall balance of payments requirements for
1993-95 which include the goods and services under this proposed project. The
PFP identified the overall financing requirements for 1993-96, amounting to
$226 million for 1993, 203 million for 1994, 170 million for 1995 and 155 for
1996. Most of the financing sources for 1993 and 1994 have been already iden-
tified. Third, and not least important, IDA involvement, together with that
of the Asian Development Bank, is expected to catalyze similar assistance to
Mongolia from several bilateral agencies, as manifested during the third
Mongolia Assistance Group meeting, co-chaired by the Bank and the Government
of Japan, held in Tokyo in September of this year.



- 11 -
37.       Aareed Actions.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Borrower will: (a) collect from the end-users the local currency equivalent
of the foreign currency costs of goods (cost, insurance, and freight--c.i.f.)
and/or services, at the unified, interbank floating exchange rate prevailing
at the time the goods delivered to the country have been cleared by customs or
when the services have been paid by IDA; (b) complete the coal pricing study
by June 1994. The study's recommendations will then be discussed x h IDA,
and the Borrower will take steps for their implementation; (c) adjust coal
prices, on a quarterly basis, to keep pace with domestic inflation, starting
in March 1994 and until the recommendations of the coal pricing study are
implemented. Adjustments will be based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI);
(d) adjust domestic prices of gasoline, diesel and lubricants to reflect
international prices and exchange rate fluctuations starting in March 1994;
a-d (e) carry out its Economic Strategy for the medium term in a manner satis-
factory to the Association.
38.       Proiect Cost and Financing.  The project's estimated total cost is
$25.4 million equivalent, of which $20.0 million would be in foreign exchange.
The IDA Credit would finance all foreign exchange costs. Foreign costs would
cover the import of goods and the provision of consultant services. Local
costs would cover expenditures on domestic transportation and storage of the
imported goods, installation costs (in the case of the gasoline pumps), and
import duties of 15 percent. Foreign costs are based on international pro-
curement prices, recent prices in other Asian countries and historic cost for
goods bought from the former Soviet Union under barter arrangements. The
costs of consultants' advisory services are based on typical current costs for
such assignments. Contracts for all imported items are expected to be signed
during the next six months.
39.       Procurement.  All goods and services will be procured in accordance
with IDA Procurement Guidelines. All new equipment items were grouped accord-
ing to their characteristics into five bid packages. Three procurement modes
were selected after careful scrutiny of the requirements and taking into
account the best interests of the project:
*    Four of the bid packages were considered appropriate for purchase by
international competitive bidding (ICB), for approximately
$12.2 million or 61 percent of the credit;
*    The fifth bid package involves highly specialized equipment under
smaller coutracts, most efficiently purchased using limited inter-
national bidding (LIB) procedure, for $0.5 million or 2.5 percent of
the total;
*    All the remaining goods to be purchased under the project are
urgently needed spare parts for existing equipment manufactured in
the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and for major overhaul
of locomotives and wheel sets by CIS contractors (readily accessible
through the same rail system) specialized in this sort of work.
Since there is no other practical alternative, these spare parts
would be purchased directly from the CIS vendors of the original
equipment. Similarly, sole source contracting for the overhaul work



- 12 -
of the locomotives would be followed. Goods and services to be
purchased directly amount to about $5.4 million.
40.       Draft technical specifications have already been prepared for the
ICB and LIB bid packages. Similarly, the direct purchase contracts have been
drafted, in a format acceptable to IDA. These would be reviewed and finalized
by MTI in collaboration with the user agencies. All contracts would be sub-
ject to prior review by IDA. Up to $2 million of the eligible imports, for
which expenditures were made after completion of appraisal (July 8, 1993),
would be eligible for retroactive financing. Thi would allow urgent procure-
ment actions prior to effectiveness of the credit to proceed without delay.
41.       Two sets of technical service contracts are presently envisaged for
$1.9 million, or 9.5 percent of the credit. The first set involves the assis-
tance to the coal sector for: (a) outside expert services to upgrade mining
operations in the Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal mines; and (b) consultant
services to undertake a nationwide coal pricing study. The second set is for
the Erdenet copper complex, involving three contracts for consultant services
to develop% (a) a metallurgical testing program; (b) an environmental action
plan; and (c) a cost and financial accounting system. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with IDA's Guidelines.
42.       Environmental Issues.  The Government is preparing an Environmental
Action Plan (EAP) for submission to IDA in early 1994. The EAP will focus on
measures to: protect the environment from the negative aspects of miningS
combat soil erosion; and reduce air and water pollution in urban areas. The
phasing out of subsidies on fodder transport currently underway should also
result in the relocation of livestock to areas best suited as pastureiland.
With external assistance, efforts are also underway to foster improved use of
forestry resources through the promotion of reforestation and better forestry
management. To reduce air pollution, "scrubbers" will be installed in coal-
fired electricity plants by end-1993. The present project would have a posi-
tive impact on the environment through the replacement of old gasoline pumps
and through the TA component to study specific ways to solve existing and/or
potential problems at the tailing pond near the copper plant.
43.       Protect Benefits.  The project, designed to support Mongolia's
stabilization and reform program, would help maintain and increase essential
output and services in key sectors of the economy that are crucial to the
resumption of growth, particularly the minerals and coal sectors. Specific
benefits include: increase in coal production; formulation of a rational and
efficient coal pricing mechanism; diversification of supplier sources for the
copper company; introduction of ICB at the copper company; maximization of
copper concentrate recovery; introduction of modern cost, financial, and man-
agement information systems at the copper company; development of a Plan of
Action regarding environmental issues (at the tailings pond); increased effi-
ciency of the railways system through improved availability of spare parts and
reduction in backlog for servicing locomotives; and elimination of leakages at
gasoline pump stations.
44.      RIsks.  There are three types of risks in this Project.  First, as
is usually the case with countries undergoing deep adjustments, performance in
the implementation of the stabilization and reform program agreed with the IMP



- 13 -
and the World Bank and reflected in the PFP could be less than fully satisfac-
tory. That would undermine the results expected from this project. The com-
mitment and initial actions shown so far by the Government in the implemen-
tation of the program, however, provide assurance for going ahead with this
operation. Second, payment of local currency counterpart funds to the Govern-
ment by the user agencies concerned may be delayed or inadequate. This risk
is minimized by Government's commitment to: (a) implement appropriate
price/tariff policies that would improve the cash flow situation of user com-
paniest and (b) improve management of public expenditure which would allow use
of already allocated budgetary funds for priority activities, including the
financing of counterpart funds. This is a subject of continuing dialogue with
the Government. Third, of the risks connected with the different project com-
ponents, the foremost ares (a) lack of implementation of price adjustments
for coal which would create financial difficulties for the coal company. This
risk is minimized since a policy of price adjustments is being followed
already; (b) delays in the delivery of materials and/or performance of ser-
vices to the MR. Given the availability of financing, this is not considered
a major risk; (c) insufficient follow-up of the conclusions of the TA, includ-
ing the MIS work, by end-users. Given the interest shown by the end-users on
the TA components, this risk should not be considerable; and (d) delays in the
installation of some of the gasoline dispensing pumps. Installing pumps is
relatively simple. Moreover, according to the bidding documents, some pilot
installations should be performed by the seller.
45.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 28, 1993



- 14 -                          Schedule A
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
($ million)
Local        Poreign          Total
Estimated Proiect Cost
Goods
Coal                                       1.2            4.0            5.2
Copper                                     1.2            4.1            5.3
Railways                                   1.3            5.0            6.3
Lubricants                                 0.6            2.0            2.6
Gasoline pumps                             0.5            1.0            1.5
Subtotal                                              16.1           20.9
Technical Assistance
Copper                                                    0.9            0.9
Coal                                                      1.0            1.0
Base cost                              4.8            18.0           22.8
Contintencies                              0.6            2.0            2.6
Total Proiect Cost                     5.4
Financin8 Plan
IDA                                       -              20.0           20.0
End-users                                 5.4             _              5.4
Customs duties La                         (5.0)                         (5.0)
Freight and others                        (0.4)                         (0.4)
Total                                  5.4            20.0.4
/a Assumes a levy of 25 percent to make provision for the 10 percent sales
tax.



- 15 -B
Page 1
ECONOMIC TRANSITION 8UPPORT CREDIT
Procurement Arragements
($ million)
ICB       LIs     Other      Total
Goods
Equipment, spare parts and servlces
for mining and railways; dispensing
pumps and high-speed oil                    12.2       0.5      10.8IB    23.5
(12.2)     (0.5)    (5.4)    (18.1)
Consultancies
Technical Assistance                           -                   1.91b     1.9
(1.9)     (1.9)
Total                                   ,12.2       O.       12.7      25.4
(12.2)     (0.5)    (7.3)    (20.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Contingencies have been prorated.
]A Direct Purchasing of railways spare parts and overhauls. Local costs are
also included.
Ib Consultants selected following Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
($ million)
Categories                                        Amount     2 of expenditures
to be financed
Goods
Equipment, spare parts and services for
mining and railwayst dispensing pumps
and high-speed  oil                              18.1      100S of foreign
expenditures
Consultents                                         1.9      1OOS
Total                                         20.



- 16 -                          Schedule a
Page 2
IDA FY                                    1994                              1995
Annual                                    15.0 5.0
Cumulative                                15.0                              20.0



- 17 -                          Schedule C
MONGOLIA
ECONOMIC TRANSITION SUPPORT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Proiect ProcessinR
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare:              4 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                Government with the assistance of IDA
staff and consultants
(c)  First Presentation to IDA mission:  April 1993
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure:         June 1993
(e)  Negotiations:                       September 1993
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:      November 1993
(g)  Expected Project Completion:        June 30, 1995
(h)  Relevant PCRs and PPARs2            None
The project was prepared by Carlos Elbirt (Task Manager), Hongjoo Hahm,
Christopher Wardell, and J. Chanmugam (Consultant). The peer reviewer was
Paul Cadario. The Division Chief is Zafer Ecevit and the Department Director
is Shahid Javed Burki.



I
IBID 2298:
-RUSSI\ EEAON  - &' . , 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                         RUSSIAN FEDERATION    7
ULMNM                                                 H 'V                                                                                                                     r  
I                                                                                                                                    0Q9B 'LGAN                              CHINA
c..'~DZAVHAN~ 
i   o   /   OVX   ~2-'H   USTAV                *     e      A HENGAY                                                   H TDORNOD  r.Im             
~~~~~~~OVD'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-79b~
r                              0000                        en\          a + °-*EA\ R4B UUN-URT
L «en ' '. 4S'' _ OHBAt , <-o en T - - ° ,,  AATAR                                                             -
CHINA                                                                           At            -
GOWi-ALTAY                                        RHAN-  /  VO AN
'  ¶                           '~~~~~~DUNDGOVI
-AYANHONGOR *                                            .-             DA.b"C,0                             MONG OLIA
' (;>   .    ~       -      ,               .                '       DORNOGOVIR
0  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
\ O } eP e .. ~~~~~~~~~~DALANDZADGAD og......f^
ICLOMES    50  100  150 200                                  &                       -r      OvmOoW
MILES 0  S0      100   150   2C0                                                                              E
o SELECTED TO/NS / VILLAGES            -RAILROADS
* AYMAG CAPITFAS                        + AIRFIELDS
__ liS NATIONAL CAPITAL              4 INTERNAT1ONALAIRPORT
Th. 9940 Sow. =.K .a,b- FAIRVWEA. HER ROADS, TRACKS OR TRAILS                                                                                                                - AYMAG BOUNDARIES
-ALL-WEATHER HARD OR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS  -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AISEr IWr



