VN
CREDIT NUMBER 2551 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Transition Support Project)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       c-ieLsø%^              , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2551 MOG
DEVEXOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   AJoJQi^bG6 P   t, 1993, between MONGOLIA
(the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
mAssociation").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLB I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
"General Condition;') constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the followaing additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "ECCw means the Erdenet Copper Concern (Mongolian and
Russian Mining Joint Venture), a legal entity established and
operating under the laws and regulations of the Borrower pursuant to
its Charter dated June 5, 1991, or any successor thereto;
(b)   "Implementing Agencies" means the Borrower's departments
and ageicies, and other legal entities, entrusted by the Borrower
with the implementation of the Project or any part thereof, namely,
MOF, MTI, MPZ, MGNR and ECC (as said terms are herein defined);
(c)   "MFE* means the Borrower's Ministry of Fuel and Energy
or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(d)   "MGNR" means the Borrower"s Ministry of Geology and
Natural Resources or any successor thereto;
(e)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any
successor thereto;
(f) "MR" means the Mongolian and Russian Joint-Stock
Railways, a legal entity established and operating under the laws
and regulations of the Borrower pursuant to its Charter dated
June 5, 1949, or any successor thereto;
(g)   "MTIN means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and
Industry or any successor thereto;
(h)   "PIC" means the Petroleum Import Concern, a legal entity
established and operating under the laws and regulations of the
Borrower pursuant to its Charter dated February 22, 1992, or any
successor thereto; and
(i)    Project Beneficiaries" means the    departments and
agencies of the Borrower, and other legal entities selected for
participation in the Project by the Borrower, namely, ECC, MFE, MR,
and PIC.
ARTICLZ II
The credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing February 1, 2004 and ending August 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-4-
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
the Implementing Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with   appropriate  engineering,  administrative  and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.


﻿(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C.1, and
C.2 of the Project through MOF, MTI, and MFE, and shall cause ECC to
carry out Parts C.3, C.4, and C.5 of the Project, all in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause
each of the Implementing Agencies to maintain, separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
their respective parts of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)    furnish  to  the   Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association  shall  have   reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ECC, MR, and PIC:
(a) To take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
(b) To carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c) At all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall
have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolution of any
of the Project Beneficiaries or for the suspension of any of their
operations, so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01, 4.01, and 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement# whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Seition 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Oktyabriin 7
Ulaanbaatar
Mongolia
Telex: 719-79241
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
MONGOLIA
By               1.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AcK-ink Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of thc Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             SDR Eguivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Equipment, spare         11,500,000      100% of foreign
parts, equipment                         expenditures
servicing, vehicles,
and materials
(2)   Consultants'              1,350,000      100%
services
(3)   Unallocated               1,350,000
TOTAL                     14,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower.
(b)   The term "materials" means rail track accessories, high-
speed lubricants, and such other items as may be agreed upon by the
Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,400,000 may
be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1993.


﻿- 10 -
SCHDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
operation, maintenance and development of its mining and transport
sectors through the financing of imports and institutional
strengthening.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Development of Mining Sector
1.    Provision of equipment, vehicles, and spare parts to MPE
for the Baga Nuur and Sharyn Gol coal mines.
2.    Provision of equipment, vehicles, and spare parts to ECC
for the Erdenet copper mine.
Part B:     Development of Transport Sector
1.    Provision  of materials   and  spare  parts  to, and
maintenance and servicing of locomotives of, MR for the efficient
operation of the railway system.
2.    Provision of: (a) gasoline and diesel dispensing pumps
to PIC to reduce leakages and waste of petroleum products and
mitigate environmental hazards in the domestic distribution system;
and (b) lubricants to PIC.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Carrying  out  of a   coal pricing   study  aimed  at
identifying and recommending efficient approaches to coal pricing.
2.    Provision of rperational assistance needed to enhance
coal sectoral planning and mine management and operating practices.
3.    Metallurgical testing of ECC's copper concentrate to
improve copper content grades.
4.    Upgrading of ECC's cost and financial accounting, and
management information, systems.


﻿- 11 -
5.    Carrying out an environmental review of ECC's tailings
pond particularly regarding toxic dusts and dam stability.
* * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Comipetitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" publiched by the Bank
in May 1992 (the "Guidelines").
(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two (2) pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable
to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured within the territory
of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. Vehicles under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of five


﻿- 13 -
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2. Contracts for spare parts and equipment servicing shall be
awarded after direct 5iegotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2. The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified
for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Emoloyment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ and cause ECC to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
"Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.


﻿14 -
SCHEUL 4
Implmntation Program
1.    The Borrower shall implement the Project or cause the Project
to be implemented, under the qeneral supervision and guidance of
HOF, as follows:
(a)   Parts A and 8 of the Project shall be carried out by
NTI.
(b)   Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project shall be carried out by
MFE.
(c)   Parts C.3, C.4, and C.5 shall be carried out by ECC, in
consultation with MGNR, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for the payment by the Project Beneficiaries of the
cost of goods and technical assistance provided to them under the
Project. Such payments shall be made in local currency in amounts
equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of said goods and technical
assistance calculated on the basis of Cost-Insurance-Freight (CIF)
value and contract value respectively at the free market inter-bank
exchange rate.
3.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   Undertake and, by June 30, 1994, complete a study on
coal pricing in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   discuss the results and recommendations of the said
study with the Association;
(c)   undertake   appropriate  steps   to   implement   the
recommendations of the said study taking into account
comments, if any, by the Association; and
(d)   commencing on March 31, 1994 and until such time as the
obligations under the preceding sub-clauses (a) through
(c) have been performed, make adjustments in the price
of coal, on a quarterly basis, to keep pace with
domestic inflation measured by consumer price index


﻿- 15 -
(CPI) estimated by the Borrower's State Statistical
Office.
4.    The Borrower shall, commencing on March 31, 1994, adjust, on
a quarterly basis, the domestic prices of petroleum fuels and
lubricants taking into account movements in the exchange rate and
international prices in accordance with a formula agreed with the
Association.
5.    The  Borrower shall carry out     its economic reforms in
accordance with its medium term economic strategy as agreed with the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true icopy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


