Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17262
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2001-LA
DECEMBER 23, 1997
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =  New Kip (KN)
At appraisal          =  US$1 = KN 450
At completion (6/31/97) =  US$1 = KN 1081.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -  Asian Development Bank
ASEAN          -  Association of South East Asian Nations
CTAs           -  Chief Technical Advisers
DCA            -  Development Credit Agreement
EDL            -  State Electrical Power Corporation
EPFL           -  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne
GOL            -  Government of Laos
ICB            -  International Competitive Bidding
ICC            -  International Chamber of Commerce
ICR            -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA            -  International Development Association
KKU            -  Khoen Kaen University
MIS            -  Management Information System
MOE            -  Ministry of Education
NPI            -  National Polytechnic Institute
NPIPO          -  NPI Project Office
PCR            -  Project Completion Report
SDC            -  Swiss Development Cooperation
TA             -  Technical Assistant
TEC            -  Tender Evaluation Committee
UNESCO         -  United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
September to June
Vice President:        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:              Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:        Alan Ruby, EASED
Task Manager:          Kathryn T. Johnson, EASED



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17262
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2001-LA
DECEMBER 23, 1997
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =  New Kip (KN)
At appraisal          =  US$1 = KN 450
At completion (6/31/97) =  US$1 = KN 1081.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -  Asian Development Bank
ASEAN          -  Association of South East Asian Nations
CTAs           -  Chief Technical Advisers
DCA            -  Development Credit Agreement
EDL            -  State Electrical Power Corporation
EPFL           -  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne
GOL            -  Government of Laos
ICB            -  International Competitive Bidding
ICC            -  International Chamber of Commerce
ICR            -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA            -  International Development Association
KKU            -  Khoen Kaen University
MIS            -  Management Information System
MOE            -  Ministry of Education
NPI            -  National Polytechnic Institute
NPIPO          -  NPI Project Office
PCR            -  Project Completion Report
SDC            -  Swiss Development Cooperation
TA             -  Technical Assistant
TEC            -  Tender Evaluation Committee
UNESCO         -  United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
September to June
Vice President:        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:              Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:        Alan Ruby, EASED
Task Manager:          Kathryn T. Johnson, EASED



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Suminary
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Overview                                          1
B. Project Objectives and Description                               2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                             11
E. Project Sustainability                                          12
F. IDA/SDC Performance                                             13
G. Borrower Performance                                            14
H. Assessment of Outcome                                           14
I. Future Operations                                               15
J. Key Lessons Learned                                             15
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments                                   17
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits                               19
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                        19
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  19
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation                20
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operations                    21
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project                              21
Table 8a: Project Costs                                            23
Table 8b: Project Financing                                        23
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                              23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements            25
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                             25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                 26
ANNEX:
Borrower Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report      27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
CREDIT 2001-LA
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers the National Polytechnic Institute
Project, for which Credit 2001-LA in the arnount of US$3.5 million equivalent was approved on
April 11, 1989, and made effective on August 24, 1989.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1996. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April 8, 1997.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Swiss government.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Rene Welter (Consultant) and Ms. Omporn Regel
(EASED) under the direction of Ms. Kathryn Johnston, EASED. The ICR was reviewed by Mr.
Alan Ruby, Unit Manager, EASED.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, November 1996. It is based on material in the project files as well as those received
during completion mission. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting
on the draft ICR.  The borrower's comments are included as an annex to the ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
(Credit 2001-LA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives.
(i)   The project supported the Government's desire to reduce shortages of professional
manpower in Laos by training engineers in the basic disciplines required for development.
Specific objectives included: (a) increasing capacity to supply engineers; (b) improving the
planning, management and quality of existing engineering training programs; (c) promoting the
integration and coordination of higher technician training programs; and (d) initiating analysis of
issues in the education sector.
Implementation Experience.
(ii)   Project implementation was problematic throughout much of implementation, and donors
often found themselves at cross-purposes with each other and the borrower. SDC and IDA were
undertaking their first major collaboration in education sector financing and had different
expectations of the project and its outcomes. While IDA administered the project (led the
supervision, vetted procurement and controlled the flow of credit and grant funds) IDA financing
accounted for about one-fifth of the total investment. IDA's monitoring of the project was
somewhat lax at times and supervision continuity was poor. For its part, Laos was a relatively
inexperienced borrower and the implementing agency was completely new to IDA procedures. It
was not until fairly late in implementation, with the project on the verge of collapse, that all three
parties pulled together to cooperate, establish a common agenda, and meet the ambitious
deadlines that had been set.
Results.
(iii)  Given the severity of start-up and implementation problems, results in most areas were
remarkably good. Although IDA's expectations of improving higher technician training
programs were not fulfilled (being undermined by insufficient preparation and commitment from
the other two partners) major objectives relating to improving professional engineering training
were achieved. Despite severe setbacks, the physical plant at the National Polytechnic Institute
was completed with only a year's delay. The campus is impressive. Equipment is installed and
appropriate to the level of instruction. Staff have been trained in its utilization and upkeep.
Routine maintenance has been institutionalized with the establishment of the Technical Services
Department, which also has considerable capacity for income generation. Curricula for the three
technical engineering fields were developed and the programs are operational. Almost without



*                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
exception, the technical assistance provided was excellent and made a major contribution to both
the academic and administrative dimensions of the institution. Learning materials and, in
particular, the lecture manuscripts developed to accompany the coursework, have made a major
contribution to the quality of the teaching.
Sustainability.
(iv)   Prospects for sustainability are good and will remain so provided that a favorable
institutional context, relevant programs and adequate hunan resources in both academic and
administrative roles, and adequate financing are maintained. On one hand, the merger of NPI
with four other related institutions and re-creation as the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture
under the newly-created National University of Laos had an initially negative impact on some
project gains. On the other, the experience gained under the project in developing operational
policies and procedures has been very useful in informing the larger university-building effort.
While immediate or significant changes to the salary structure is unlikely and differences with
the private sector remain large, the new facilities and equipment provide considerable potential to
generate income through testing and offering services to the private sector. This would provide
needed additional income for the faculty and the institution. Even so, an annual shortfall will
remain which the Government is committed to provide.
Findings and Lessons Learned.
(v)    There are significant and lessons for project preparation and design, co-financing,
procurement, and supervision arrangements. Support for institutional development at the tertiary
and higher technician levels necessitates sustained assistance by the partner agencies, preferably
in the context of a comprehensive sectoral dialogue. In order to be properly grounded, such
support requires a thorough understanding of the policy framework, labor market interface, and
extant service provision structure ex ante. In order to be sustainable, it needs mechanisms for
generating information about the environment and potential linkage partners ex post. Academic
training programs for staff may require support for language training as well. Salary and income
generating issues must be squarely faced, although they cannot always be solved within the
context of a donor-financed operation. Careful study is needed whenever IDA agrees to
participate as a minority financier; initial agreement upon the full ramifications of IDA's role is
essential. Where the implementation process is transparent, the dialogue candid and the rationale
valid, flexible application of procurement guidelines is merited. When the opposing conditions
apply, communication is weak, and task manager turnover is high, the transaction costs of
implementing a project increase exponentially. In the case of the NPI Project, IDA spent over
US$800,000 to administer a $3.5 million credit, not an especially efficient use of resources,
however successful the outcome.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
(Credit 2001-LA)
Project Identity
Project name:    National Polytechnic Institute Project
Credit No.:    Cr. 2001-LA
Country:     Lao People's Democratic Republic
Sector:     Education
Subsector:     Higher Education
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND OVERVIEW
1.    The project supported a newly-created engineering polytechnic in a country that was
starting to undergo economic transformation and the accompanying shift in the education
paradigm. It represented the first large infusion of donor-financed capital into the education
system and was the first major collaboration between the SDC and IDA in the education sector.
The dialogue between the donors and the Government was nascent and the data available to the
two project generating missions was scant. Because of initial reluctance on the part of GOL to
borrow from IDA for human resource development, the SDC provided a Grant which funded the
bulk of activities. This left IDA in the unenviable position of administering a project while
contributing only 20% of the funds. In short, the project explored new territory with a new team
which did not always share the same vision of the process or the outcome. Given this challenge,
it is hardly surprising that certain aspects of the project proved difficult and time consuming -- if
not outright impossible -- to implement. Both preparation and implementation phases were
periods of learning and adaptation for all concerned. The successful completion of the project
and achievement of most of its objectives, the increasing fluency of the trilateral dialogue, and
the subsequent trilateral investment operation in basic education is testimony to the lessons
learned.  Toward the end of the implementation period (1995), the institution -- which had
become the foremost tertiary-level institution in the country and had operated since its inception
as a self-standing institute under the auspices of MOE -- was absorbed into the newly-created
National University of Laos (NUOL). Possibilities for the sustainability of benefits looked
promising, provided it was not undermined or overwhelmed by the new administrative set-up.



2
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.    Policy and Sector Context. The National Polytechnic Institute (NPI), Laos' first
institution of higher learning, was created as the result of an agreement between the Government
of Laos (GOL), UNESCO and UNDP in March 1984. It became operational with the arrival of
the first Chief Technical Adviser 6 months later. During the initial 5-year phase, the former
Soviet Union entered into a bilateral cooperative agreement with GOL to provide technical
assistance to NPI, and as a result, 5 Soviet experts came to NPI for a period of 30 months to
support Lao staff and students in their respective areas of teaching expertise (civil, mechanical,
and electrical engineering and basic science). Parallel to these developments a UNESCO/World
Bank Identification Mission took place in 1985. Three years later (mid-1988), a joint Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC)/World Bank team appraised the project. This led to the
signing of an IDA Credit (US$3.5 million equivalent) and a Swiss Grant (US$ 13.0 million
equivalent) in April 1989. Although engineering education was not a priority for either donor,
the project represented a hopeful first step in a longer term dialogue on human resource
development with the newly transitioning economy of Lao PDR. When the Government began
to express interest in a more comprehensive reform of the post-secondary education sub-sector in
the early 1990s, the Asian Development Bank provided support to consolidate university-level
education.
3.    Rationale and Objectives. The NPI Project supported the Government's objective of
reducing shortages of professional manpower in Laos by training engineers in the basic
disciplines required for development. Specifically, the project was to: (a) increase capacity to
supply the needed engineers; (b) improve the planning, management and quality of existing
engineering training programs; (c) promote the integration and coordination of higher technician
training programs; and on a more general level, (d) initiate analysis of issues in the education
sector.
4.    Description.  It was assumed that both engineering and higher technician training
programs would be brought under a single administration under the Ministry of Education and
supported through the project. Over a six-year period the project was to provide: (a) general
and specialized facilities; (b) equipment; (c) furniture; (d) instructional materials; (e) overseas
fellowships for staff; and (f) technical assistance. It would upgrade existing and create new
specialized facilities enabling NPI to teach four degree-level specializations (electrical,
mechanical, and civil engineering, and economics/management). At project completion, NPI
would have the capacity to train about 700 engineers under a six-year program (1 preparatory
year and 5 years of engineering) and 1,100 higher technicians under 2-3 year programs, as well
as provide in-service courses for professional engineers. In order to facilitate upgrading of
existing staff and improve the quality of NPI's management, technical assistance was to be
supplied through a link university -- the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL)
-- where a high percentage of NPI staff were scheduled to study. As a prelude to possible future
investments in education, funds were provided for studies on: (a) education finance; (b)
efficiency and quality issues in higher technical areas; and (c) efficiency of secondary education,
particularly in vocational and technical education. The project was to be administered by a
project unit established under the Ministry of Education (MOE) and monitored by a joint
NPI/Industry Council comprising representatives from central and line ministries and industry.



3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Provision of NPI Facilities and Equipment
5.    Architectural Consultants and Design of Facilities.  Co-financing arrangements
required that a Swiss firm of architects and engineers (hereafter referred to as the Consultants) be
selected to plan the facilities and insure site supervision during construction. Formulation of a
contract acceptable to SDC, IDA and the Consultants was the cause of a nearly three-year delay
in implementation (March 1989-February 1992). SDC and the Consultants proposed that designs
be carried out in Switzerland based upon Swiss fee standards. IDA felt that this was not justified
in the Lao situation and did little to transfer skills to the Borrower staff. Inexperience coming to
terms with a mutually acceptable contractual arrangement under the co-financing agreements
exacerbated the situation. Work proceeded smoothly and without further delay after a contract
based on Bank Guidelines was signed in July 1992. Nevertheless, the final cost for consultant
services was US$2.2 million equivalent, more than five times higher than the US$0.4 million
with contingencies estimated at Appraisal. These fees were paid entirely out of the Swiss Grant.
Despite the high costs (entirely justified according to Swiss professional fee scales) and the
distance, the Consultant's work was of high professional quality in both concept and execution.
6.   Construction: Phase I and Litigation. ICB tendering and evaluation took place during
the latter part of 1993, with 5 bids registered. There was a divergence of opinion between the
Tender Evaluation Committee (TEC), which recommended award of contract to the lowest
evaluated bidder -- a German-Thai company -- and the Government of Laos, which favored the
second lowest bidder -- a Thai contractor. At the last minute IDA inexplicably concurred with
GOL, despite evidence that internal reviews within the Bank had earlier agreed with the TEC's
recommendation.' Although the contract was awarded to the Thai contractor in March 1994, no
progress was made and, after a few months, it became apparent that this firm did not have the
financial wherewithal to fulfill its contractual obligations. By March 1995, only 5% progress
had been achieved and the contract was terminated. The contractor then filed for arbitration with
the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in Paris. These proceedings dragged on
throughout the remainder of the implementation period, albeit without further impact upon
implementation itself. During hearings held in Vientiane in May 1997, the defendant did not
appear, and a judgment in favor of GOL was issued the following month, thus ending the legal
dimensions of the matter.
7.    Construction: Phase II.  Following contract termination, the NPI Project Office
(NPIPO) and the Consultants had to reassess work progress, prepare new tender documents, and
re-tender, which took from March to August 1995. The second ICB resulted in three bids. The
uncontested award went to the lowest evaluated bidder, an Australian contractor, who, in
addition to his bid, had submitted estimated unit costs for labor and materials. Although the
contractor selected eventually produced work of acceptable quality, overall management was
inadequate, with site management resolutely deficient. While satisfactory financial and other data
'In responding to a draft of this report, the NPIPO noted that the finn which had been rated as the 'lowest evaluated
bidder' by the TEC was later found to have insufficient 'financial conditions' to be regarded as qualified. This led to the
eleventh-hour rejection of the German-Thai firm and the selection of the next lowest evaluated bidder.



4
had been provided by the umbrella firm at tendering, the subsidiary operating in Laos had, in
fact, very limited credit. This resulted in enormous day-to-day problems and delays in materials
delivery.
8.    Civil Works: Overall Assessment. The final cost of civil works was US$4.5 million,
compared to the figure of US$3.6 million estimated at appraisal. Higher costs reflected both
delays and additional boarding facilities and staff housing. Despite severe complications,
cumulative delays, and higher-than-expected costs, the buildings themselves reflect work well
done. The architectural concept is appropriate. Deceptively simple on first appearance, it belies
great sophistication and links a series of disparate, older, rehabilitated buildings into a unified
campus. The new special purpose labs and workshops, communal buildings and dormitories are
all well-designed. Regardless of the reservations expressed about the construction process, the
standard achieved is both excellent and appropriate to the level of the institution. Two aspects of
the construction process should be singled out for special praise: (a) the high quality of foremen
in several of the building trades (electrical, mechanical, structural) and (b) the outstanding
construction supervision by the site engineer, a member of the Consultants' team.
9.    Equipment.  Construction difficulties made it virtually impossible to synchronize
equipment procurement with building completion. NPIPO, with assistance from EPFL
consultants and NPI staff, began preparing equipment lists in 1992, and were ready to tender a
year later.  When construction commenced under the first contractor, ICB  equipment
procurement was called for the three specializations (mechanical, electrical, and civil) and the
technical services department (maintenance). Bids were received. However, when that contract
was terminated, procurement was necessarily suspended and was not resumed until civil works
recommenced under the second contractor. Fortunately, despite more than two years of elapsed
time since the original bid validity period, the manufacturers/suppliers elected to stand by their
original price quotations (with only very modest price increases for inflation), and IDA
concurred that the process should proceed. This avoided further delay and the additional costs
that would have resulted from a second round of ICB tendering. Most of the equipment was
eventually delivered during the first quarter of 1997, in close conjunction with completion of
labs/workshops and the scheduled visit of EPFL technical specialists who came to commission
the equipment and to train NPI staff in its use. In the final analysis, equipment procurement was
very successful. The presence of long-term technical assistance from EPFL throughout the
project helped to smooth the situation and ensure that equipment specified and selected was
appropriate to the level of the institution and to its intended use. One major and potentially very
positive outcome of equipment procurement was the creation of the Maintenance Production
Center, which is described in detail below.
10.   Furniture. Lists were prepared well in advance of ordering. Furniture was supplied
through both international and local sources. That supplied through international sources was of
inferior quality -- despite ISO standards and provision of samples and photos -- and, on occasion,
arrived late.  Some laboratory furniture did not arrive until May 1997, which further affected
commissioning of equipment and related training. By contrast, experience with locally-produced
furniture was better, and the furniture itself of better quality. In hindsight, it would have been



5
preferable to order laboratory furniture and -- possibly -- workshop furniture from local
suppliers. Actual equipment and furniture costs were somewhat below Appraisal estimates.
Provision of Technical Assistance
11.   EPFL Team. The EPFL team was headed by two Chief Technical Advisers (CTAs) who
served in sequence from 1990-92 and 1992 until completion of the project. This combination of
in situ and periodic assistance was highly effective and was instrumental in improving both
academic and administrative operations at NPI. The following list of activities and tasks
accomplished provides insight into the very substantive role played by the EPFL teamn:
a) reviewed all existing programs;
b) prepared all equipment lists for labs and teaching equipment for classrooms;
c) conducted upgrading courses for NPI staff;
d) developed administrative procedures in academic departments;
e) drafted Institutional Policies;
f) prepared Operational Policies;
g) prepared new curricula for preparatory, pre-engineering and engineering courses;
h) prepared Organizational Structure with function analysis;
i) assessment of manpower requirements for all levels of the Institution;
j) prepared rules and regulations for academic activities, exams and external examiners;
k) prepared 5-Year Development Plan;
') prepared job descriptions from Dean down to all Dept. Heads and Heads of Sections;
m) prepared (i) Annual Department Reports; (ii) Annual Dean's Faculty Reports; and
(iii) internal Department Reports;
n) introduced accounting practices;
o) introduced personnel management and student management system;
p) introduced Administrative Teaching Training Program;
q) defined and created the Technical Services Department.
12.   Other Consultants. Two non-EPFL consultants made significant contributions setting
up: (a) an accounting system and (ii) a Management Information System (MIS). The
accounting consultant, who came several times from the middle to the end of implementation,
arranged the NPI accounts according to recognized international practices, initiated other types of
inventory systems, and provided on-the-job training for administrative staff. The MIS expert
established personnel and student database management systems using programs which are easy
to use and modify. From an administrative point of view, these are key tools which lay the
foundation for future development. Both consultancies had very positive results and, if the basic
systems established are maintained and extended, significant long term benefits will accrue.
13.   Assessment of TA. Estimated (US$8.5) and actual (US$8.3) TA costs were virtually
identical and the value-for-money, excellent. The TA helped to establish a solid foundation for
NPI -- not only in terms of the physical and academic dimensions, but with respect to the
complex procedural and administrative regulations and operating plans required for a modem
tertiary level institution. With the exception of the first CTA, EPFL technical assistance was of



6
very high caliber. Virtually all the accomplishments listed in paragraph 10 were achieved under
the stewardship of the second CTA, an experienced and highly capable person who handled day-
to-day implementation, institution-building, knowledge transfer, and engineering program
development with equal aplomb. Thanks to solid support on the part of EPFL, many activities
which were not even envisaged at Appraisal were initiated and implemented. In light of this, it is
sad that, at present, there are no plans for continuing a formal linkage with EPFL.
Upgrading and Remuneration of NPI Staff
14.   Overseas Training. When the overseas training program began in 1992, language was a
major obstacle for NPI staff. Although most had a good command of Thai and some a language
of the former Eastern Bloc countries (Russian, German, or Spanish), only five percent
understood French; even fewer were fluent in English. In absence of a major language-training
program, most were sent to Thai universities.
Academic Staff
a) Short-term: About 90% of the staff received short-term training. An initial program of 4-6
weeks was developed in conjunction with Khoen Kaen University (KKU) in Thailand. At
first, courses were supposed to be taught by KKU staff at NPI, but this plan encountered
resentment among NPI staff. Eventually, about 30 staff went to KKU in mid-1992 for
refresher courses in electrical, civil and mechanical engineering. Subsequent arrangements
were made with Thailand's Kasetsart University for the following 2 years. Short-term
academic training was assessed by the participants as costly and as a waste of time. Due in
large part to the remaining language barrier, two-thirds of the academic staff were still
regarded as "unqualified" after the training.
b) Medium-term: Academic training of 6-9 months duration was developed for upgrading
exceptional staff in laboratory work and pedagogy. In this program, 6 staff were sent to
EPFL; 4 to the UK; and 3 to Thailand;
c) Long-term: The best candidates were sent overseas to do post-graduate studies: 3 in
electrical engineering (1 to UK and 2 to Thailand), 3 in civil engineering (all to the US); and
3 in mechanical engineering (1 to UK and 2 to Thailand). All staff have returned and are
working at NPI.
Non Academic Staff
a) Technicians: Seven staff with academic backgrounds were selected to play a key role in the
new laboratories and were sent for a 6-month training program to the UK. Of these seven,
two each were selected in electrical and mechanical engineering, while three were selected
for civil engineering (1 for geo-technical engineering, 1 for roads and traffic, and 1 for
materials testing).
b) Administrative staff: All totaled, 4 staff were sent to the UK for six month training
programs: 2 in accounting and 2 in administration.
15.   Assessment of Training. As noted, the short-term academic training in Thailand was
unpopular and apparently unsatisfactory. Experience with medium and long-term training was
acceptable for those sent to the US, UK and Switzerland, but generally unsatisfactory for those



7
sent to Thailand. The best quality training was achieved in electrical engineering. The
administrative and technician staff trained in the UK felt that tangible benefits had been
achieved. In retrospect, a massive language training program which would have prepared
trainees for advanced study in English (or French) should have been incorporated for all trainees.
Experience with similar programs in Bank-financed programs in the region (and the notable
success of the China program) was evidently ignored, indicating that IDA's quality control
function during preparation was weak.
16.   NPI Staff Compensation. Adequacy of NPI pay scales (especially for good performers
and relative to the private sector) was discussed during preparation. To address the problem, the
Swiss agreed to finance a program of merit-based bonuses, while GOL agreed to routinely
review NPI and private sector salaries for parity. The covenant mandating periodic salary review
was not met. The bonus program was abandoned in December 1996 when it came to light that
the money was not being used as an incentive for good performance, but as a general cost-of-
living increase for all NPI staff. Clearly, in absence of GOL commitment to addressing the
parity issue, any project-related solution would have been inadequate. Although a huge gap
remains, GOL feels unable to affect major changes in the salary structure of NPI independently
of other civil service categories. This is particularly true now that NPI has been absorbed into
the new National University of Laos. One potential solution to the salary dilemma lies in
allowing staff to pursue consultancies or other income generating activities. However, this
solution is not a panacea and can lead to another set of problems.
Curriculum Development
17.   Language Issues. Those preparing the project felt a strong need to help Laos forge
closer links with both Western and other Asian economies and -- realizing that English was the
preferred business language in the region -- included English language teaching as a condition in
the Development Credit Agreement. In the early 1990s, GOL decreed that Lao would become
the official language of instruction at all levels of the education system, including tertiary. While
Lao remains the official language, either English or French is compulsory for years 1-3. About
three-quarters of the students study English, and this proportion may increase as a result of Lao
entrance into ASEAN in July 1997. Additional support for French-language academic training
came in mid-1997 when an association of French-speaking universities established a special
program within the Civil Engineering Department where French is taught progressively and
intensively.
18.   Professional Engineering Training Programs. In 1995, new curricula were developed
at NPI and approved by MOE for pre-engineering and engineering students. A fundamental
change over the old program was the introduction of a Preparatory Year and a Pre-Engineering
Year followed by the four-year Bachelor of Engineering program. This program is generally
compatible with others in South-East Asia (except Indonesia).
19.    Of the four degree-granting departments foreseen at Appraisal, only three were
established. The economics/management department, an adaptation of the 'engineer economist'



8
model of the former Eastern Bloc countries, was never implemented. The French technical
assistant who arrived to help set up this department observed that the model was not consistent
with a free-market economy, and -- on his recommendation -- it was dropped. It was replaced
with a unit that taught basic economics and management courses as part of the overall
engineering curricula. Somewhat after the fact, in 1995, MOE sought and received IDA
concurrence for this change. Over the course of implementation a fourth department --
"Technical Services" -- did emerge, created out of the necessity to maintain the physical plant
and equipment to the high standards being introduced. While not an academic program per se, it
is vital to the sustainability of the institution and is discussed further below.
a) Civil. This department was introduced with the project. At completion, it was experiencing
major difficulties. The department head was overseas pursuing a postgraduate degree and the
leadership in his absence was weak. Several areas of the curriculum were not adequately
covered (including, roads and traffic; water supply; solid waste management; and
hydraulics). The staffing shortage was attributable to several factors, most importantly the
irresistible draw of the private sector, which was booming and providing the opportunity to
earn 10 times the salary of a university professor employed at GOL pay scales. Since high
demand for qualified civil engineers was unlikely to abate any time soon, an interim solution
-- such as employing expatriate civil engineers in teaching positions -- should be sought.
Unfortunately, because of the requirement to teach in Lao, such assistance is largely
precluded.
b) Electrical. In contrast with Civil, the Electrical Engineering was in good shape, with the
requisite leadership and staff to implement the curriculum and cover specialized topics.
c) Mechanical. Falling somewhere in between the other two departments, Mechanical
Engineering was acceptable, with a competent but generally weaker staff offset by solid,
common sense leadership.
d) Technical Services. Originally, TA for maintenance was a 2-year activity, but farsighted
insistence from the Project Office caused it to be extend to the end of the project and become
a full-fledged department. The routine attention to maintenance was happily evident during
implementation and at completion. Moreover, what started out as 'general maintenance'
expanded to cover four specialized areas -- general maintenance, cleaning of campus, vehicle
maintenance and operation, and maintenance production -- and include a Maintenance
Production Center. Apart from ensuring the many aspects of maintenance related to the
institution itself, the Maintenance Production Center enhances considerably the possibility of
institutional sustainability by extending maintenance services to the private sector and
generating off-budget income for the institution. The institutionalization of maintenance
practices and creation of income generation potential from maintenance activities was one of
the most important long term contributions, albeit totally unforeseen at Appraisal.
Provision of Education Materials
20.   When GOL issued the decree making Lao the official language of instruction, the impact
upon NPI was immediate. Suitable compromises were struck with regard to teaching, but the
situation with written materials was different, given the dearth of appropriate written materials in
Lao. A decision was made to continue obtaining reference books (mostly in Thai and some in



9
English) for the NPI central and departmental libraries. Lecture manuscripts, which were being
prepared in English for all courses, would be translated into Lao. A start was indeed made on
traslating them, but the effort was eventually abandoned on grounds of cost and feasibility (Lao
words not being available for all engineering concepts). These lecture manuscripts have become
the major teaching/learning tool and currently are providing the fundamental written link in the
pedagogical process. In hindsight, provision of ample reading materials and -- in particular, the
creation of the lecture manuscripts -- are among the project's major accomplishments.
NPI Enrollments, Supply of and Demand for Graduates
21.   The first batch of students started the new curriculum in the 1995/96 academic year: 248
students (9% female) were enrolled in the first two preparatory/pre-engineering years, and 349
students (6% female) were enrolled in the four-year undergraduate program. At the end of the
year, 102 students graduated as follows: 43 in civil, 23 in electrical, and 36 in mechanical
engineering. The perception of NPI among employers in both state and private enterprises is
very favorable, and graduates are considered well-trained in comparison with other specialized
schools in the country. Their solid background in basic science and computer sciences makes
them very marketable. To date and for the foreseeable future, NPI graduates have no difficulty
in finding employment in all three engineering specializations. The State Electrical Power
Corporation (EDL) alone absorbs about 80 graduates per year. Ministries of Construction,
Transport and Telecommunications also provide career opportunities. However, it is the growing
private sector which attracts most NPI graduates due to the much higher salaries offered.
Higher Technician Training
22.  IDA's involvement in the NPI Project was predicated on the fact that both engineer and
higher technician training programs would be supported by the investment. During the first two
years of implementation, higher technician training programs would be studied, and -- based
upon this review -- staff training programs, repair/supply of equipment and renovation of
facilities would be planned and undertaken. Important collateral issues, such as the linkage
between higher technician and university level programs, would be addressed. The SAR
estimated that, by 1995 about 2,500 technicians would be trained.
23.   None of these objectives were achieved within the context of the project, and support for
higher technician training was eliminated altogether during the early stages of implementation.
The formal request to drop the component came to IDA somewhat belatedly (early 1995), in any
event well after the decision was taken by project implementers. GOL decided that project
scope was overambitious and NPI should focus exclusively on university-level education, which
would make the latter compatible with other degree-granting institutions in the region. NPI --
the focus of the investment and agency implementing the project -- lacked both the structure and
mandate to coordinate or integrate higher technician training programs nationwide.  The
necessary groundwork for developing a uniform and sustainable higher technician training
program had not been laid and could not be addressed within the project context. Missing
elements included: (i) indicators on industrial development; (ii) a skills needs assessment; (iii) a
national strategy on vocational training; and (iv) policies to guide long term financing of



10
technical and vocational training.2 Regardless of the reasons and however justified in hindsight,
the decision to jettison a component which had formed the rationale for IDA participation points
toward seriously deficient preparation of that component as well as questionable initial
commitment on the part of the Government and the co-financiers alike.
24.   The manner in which the component was dropped underscores another problem. This
instance, and several others where IDA was informed after-the-fact, points toward a pattern of:
(a) faulty communication; (b) lack of understanding of IDA procedures on the part of the
Borrower and co-financier; and (c) lax monitoring by IDA, where decisions were taken more by
default than design. It also illustrates the strained relations that characterized much of project
implementation.
Linkages to the Labor Market and In-Service Training
25.   A joint NPI/Industry Council was established 18 months after the date stipulated in the
Credit Agreement and adopted the resolution to meet annually. While satisfying the covenant, it
has had limited influence to date and is not yet effective as a linkage body. It has a long way to
go in becoming a powerful trustee board which actively promotes NPI welfare and program
relevance. The Annual Engineering Day has taken place at NPI since 1994. This is essentially
an open house day where NPI opens its doors to parents and public at large. Students present
projects and demonstrations. The annual event is essentially an opportunity for information
dissemination about the Institute. With respect to establishing linkages with engineering
institutes overseas, there are a number of possible arrangements pending, including links with
Kasetsart University in Thailand.
26.   During the first three years of implementation, a concerted effort was made to conduct in-
service training through seminars provided by the EPFL advisers. The workload on the staff
generated by other priorities, combined with communication problems, and (at the time) a
shortage of equipment and facilities made NPI realize that conducting such training was not only
too ambitious and premature, but also impossible to implement under prevailing conditions.
Nevertheless, the concept of such training has been widely accepted and there is possibility of
implementing it as a later date. Similarly, the idea of producing a technical dictionary was
shelved as being impractical and too costly since the engineering profession is presently at an
early stage of organizing itself in Laos.
Sector Work, Studies and Evaluation
27.   Sector Work. This was the subject of extended discussions between SDC and the Bank.
SDC was prepared to take the lead on it, and this arrangement was eventually agreed to. It did
not materialize as a part of the project, however. In the early-1990s SDC and IDA co-financed a
second education project (this one in basic education), and some of the sector work envisaged
was conducted during project preparation. Subsequently, IDA and MOE conducted sector work
on the management and financing of the education system.
2 Although bi-lateral assistance has supported a few institutions and programs in the years since, the necessary policy
framework to develop a vibrant technical-vocational training sub-sector is still lacking.



11
28.   Studies and Evaluation.  Of the five studies proposed in the SAR3, three would have
been carried out through the sector work which did not materialize, namely: (a) efficiency of
secondary education as preparation for admission to higher education; (b) assessment of higher
education programs with a view to improving their quality and efficiency; and (c) financing of
basic and secondary education. Of these three, the first two were picked up by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and formed the basis for ADB-financing to tertiary education. The
third was incorporated into the above-mentioned IDA sector work. The fourth -- a "Tracer Study
on the Initial Employment and Subsequent Job Changes of NPI Graduates," was undertaken in
1994, but results were not very meaningful since the study assumed the much wider existence of
a developed and structured "industry" in Laos. While in some ways premature, the tracer study
is regarded as a starting point whose real usefulness may be determined in its repetition at a
future date. NPI has suggested that repeating the study 5 years after the initial attempt, i.e. again
in 1999, would give a better indication of impact. Although the fifth study -- dealing with the
external efficiency of the NPI program -- never formally materialized, most relevant issues were
evaluated by the EPFL technical assistance team and taken into account during the preparation of
the new curriculum.
29.    The intended review by an engineering team of the content and quality of NPI programs
(to ensure their international level and relevance to national needs) did not take place. The
delays in completing the facilities and commissioning equipment would have made such a study
premature. In any event, informal external efficiency evidence points toward the high quality
and appropriate training of NPI graduates.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
30.   Five major factors affected the implementation and outcomes of the Project. Most are
discussed extensively elsewhere in the text and include:
(a)   negotiations and agreement on a mutually acceptable (IDA/SDC) contract for the
services of the Architectural/Engineering Consultants, which delayed
implementation for about three years (para. 4);
(b)   termination of Construction Phase I, which further delayed implementation and
resulted in retendering, a new construction contract and litigation (para. 5);
l
(c)   contractor liquidity problems, which caused delays during Construction Phase II
and affected installation and commissioning of equipment (para. 6);
(d)   institution by IDA/SDC review missions of a benchmarking system for tracking
implementation progress once the project was formally acknowledged as a
"problem  project" in late 1995, which focused energies on concrete and
3An amount of US$400,000 equivalent was included in the Credit for the various studies, of which only a fraction was
used for the Tracer Study. The balance was reallocated to other Categories of the Credit during the final months of
implementation.



12
achievable targets. Successful achievement of these targets led IDA to extend the
Closing Date by one year, which in turn enabled satisfactory completion of
physical facilities and a satisfactory closure to the project (para. 28).
(e)   transformation of NPI into the faculty of Architecture and Engineering of NUOL,
an official decision by GOL which has implications for the future sustainability of
specific benefits achieved under the Project (para. 33).
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   From an institutional point of view, NPI's sustainability is linked to the need to maintain:
(i) a favorable institutional context; (ii) relevant programs and adequate human resources in both
academic and administrative roles; and (iii) adequate financing. These three links are
interdependent, and a weakness in one will affect the sustainability of all.
Institutional Context: Shortly after the establishment of NUOL in June 1995, NPI was merged
with four other schools (Architecture, Electronics, Transport and Communication, and Irrigation)
to become NUOL's Faculty of Engineering and Architecture (FOEA). The immediate impact
was overloading NPI's fragile new administrative structure. At the same time, a "School of
Foundation Studies" was established which took over the first two years of study and moved pre-
engineering and 1st year engineering students to the NUOL campus. NPI staff were also moved,
with a predictably deleterious affect on staff morale. Operational policies and procedures
developed and implemented under the Project are very well regarded, and have been studied for
their wider application to the NUOL. While the desire to build up the new university structure is
understood, this should not be done at the expense of dismantling what has been accomplished at
the engineering campus. The impact of such decisions will be meliorated only if NPI fully
participates in them and is delegated the necessary authority by the University and GOL to
undertake the necessary compensatory internal adjustments.
Programs and Human Resources: Maintaining relevant programs, an esprit d'corps and
adequate incentives package for NPI staff is crucial. The project helped put in place both the
programs and regulatory environment where rules and procedures are applied equitably and
uniformly, no small achievement. While immediate or significant changes to the salary structure
is unlikely, the new facilities and equipment provide considerable potential to generate income
through testing and offering services to the private sector. Initiating fee-paying evening courses
(particularly in sought-after courses such as Civil Engineering) and increasing the quota of fee-
paying students would increase income and be responsive to growing demand. A stronger public
relations function which actively seeks assistance and partnerships could also insure long term
relevance and assist with periodic development and renewal of staff.
Financial: During implementation, the annual running costs of the Institution were equivalent to
US$100,000, divided between $20,000 as GOL contribution and $80,000 project contribution.
With the increase in facilities, consumables, utilities, etc., the annual running costs are expected
to reach about $150,000 in the coming years. NPI has planned a budget for the next 2 academic
years (including consumables and maintenance). The annual shortfall would be on the order of



13
$80,000 unless: (a) NPI can generate adequate income to make up the difference; (b) additional
GOL funds are made available; or (c) additional external assistance becomes available. GOL has
assured financing, although the precise level of commitment was not known. Also unknown was
whether funds generated by the NPI faculty would remain at that level or be absorbed into the
general operating budget of the University. If the latter, staff morale and the financial viability of
the institution could suffer.
F.    IDA/SDC PERFORMANCE
32.  IDA Role. IDA's role in both project generation and implementation was weak. The 5-
year gap between identification and Credit signing, the newness of the partnerships, and IDA's
position as the minority financier did not help. Although IDA financing represented only one-
fifth of the total investment, IDA Guidelines governed procurement. This created an awkward
situation, the ramifications of which were not clearly thought through during preparation. As
the overall administrator, IDA led the supervision effort throughout implementation. While bi-
annual supervision reporting was generally adequate, IDA's monitoring of the situation between
missions was not, with procurement follow-up and timely issuance of clearances particularly
deficient. The record shows unacceptable delays (45 to 90 days) which, in one instance, resulted
in a serious contractual penalty for the Borrower. Part of the reason for these lapses can be
attributed to the high turnover of Bank Task Managers and the need for each new person to start
afresh learning the project.
33.   Despite the somewhat chequered record, IDA's leadership and interventions were
important at several crucial points during implementation. Decisions to retender civil works and
establish benchmarks with specific deadlines and the stringent monitoring thereafter probably
helped to avert what could have been premature collapse of the project on two occasions. The
decision to allow equipment suppliers to update their bid quotations over a two-year period
(rather than going through another ICB exercise) demonstrated both flexibility and prudence.
34.   SDC Role and Relationship to IDA. The quality control function (both in terms of
inputs and monitoring) was largely performed by the SDC. EPFL and the architectural and
engineering Consultants -- under the watchful eye of the SDC -- did an outstanding job in
training and building up the administrative and physical structure of the institution. Almost
without exception, the individuals involved were highly qualified and dedicated to achieving
lasting results.
35.   From the SDC perspective, the procurement situation was worsened by the plethora of
IDA's rules and regulations which were not always applied with a consistent hand. The
excessive turnover of IDA task managers -- six over the course of implementation -- was also
highlighted as evidence of questionable management decisions and practices on IDA's part.
Even the good performance by most of the individual task managers was defeated by poor
continuity and exacerbated the unhappy climate that characterized much of implementation.
The relationship started to improve after the crisis leading to termination of the first civil works
contractor. Intense consultation took place at that juncture. Joint resolution and development of



14
a series of benchmarks designed to get the project back on track put the donors behind a common
cause.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Project Implementation. The National Polytechnic Institute Project Office -- NPIPO --
was constituted by ministerial decree at the very beginning of implementation, as recommended
in the SAR.4 In practice, the project was co-managed by a national Director and the Swiss CTA,
assisted by several local university staff. Only one week of training was provided for local staff
on procurement of goods and equipment; hence, most procurement activities were carried by
EPFL as stipulated in their contract.  It is noteworthy that all procurement activities were
handled in the space of about 4 years and -- with the exception of the difficulties attendant upon
the civil works delays -- were virtually problem-free. NPIPO performed in an outstanding
manner in coordinating very complex activities and problems related to civil works, project
administration, training and technical assistance.  All project implementation covenants
pertaining to reporting, accounting and annual auditing were fully met. NPIPO was never
integrated into the day-to-day administration of the institution, and it was unclear whether this
affected the faculty's sense of ownership of the project and its outcomes. At project completion,
NPIPO was disbanded and staff resumed their academic duties. Consequently, whatever skills
were gained as a result of managing this foreign-financed investment have been reabsorbed into
the institution rather than being tapped for a "development office" under the university rector.
37.   Cumbersome internal procedures of GOL contributed to implementation delays. In the
case of financial transactions, high level signatures were required from both the Ministries of
Education and Finance (involving at least 6 steps). Routine operations took 2-4 weeks on
average to process. Some of the difficulties experienced by the project -- particularly in relation
to Phase I civil works -- had to do with the lack of familiarity of the GOL with ICB, with a
predictable impact on the start of construction. Although there was excellent cooperation
between the administrative nucleus of NPI and the EPFL team on a daily basis, communication
with the director and the MOE appeared to be less frequent and fluid. For example, the new
curricula, rules and regulations were officially adopted without ever informing NPI directly.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
38.   The first two project objectives were by far the most important from an investment
perspective. These were (a) increasing the capacity to supply needed engineers; and (b)
improving the quality of existing engineering training programs. They have been fully met. The
third objective -- (c) promoting and integrating higher technician training programs -- was
poorly conceived, probably underfunded, certainly unrealistic and was not met. The fourth
objective -- (d) analysis of issues in the education sector -- was largely met outside the
framework of the project. In both physical and institutional terms, outcomes have been
satisfactory. Academic and communal buildings have been built, equipped and furnished to an
appropriate and durable standard. Existing buildings were rehabilitated to a similar level. The
net result was excellent facilities overall and a fully integrated campus that includes student
4 Misunderstandings arose since IDA was never formally notified of NPIPO's formation.



15
dormitories and staff housing. Taking into consideration implementation delays and the fact that
the first two preparatory years have moved to the NUOL campus, enrollment targets are being
reached. Enrollment in 1995/96 was 597 students (349 at NPI, 248 at NUOL). For the 4-year
period 1996-2000, the average enrollment at NPI is expected to be 420 with similar proportional
increase at NUOL, thus reaching the planned objective of 700 students as stated in the SAR.
Academic goals are also being met, despite some deficiencies in staff training. Provision of
lecture manuscripts helped stabilize the quality of teaching and make the 3 specializations fully
operational. Present teaching deficiencies are due more to the draw of the private sector than to
deficiencies inherent in the curriculum. Creation of the Technical Services Department and
Maintenance Production Center are among the most significant achievements and bode well for
the long term sustainability of the investment.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
39.   With consultant assistance, a comprehensive 5-year development and operating plan was
drawn up and prospects for implementing it are good. Potential risks should also be signaled.
One stems from what might be termed 'premature cessation of international support.' The past
seven years of assistance, while laudable, represents a small slice of the total support needed. It
is lamentable that no further assistance or linkage arrangement was forthcoming. Other risks
relate to the creation of the umbrella NUOL structure and emergence of well-defined policies.
Project achievements such as functional administrative, financial, and accounting systems may
be overwhelmed, undermined or even appropriated by NUOL as it assumes full university
stature.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The main lessons from the project follow.
With regard to project preparation and design, the main lessons are:
*  Support for institutional development at the tertiary level requires sustained assistance
beyond the scope and time limitations of typical Bank/IDA-financed projects and should be
considered as part of a longer-term sector strategy, dialogue, and commitment.
*  Inclusion of assistance for higher technician education requires a thorough understanding of
the policy framework, labor market interface, and extant service provision structure, none of
which was present in this case.
*  It is advisable to include components which will allow the institution to continue generating
information on its environment, specifically with regard to: (a) external efficiency issues and
(b) potential international linkages.
*  It is difficult to address public university salary deficiencies outside the broader context of
public/private sector remuneration issues.
With regard to co-financing projects with other donors, the main lessons are:
* Careful study is needed when IDA agrees to participate as minority co-financier.



16
* Initial agreement by all parties on a set of common standards, assumptions and objectives is
essential to smooth implementation; thorough familiarization with IDA's role as the
administrator of bilateral grant funds is also essential.
With regard to procurement, the main lessons are:
*  Short-term academic training requires careful attention to language issues and the
identification of appropriate technical assistance providers.
* Adequate furniture for university-level studies can be acquired locally.
*  Where due process is observed, the dialogue with potential suppliers is candid, and IDA is
flexible, unnecessary and time-consuming rebidding can be avoided.
With regard to implementation, the main lesson is:
* Frequent change of task management defeats the purpose of supervision.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE PROJECT
(Credit 2001-LA)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial         Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                        E                E                  El)
Sector Policies                       El               El                                    Ea
Financial Objectives                  U                El                 Cl    i              I
Institutional Development                              El                 E                  El
Physical Objectives                                    El                 E                  El
Poverty Reduction                     E                E                  E                  Igf
Gender Issues                                                             Ea
Other Social Objectives               E                El                 El
Environmental Objectives              E                El                 El
Public Sector Management              E                E                  El
Private Sector Development            E                E                  El
Other (specify)                       E                E                 El
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                 ~~(~/)                      (/)
O~~lE



18
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (/)                      (/)
Identification                    1                        []
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                  []
Supervision
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)            (/)            (b/)
Preparation                                                j              I]
Implementation                                                             El
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)                   m                              El
Highly                                           Higly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Jl             EDl                               al



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                Purpose                   Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
Education Development   To raise quality of basic education and      1993           To be
Project                 to establish the policy and institutional                   completed
(Cr. 2488-LA)           frameworks for longer-tenn sector                           06/30/2000
development.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned             Date Actual/
. ~~~~Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               11186                   6187
Preparation                                             02/86                    12187
Appraisal                                               10/86                   03/87
Negotiations                                            04/87                   02/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)            N/A                      N/A
Board Presentation                                      4/89                   4/11/89
Signing                                                 4/89                   4/26/89
Effectiveness                                           7/89                    8/24/89
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                   N/A                      N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                         10/31/92                12/09/92
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)      N/A                      N/A
Project Completion                                     6/30/95                 12/31/96
Loan Closing                                           6/30/96                 6/30/97
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
IDA FY   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal       0.3        1.1        1.3        0.7       0.1         -          -          -
Estimate
Actual         0.20       0.17        -         0.16       0.41      0.08        0.8        2.0
Actual as
% of          5.30%      9.88%      9.88%     14.15%    25.07%    27.24%    49.62%    100.98%
Estimate
Date of Final                                                                April 8, 1997
Disbursement



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/ Presidents         Estimated                         Actual
Report
1. Renovate existing facilities and                             Despite serious complications,
build new ones as required.                                     cumulative delays and higher-than-
expected costs, the buildings were
well designed and constructed.
The standard achieved is of high
quality and appropriate to the level
of the institution.
Apart from scheduling problem to
2. Procure equipment for                                        match equipment delivery and
academic, administrative,                                       training to building completion and
educational development and                                     the delay in furniture delivery,
inservice activities.                                           equipment procurement proceeded
smoothly.
3. Upgrading the quality of                                     Nine teaching staff successfully
teaching staff.                                                 received post-graduate training
overseas. In addition, 43 received
short and medium-term academic
training in Thailand and in the UK.
Seven technicians and 4
administrative staff were also
trained overseas.
4. Number of professional                                       Three of the four departments
engineers and higher level                                      anticipated, three established. The
technician trained.                                             economics/management
department was dropped because it
was inappropriate; relevant courses
were maintained, however. A
fourth (non-academic) Technical
Services department was added.
For the 1995/96 academic year,
102 students graduated and had no
difficulty in getting employment.
The higher technician training
program was dropped during
implementation because of
insufficient preparation and
commitment by the Borrower and
the SDC.
5. Increase support for                                         The development of lecture
instructional and laboratory                                    manuscripts for all courses and the
materials.                                                      provision of library reference
books are major accomplishments
of the project.



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study               at Appraisal/Redefined           Status          Impact of Study
1. Efficiency and quality of  -To evaluate the type, adequacy,  Did not materialize
post-secondary education    level of instructional programs    as a separate study
programs                  and the condition of the existing   but was incorporated
facilities.                  in the ADB 's work
-To examine the demand for    and formed the basis
teacher training as well as the  for ADB fnancing
relationship between the demand  to tertiary education.
and supply of higher technicians
-To study the internal efficiency
of the higher education.
-To determine to the country's
training needs.
-To evaluate the training
capacity of the institutions,
including their facilities,
teaching resources, and teacher
qualifications.
2. Secondary education    -To measure effectiveness of  Did not materialize
effectiveness            secondary education as         as a separate study
preparation for admission to  but was incorporated
higher education.             in the ADB 's work
and formed the basis
for ADB financing
to tertiary education.
3. Tracer study on the initial  -To assess the technical and  The study was  The results were not
employment and            professional quality of NPI   carried out under the  meaningful since the
subsequent job changes of   graduates and the quality of its    project in 1994.  study assumed much
NPI graduates.            curriculum against labor market                   wider existence of a
needs.                                            developed and
structured industry in
Laos. However, the
study is regarded as
a starting point
which should be
repeated in the
future.
4. Preparation of possible                              Did not materialize
future investmnents in the                              as a separate study
education sector and human                              but incorporated into
resource development in                                 the IDA sector work.
general



22
Purpose as Defined
Study               at Appraisal/Redefined           Status          Impact of Study
5. Review the financing of   -To examine the national budget  Did not materialize
basic and secondary       of Lao PDR devoted to         as a separate study
education                 education and its allocation in  but incorporated into
various subsectors.           the IDA sector work.
-To determine the efficiency
with the existing allocated funds.
-To identify all financing sources
for primary and secondary
education.
-To examine the budgetary
allocation process at the national
and provincial levels.
-To assess the benefits resulting
from the educational
investments.
-To identify possible new
sources of financing.
6. Examine the external  -To determine the technical    Did not materialize    Although the study
efficiency of the NPI     quality of graduates          as a separate study.   did not formnally
program                   - To determine the salary levels                   materialize, most
of graduates and the external                     relevant issues were
efficiency of the pool of                         evaluated by the
graduates.                                        EPFL team and
- To determine the perception the                 taken into
labor market has of NPI                           consideration in the
graduates by engineering                          preparation of the
specialization over time.                         new curriculum.



23
Table 8a: Project Costs
Project Costs                    Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estinate(US$M)a/
Local      Foreign        Total        Local      Foreign       Total
Item                                   Costs       Costs                       Costs      Costs
1. investment : osts
Civil works                             0.8         1.9           2.7           1.1         3.4        4.5b/
Professional services                    -          0.3           0.3                       2.0         2.0
Furniture                               0.2         0.1           0.3           0.2         0.3        0.5c/
Equipment                                -          4.4           4.4           1.2         1.0         2.3
Technical assistance/fellowships         -          6.4           6.4            -          8.7         8.7
Evaluation/in-service training          0.2         0.2           0.4                        -           -
Subtotal                                 1.2         13.3          14.5          2.5        15.4        17.9
2. Recufrent Costs                        1.4         0.7           2.1           1.3        NA           1.3
3. Contingencies
Physical contingencies                    0.1         2.2           3.5            -           -           -
Price contingencies.                      0.7         0.9           1.6
TOTAL Project Costs             3.4         15.3          18.7          3.8         15.4        19.2
Notes: a/      Actualfigures supplied by NPIPO; may vary slightlyfrom what appears in the text..
b/     Includes Credit Swiss Grant and contractor bondfrom first contractor.
c/     Includes Swiss Grant of USSO.24M equivalent.
Table 8b: Project Financing
r________________________ :Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                      ActualLatest Estimate(USSM) al
Local       Foreign       Total       Local        Foreign          Total
Source               Costs        Costs                     Costs        Costs
IDA                             1.3          2.2          3.5          1.3          3.2            4.5 b/
GovernmentofSwitzerland        0.1          12.9          13.0         1.2          12.2           13.4
Govermment of Lao PDR          2.0           0.2          2.2          1.3           -              1.3
TOTAL                         3.4          15.3         18.7         3.8           15.4           19.2
Notes: al      Actualfigures supplied by NPIPO; may vary slightlyfrom what appears in the text.
b/     Includes contractor bondfromfirst contractor.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised         Description of          Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment     covenant
date       date
LA-PE-4185 4(1)      10,12    C       01/01/90               Establish by January 1,    Council established 18
1990, and thereafter operate months after original
ajoint NPI/Industry Council due date. Although it
with membership, powers   has adopted by laws
and responsibilities    and plans to meet once
satisfactory to IDA.    a year, it is not yet a
fully effective linkage
body.
4(2)     12       C                              Include the teaching of the  Done
English language in the NPI
curriculum.
4(3)     5        C                              Furnish for comment to IDA Done
terms of reference for
overseas and local training,
and selection criteria and
procedures used.
4(4)     12       CP                             At mid-term and end of the  Alternative incentive
project, review the     mechanisms for
compensation of NPI staff  compensation should
with a view to keep such    be explored, since
compensation competitive   bonus system under
with industry and parastatal the project failed to
engineers.              link merit with
performance.
4(5)     2,4      CP                             Gradually assume recurrent While it appears that
costs of operating NPI so as Government has met
to reach two-thirds of such  covenant requirements,
cost by June 30, 1995.  concerns remain about
commitment and
capacity to sustain NPI
in the context of other
developments in
tertiary education .
4(6)     9        C       03/31/1995             Beginning in 1990, furnish  Done. Good
by March 31 and September compliance with
30 of each year report on    reporting covenants.
actions taken or proposed to
be taken in implementing
the project.
LA-PE-4185 4.01(a)  3,4,9     C                              Maintain records and    Done. Submission of
accounts which reflect   SOE reports, as per
project operations, resources audit reports.
and expenditures.
4.01(B)  3,4,9    C                              (i) Have records and     Done. FY96 audit
accounts for each fiscal year submitted to mission.
audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii) Provide certified copy of
the audit report to the Bank
no later Sept. 30 of each
year; and
(iii) Provide other
information as requested by
IDA.



25
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised               Description of            Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment         covenant
date        date
4.01(c)   3,4,9     C                                For all expenditures made   Done. Submission of
on the basis SOEs:         SOE reports, as per
(i) Maintain records and   audit reports above.
accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) Retain records of
expenditures until at least
one year after audit report
received by Bank;
(iii) Enable IDA
representatives to examine
such records;
(iv) Include records and
accounts in annual audit
report, also a separate
opinion on expenditures
made on basis of SOEs.
Covenant types:
i. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project finds          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                   allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                               regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC   =        not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of cooperation with Bank Operational Manual statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned                      Revised                      Actual
Project Cycle
l_____________________           Weeks           US$           Weeks           US$         Weeks         US$
Through Appraisal                                                                            104.0         191.9
Appraisal-Board                                                                               46.9         117.2
Supervision                                                                                  122.2         386.9
Completion                                                                                     NA            NA
TOTAL                                                                                       273.1        696.0



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized       Implementation     Develop-
Stage of            Month/           of       Days in         Staff Skills           Status           ment       Types of
Project Cycle           Year        Persons       Field         Represented                          Objectives    Problem
l                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s I
Through Appraisal                                                                               _         _
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision 1             06/22/89*         ?           8       -Task manager
Supervision 2             02/17/90*         3          32       -Task manager                 I
-Procurement
specialist
-Architect
Supervision 3             11/10/90*         1          4        General Educator -           2                1
Task manager
Supervision 4            03/13/91*          1           6       General Educator &           2                1
Task manager
Supervision 5             11/16/91*         3         13.5      -General Educator            2                1
& Task manager
-Training specialist
-Architect                                                      I
Supervision 6             04/12/92*        3          18.5      -General Educator            2                I
-Procurement
specialist
.__________________  _____________   __________   -D ivision   chief
Supervision 7             12/17/92*         3         15.5      -General Educator            2                1
-Architect
. _________________                                __________    -Educator (cons.)
Supervision 8             12/18/93*         2          29       -Task Manager                2                1
-|________  -Technical educator
Supevision 9             07/16/94*         4            5       -Task manager                S                S
-Training spec.
(Cons.)
-Management
specialist (cons)
-Economist
Supervision 10            12/15/94*        3          15.5      -Economist                   U               U            CW,
-Implem. Spec.                                           SQ
-TVET (cons.)
Supervision 11           06/13/95*         4           33       -Sr. Edu. Spec.              U               U           SCW,
-Economist                                               STA
-Mgmt. Spec.
(Cons.)
-Architect (cons.)
Supervision 12            11/12/95*        3            8       -Economist (cons.)           U               U            PE
-Mgmt. Spec.
(Cons.)
-Architect (cons.)
Supervision 13           06/18/96*         3            6       -Sr. Edu. Spec.              S               S
-Architect (cons.)
-Mgmt. Spec. (cons.)
Supervision 14            11/15/96*        2            6       -Architect (cons.)           S               S
._______________   ____________   __ _____  ____-Sr. Edu.  Spec.
Completion                06/15/97         2            6       -Sr. Edu Spec.
-Architect (cons.)



27
ANNEX: Borrower Comments
i    4C     NATIONAL  OLYTrCCNIC- INSTIT=
0.          ~~PROJECT
~            |P.O. WX 310
P-OWE ACI) 513332
FAX  (MACI) 314 32
VyID  L IAO ?PD1
To:    The Wori Bank Group,
Washington DC,
20433 USA
FaX: 202-4774391
Attn:   Mrs. KaIeen Johnston.
Senior Educaton SpecaWlst
Vientiane, 10 NoveMber 1997
Dear Mrs. Johnston,
Pleaw find herewit my commerts on the draft Implementation Completon Reppott
d     on OS,93r.
I wud like to not.her h y tt beuse of the me table oSaint, I culd not disu
with Dr. Skarntath  Mitaray at the MOE; 5e these comments are only mine.
Best rejJardS
KhmaMlus NouWnsanh,
NPIP 0W     pireor



28
MOE
)PI Proect                                                                 Oct97
Comments on Implementation Completon Report
NPI project - Cr.No. 2001 LA
1. Pa2r.S: Constructon:
h,w, was a degence of op*niia ... rEC'w recsmnwndafin.'
It would be beUer to wwive this portn of the pagraph buse t do"s rot degCgibe U,e
mality of the story:
*  The lowest bid was a Joint Venture German Thai - Lao ompany (qTLC)
The net lowest bidwas aTha company (ThC)
The TEC reporled o the GOL (MOE). MOE cheek  aon bid docomenS and found out
ft  Lao company of the GThLC did not have the fncial cond s rQuired by Ms bid
condions: that is why et the laest monentf this company his been rejeGoU  fd te nod
lowest bidder has been chosen.
2. Pars.13: Professional disciplines:
.. 'Seal mess wea  sAd. ... mwfter to be taugh t
Tri nitial concapt of 'Eigmeer ecno ' was inspired fom the training mod  of te Es
Gen'mn Unlveies. When the Fech pxa was or site and studled U" ce, he obeved
pjt suw  conoept  eng       is not pme to the changing Contxt and it domnet ast in the
at4co'07   coun    Later ow . odecirsion was madle to abaneon the avulion of
Epim1r =onomIst 0=yj2DljnL and 1 was rplae; by the uatbrrshmw of 2 f EcornoIcg
and Mariagwemet f who ItssponuI* for tt  taaching of basic knowledV of ft 2 feds
within the Engirwer T;ali7ing CUricull
Of course, shoraw  oif suItble meff  pso evident and cofilstitutd one Of the reaons for
waving the Ji*ai ldeq.
Para.14 - a) CMI:
e'expatriate ieching assistance is lary precuded.
Not emxa because foreign pwple are not forbidden to telch in fth Lao schools even Lao
langwage Is te official ane-. The Sws expts hate given kere frm  twm to me but
preparaton of such lecture requirms more me bause of the trarslation In to Lao lnguuge.
Practically. teaching direody In foreign l4nguage is not possible becas none oP to e  dudnt
will understnd. Actwtly, with the 2OL agreemnt te Frnch Spemitng ( FPrucphonli)
orPnisation is eats Wishing a specl Frwnch pmgam (Filllr Franplse) wihin t  CrvU
rgInripnrIg Dmeptm?nt In which FrencM will be i,ght proarosOely png IrntnsivelY.



29
MOEO
NFl Piec                                                                     O<97
4. Pam..15: Higher Tochnical Program
.P4vardless of mt  merts of dopkg Me COMpQ0nt .,. inp/emmnfatin.'
commTent 
To say Vat IDA did not pufifdpated in the dion maWing i not    t Agremnt hs ben
resched during a joint IDASC Review Mission in VYontlw; but  e NPIP rrWnaqgmet
knowing not well the IDA admnistav procdure, did not submit the formal request to do so
fri cue tfme. This formal requeSt is dOne much later, fllowihvg the rwemrk and rice. r.
gf an IDA Revew Mission.
5. Par.30: Projet Irnplemerton
"ii&jI'y tu -. -r  lb uiwncu of tw more strLmUred P1U'
The formal PIU headed by M. Sengsomphne Vtravouth, was esablished by a minitl
decr  at the very beginning of te projct ImplemenWtaor phase. The CTA is ft cautrpwrt
of M. Sengsorphone and jot-marags the projec together. Concning the tec ta SWIM
experls wem invoted in the prourement process of equiprret tfr labs and workshops, this
has been stpulated in the AT contract and the related job dsrption of each of the
consultants.
00CM   could come from the superficil understanding of te IDA regulatons of the PIU
a. Para.31;
a,.. fln7lfas V Eduulian and Finec jPavolvlng 10. 12 sepera    cftfoh) ...
saying pht itherere 10D12 tUisaCtO   for a financial tranactn Is a bit pejoravs:
01rant steps oe longest paywent ,r;cem for the amount ' 5O60LU.0
1.Supplisr4 2.NPIP4 I.MOE (Superviqry & Coordinatn Comft0e) 4 &-MOE (Minisler)
4 S,MOF (Foreign CurrsnC   Departnt) 4 6.MOI (MMInter)4 10DA In tobl 6 supwit
transactons In the dftiq.
to replace 10-1Z  Y y 7
7. Para.34; (n)
corrnrss fefer to point 5 above.



30
< -   46<,NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
PROJECT
P.O . BOX 316
? =0PHONE ()21) 313 332
*   sf        FAX  (856)~~~~~~~'121314382
DISPATH NOTE
a05L Ms. K. Johnston,
Senior Education Specialist,
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific
World Bank
Fax: 202-477-6594
PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF:
No.                  Description                       For
1 .   Table 7: Project Costs and Table 8: Project  as your requested
Financing
Vientiane, 05 December 1997
k  Khamiusa Nouansavanl,
NPiP Deputy Director



Table 7: Project CoMs
Pojecit Costs                       Appral   Estimate (UStM)                   Actual/L-aest Esthnate (USSM)                              Remarks
llems                    Local Costs  Foreign Costs    Total    Local Costs Foreign Cosis   Total
1   .,,,,,,po    ................... .............. ;... ................ ........ ..... .. ...... ....---|--   
- Civil Works                                0.8               1.9            2.7           i.1.1            3.4           4.5   Ginctu& AlaSwiss Granntis Bond
FurnIlure                                   0.2               0.1            0.3           0.2             0.3            0.5    IncludIng Swiss Grant 0.24 US$M
E,ui,m,.n...................  ...........  ...,......  .......  .......... .................                                             . :............... I:  4.4,,,1..,...... .0,,,,,23,,
*Equipment                       -             ~~~~~~~~                     ~~~~4.4  4.4  1.2  1.0           2.3
Technial assistance/Fellowships                  .             6.4            6.4            0               8.7           8.7
- Evaluation I fin-servioe tralning            0.2               0.2            0.4                                          0.0
Evalualbn J h serv:ce l..........       .....    ......... .....       ,2,,..  ...... 2.....    ....      ...............  ........  ............... ......  00,,..... .........
Subtotal             -        ~                  1it          .i~          ~                 I~A            1L~        __2  __145  2_5  _
2. Recurrenl cosis                              1.4              0.7            2.1                                          0.0
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:5 I...    ........ ,........................ .... ,--. .,,....,,,00,,
900M.Imt                                                                                                                    0.0
..!Dy.lcoi. t                                  0.11             2.2            350.0
Price conlingencies                           0.7              0.9            1.6                                          0.0
TOTAL ProJctCosts                 |   3.4               17.1         [ 21.7                     I                    0.0
Table 9: Prpject Flnancing
|__ __   ~Appraisal Estimate (US$M)               Actual/Latest Estimnat  (US$M)                             Remarks
Source                    Local Costs  Forelgn Costs            Total   Local Costs Foreign Costs   Total
IDA                                      j      1.3              2U2              5           1.3              3.2           4.5   BicludedLond ATLANTIS
Gwoernment of Switzerlad                        0.1             12-9           13.0           1.2             12.2           13.4
Governmentdof Lao PDR                           2.0              0.2            2,2          1.33               0            1.3
TOTAL                           3.4             153 D    1.                   3.8         1 .41| 13.2



