Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2001 LA
             (National Polytechnic Institute Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2001 LA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  April  26,   1989,  between  LAO  PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation  (Switzerland),  acting  through the Swiss
Development  Cooperation  (SDC),  a  non-reimbursable contribution
(the Swiss Contribution) in an amount equivalent to twenty million
eight hundred thousand Swiss Francs  (SwF 20,800,000) to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an  agreement  (the  Swiss  Contribution Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland; and
Page  2
     (C)  Switzerland  intends  to   appoint  the  Association  to
administer  the  Swiss   Contribution   in   accordance  with  the
provisions of the Procedural Arrangements; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed,  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "NPI" means the National Polytechnic Institute under the
Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Special Accounts" means the two accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "KN" means the New Kip, the currency of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Swiss Contribution  Account"  means  the account estab-
lished by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss Contribution;
     (e)  "Procedural Arrangements"  means  the  agreement between
the Government of Switzerland  and the Association for cooperation
in the cofinancing  of  specific  projects  or programs within the
framework of the Eighth IDA Replenishment, dated April 9, 1987;
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  February 2, 1989 and February 27,
1989 between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (g)  "Maintenance and  Production  Center"  means  the Center
established within NPI.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to two million  seven  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and the Swiss  Contribution  Account  in  accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree,  to  be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  Except as the  Association  and Switzerland shall other-
wise agree, the allocation  and  withdrawal of the Swiss Contribu-
tion shall  be  governed  mutatis  mutandis  by  the provisions of
Page  3
Article V of the General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  the  following  two  special accounts in Banque
pour le Commerce  Exterieur  Lao  on  terms  and conditions satis-
factory to the  Association;  (i)  a  special  account in dollars,
called the Association Special Account, and (ii) a special account
in Swiss Francs, called the Swiss Special Account.  Deposits into,
and payments  out  of,  the  Special  Accounts  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Swiss
Contribution Account or, if  the  amount of the Swiss Contribution
shall not be  sufficient,  from  the  Credit  Account,  and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1999 and ending April 1, 2029. Each install-
ment to and including  the  installment  payable  on April 1, 2009
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
Page  4
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering  and educational practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the  Swiss  Contribution  shall  be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Accounts for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
Page  5
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.Ol. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that subject to paragraph (b)  of  this  Section, the right of the
Borrower to  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  any  grant  made  to the
Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
suspended, cancelled or terminated  in  whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the  satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or  termination is not caused by
the failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii)  adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrwower from  other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Swiss  Contribution Agreement (other than, if
applicable,  the  effectiveness  of   this  Agreement)  have  been
Page  6
fulfilled.
     Section 6.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. In the  event  that Switzerland or the Associa-
tion  terminate  the  functions  of  the  Association  pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the  Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall
notify the Borrower  promptly  of  the  date  on which Switzerland
shall assume its rights and obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Economy, Planning and Finance
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Economy, Planning and Finance
          Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:
                MINFINANCE
                VIENTIANE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Done Somvorachit
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Page  7
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                   and of the Swiss Contribution
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  and  of the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the  amounts of the Credit and the
Swiss  Contribution  to  each   Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                      Amount of
                        Amount        the Swiss
                        of the      Contribution
                        Credit        Allocated
                       Allocated     (Expressed       % of
                      (Expressed      in Swiss      Expendi-
                        in SDR         Francs       tures to
     Category        Equivalent)     Equivalent)   be Financed
(1)  Civil works      2,100,000                    100%
(2)  Civil works,                       720,000    100%
     equipment,
     supplies,
     training and
     consultants'
     services for
     the Mainte-
     nance and
     Production
     Center
(3)  Furniture          250,000                    100% of for-
                                                   eign expendi-
                                                   tures, 100%
                                                   of local ex-
                                                   penditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and
                                                   80% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   for other
                                                   items
                                                   procured
                                                   locally
                                      Amount of
                        Amount        the Swiss
                        of the      Contribution
                        Credit        Allocated
                       Allocated     (Expressed       % of
                      (Expressed      in Swiss      Expendi-
                        in SDR         Francs       tures to
     Category        Equivalent)     Equivalent)   be Financed
(4)  Equipment,                       6,880,000    100% of for-
     books and                                     eign expendi-
     instructional                                 tures, 100%
     materials                                     of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and
                                                   80% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   for other
                                                   items
                                                   procured
                                                   locally
Page  8
(5)  Design and                         640,000    100%
     engineering
(6)  Fellowships                      2,080,000    100%
(7)  Operating costs                    640,000    42%
(8)  Consultants'                     8,000,000    100%
     services and
     studies
(9)  Refunding of                       320,000    Amount due
     Project                                       pursuant to
     Preparation                                   Section
     Advance                                       2.02(d)
                                                   of this
                                                   Agreement
(10) Unallocated        350,000       1,520,000
                      _________      __________
     TOTAL           2,700,000       20,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs"  means fuel, oil, lubricants,
consumable  materials,  spare  parts,  equipment  maintenance  and
repairs, and salaries required by the NPI.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  reduce shortages of
professional manpower in the  Lao  People's Democratic Republic by
training engineers in the  basic disciplines required for develop-
ment, and to improve the quality of technician training program.
     The  Project  consists  of  the  following,  subject  to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
     The  strengthening  of  NPI   through  the  construction  and
improvement of educational facilities and staff housing, provision
of equipment  and  instructional  materials,  provision of consul-
tants' services and fellowships,  and  the  carrying out of sector
studies and a training program of NPI's personnel.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Laos may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Furniture may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded on the
basis  of  local  competitive   bidding,  advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Minor  items  of  equipment,  computer  and  office supplies,
paper, books and  other  instructional  materials grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost  less  than $50,000 equivalent each, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,700,000,
may be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the basis of price
quotations from a list of  at least three suppliers from different
countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Workshop supplies, electronic  components,  tools and related
spare parts  estimated  to  cost  $5,000  equivalent  or  less per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $360,000, may be  procured  through direct contracting with the
suppliers or manufacturers thereof  under procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part E:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $50,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Page  10
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account on the  basis of statements of expendi-
ture. Such contracts shall be  retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out the Project
and in accordance with  a  timetable  agreed with the Association,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall establish  by  January  1, 1990 and there-
after operate a joint NPI/Industry Council with membership, powers
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The  Borrower  shall  include  the  teaching  of  the English
language in the NPI's curriculum.
3.   The Borrower shall carry  out a training program satisfactory
to the Association; to that  effect  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association for its comments, proposals with the number, types
and terms of reference  of  overseas and local training, including
the  training  programs  within  NPI,  and  the  trainee selection
criteria and procedures to be used.
4.   The Borrower shall,  within  the  framework of the Borrower's
salary adjustments, review the compensation  of NPI staff with the
view of keeping such compensation  competitive with that of indus-
trial and parastatal  engineers;  except  as  the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree,  such review will be undertaken
at mid-term and end of the Project.
5.   The Borrower shall  gradually  assume  the recurrent costs of
operating NPI  in  accordance  with  a  schedule  agreed  with the
Association so as  to  reach  about  two  thirds  of  such cost by
June 30, 1995.
6.   The Borrower shall,  by  March  31  and  September 30 of each
year, commencing in 1990, furnish the Association with a report on
the actions taken  or  proposed  to  be  taken  by the Borrower in
implementing the Project, in  such  detail  as the Association may
reasonably request.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 7 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)   the term "eligible  expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Swiss  Contribution  allocated  from  time  to  time to the
Page  11
eligible Categories in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)   the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Association Special  Account and (ii) an amount
equivalent to SwF 1,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss Contri-
bution  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Swiss  Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of  the  Special  Accounts  shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
     (a)   For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation  in  respect of each Special Account.
On the basis of such  request  or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account and  deposit  in the respective Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment  of  the  Special  Accounts, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Accounts at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Swiss
                Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the res-
                pective  Special  Account   such   amount  as  the
                Borrower shall have  requested  and  as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been made  out  of  such  Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been  justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as the Association
shall reasonably request,  furnish  to  the Association such docu-
ments and  other  evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account
in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Article  V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit or the
Page  12
Swiss Contribution allocated to  the eligible Categories, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to  Section  5.02  of  the General Conditions
with respect to the Project,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation  in  respect of the re-
spective Special Account.  Thereafter,  withdrawal from the Credit
Account  or  the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  of  the  remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  or  the  Swiss  Contribution
allocated to the eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by  notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit  in  the  Special  Accounts as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Accounts
(or, if the Association shall  so  request, refund to the Associa-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further  deposit by the Association into
the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Accounts.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account or the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  for subsequent with-
drawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the  relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
