      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020111


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P075566                                         LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
 Lesotho                                         Transport & ICT                                    P119443,P119443



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-42370,IDA-48270,IDA-H2550,IDA-H6230,TF-           30-Jun-2011                                                              53,200,000.00
  90728

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  19-Oct-2006                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            38,500,000.00                                                 12,164,961.50

  Revised Commitment                                             38,472,221.49                                                 11,438,432.30

  Actual                                                         39,368,882.48                                                   9,646,614.31




 Sector(s)
 Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(67%):Central government administration(30%):Law and justice(1%):Sub-national government
 administration(1%):General transportation sector(1%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural services and infrastructure(33%):Administrative and civil service reform(17%):Trade facilitation and market access(17%):Infrastructure
 services for private sector development(17%):Urban planning and housing policy(16%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani             Kavita Mathur                       Christopher David Nelson            IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The original project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 4) was,
    "To enhance prospects for economic growth in the Recipient’s territory through provision of an efficient and integrated transport
    system that is safe and affordable to improve access to services and market opportunities for all across the Recipient’s territory".
    The project development objective as sated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4) was,
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



     "Lesotho’s citizens are less isolated and have improved access to services and market opportunities, through a better managed,
     more complete, safe and affordable transport system".
     The revised project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (page 2) was,
     " To improve connectivity in selected transport networks in the Recipient’s territory".
     This assessment is based on the original and revised project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreements.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     11-Sep-2011


c.   Components
     Component One. Policy and Institutional Reform in the Transport Sector. Appraisal estimate US$10.04 million, additional financing
     estimate US$10.32 million, actual cost US$10.44 million. This component planned to support the Government’s proposed institutional
     reforms in the roads sector. There were two sub-components.
     Sub component one included advisory services for implementation support to central and local governments, capacity building and
     acquiring equipment for the Roads Directorate (RD) and local authorities, training of staff deployed to other public sector activities
     following the organizational changes in the roads sector and preparing for private sector involvement in road construction activities.
     Sub component two included technical assistance and institutional support for implementing key reforms articulated in the Government’s
     Letter of Sector Policy (1995). Areas included, designing road safety programs (such as, establishing driver training, examination and
     vehicle inspection systems, purchasing traffic surveillance equipment and creating a road safety council), designing a database and
     Geographic Information System (GIS), designing a Road Fund (RF) for improving cost recovery and achieving full sufficiency for the RF by
     2010, improving the RF’s management and monitoring mechanisms, building stakeholder awareness program, financing studies (on topics
     such as, basic access, mobility, Intermediate means of transport and alternative surfacing standards), developing a local construction
     industry development plan, institutionalizing environmental management, upgrading the Lesotho Road Management System (LRMP)
     (including a survey of road conditions for the Roads branch, annual review of the Roads Branch, Department of Rural and Urban roads),
     evaluating options for implementing computerization in the department of traffic, vehicle registers, licenses and data, supporting
     capabilities in social assessment and monitoring, gender and HIV/AIDS issues and technical assistance support to the Department of
     Rural Roads, Roads Branch and Roads Directorate.
     Component Two. Infrastructure Development. Appraisal estimate US$21.25 million, additional financing estimate US$44.52 million,
     actual cost US$63.86 million. This component supported the Government’s prioritized program for key road network improvements.
      Activities included: (i) Improving the Northern Corridor through emergency repairs on the paved section of the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road.
     (ii) Constructing two bridges over the Senqu and Senqunyane rivers and their approaches and a limited length of access road. (iii)
     Upgrading rural roads (including 25 km of the Mantsonyane-Lesobeng road and 8 km of the Likotopong-Lintas Feeder roads). (iv)
     Constructing footbridges in the Senqu/Senqunyane area and undertaking HIV/AIDS interventions.
     Component Three. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Appraisal estimate US2.78 million, additional financing estimate
     US$3.28 million, actual cost US$3.28 million. Activities included, technical assistance for project implementation and Planning Units and
     support for monitoring and evaluation in the areas of HIV/AIDS, gender, and poverty alleviation.
     Revised Components.
     The Financing agreement was amended and Additional financing was approved in 2010 through a level one restructuring in September
     2012. The following changes were made.
     • Cover the cost overruns associated with the construction of two bridges.
     • Activities pertaining to two junction roads (Teyateyaneng-Mapoterng and Nyenye-Makhoroana) were scaled up. Both roads were
     damaged by extensive floods in March2011 and required complete rehabilitation (instead of the previously envisaged periodic
     maintenance works)
       Component One. Formulation of Appropriate Institutional Reform Policy for the Transport Sector: Estimated cost at appraisal
       US$10.04 million, additional financing estimated cost US$10.32 million, actual cost at closure US$10.44 million. This component which
       planned to support the Government’s proposed institutional reforms in the roads sector, had two sub-components.
       Sub component one included advisory services for implementation support at central and local government levels, capacity building and
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



     acquisition of equipment for the Roads Directorate (RD) and local authorities, training of staff deployed to other public sector activities
     following the organizational changes in the roads sector and preparing for private sector involvement in road construction activities.
     Sub component two included technical assistance and institutional support for implementing the key reforms articulated in the
     Government’s Letter of Sector Policy (1995). Areas included, designing roadsafety programs (such as, through establishing driver
     training, examination and vehicle inspection systems, purchasing traffic surveillance equipment and creating a road safety council),
     designing a database and Geographic Information System (GIS), designing a Road Fund (RF) for improving cost recovery and
     achieving full sufficiency for the RF by 2010, improving the RF’s management and monitoring mechanisms, building stakeholder
     awareness program, financing studies (on topics such as basic access, mobility, Intermediate means of transport and alternative
     surfacing standards), developing a local construction industry development plan, institutionalizing environmental management,
     upgrading the Lesotho Road Management System (LRMP) (including through a survey of road conditions for the Roads branch, annual
     review of the Roads Branch, Department of Rural and Urban roads), evaluating the options for implementing computerization in the
     department of traffic, implementing computerization of vehicle registers, licenses and data, supporting capabilities in social assessment
     and monitoring, gender and HIV/AIDS issues, and technical assistance support to the Department of Rural Roads, Roads Branch and
     Roads Directorate.
     Component Two. Infrastructure Development. Estimated cost at appraisal US$21.25 million. Additional financing estimated cost
     US$44.52 million, actual cost at closure US$63.86 million. This component planned to support the Government’s prioritized program for
     key road network improvements. Activities included: (i) Improving the Northern Corridor through emergency repairs on the paved
     section Oxbow-Mokhotlong road. (ii) Constructing two bridges over the Senqu and Senqunyane rivers and their approaches and a
     limited length of access road. (iii) Upgrading rural roads (including 25 km of the Mantsonyane_lesobeng road and 8 km of the
     Likotopong-Lintas Feeder roads). (iv) Constructing footbridges in the Senqu/Senqunyane area, Intermediate means of transport and
     undertaking HIV/AIDS interventions.
     Component Three. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Estimated cost at appraisal US2.78 million, additional
     financing estimated cost US$3.28 million, actual cost at closure US$3.28 million. Activities included, technical assistance for theproject
     implementation and the Planning Units and support for monitoring and evaluation in the areas of HIV/AIDS, gender, and poverty
     alleviation.
     The Financing agreement was amended and Additional financing was approved in 2010 through a level One Restructuring in
     September 2012. The following changes were made to the project.
     Activities pertaining to two junction roads (Teyateyaneng-Mapoterng and Nyenye-Makhoroana) were scaled up. Both roads were
     heavily damaged by extensive floods in March2011 and required complete rehabilitation (instead of the previously envisaged periodic
     maintenance works).
     The project development objective and the results framework were modified. Two new Project Development Indicators were added
     (including a core mandatory indicator) and one indicator was dropped (discussed in section 10b).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project cost. Appraisal Estimate (including baseline cost, costs associated with physical and price contingencies and Project
    Preparation Facility advance): US$38. 20 million. There were cost overruns due to a combination of factors, including, inaccurate
    assumptions regarding original design; increase in the prices of fuel, bituminous products and other materials; decline in the value of the
    US$ against other key currencies; and higher than expected bid prices due to increase in infrastructure construction in preparation for the
    2010 Soccer World Cup in South Africa. Estimated project cost following the approval of Additional Financing was US$59.67 million. The
    actual project cost was US$79.13 million.
    Project Financing. The project was financed by an IDA grant. Appraisal commitment was US$23.50 million. Additional financing of
    US$15.00 million was approved in 2010. This IDA grant was from the Pilot Crisis Response Window (a window created to respond to
    countries affected by the negative impact of the global financial crisis). At closure, US$36.00 million was disbursed.
    There was co-financing from the European Development Fund (EDF). Appraisal estimate US$9.50 million. Revised estimate following the
    additional financing for the project US$10.32 million. Actual amount disbursed at closure was US$10.32 million. At the prevailing
    exchange rate, when the trust fund closed on December 31, 2012, US$0.74 million was not spent and this was returned to the EDF.
    Borrower Contribution. At appraisal, the borrower contribution was estimated at US$5.20 million. Revised estimate following additional
    financing was US$10.85 million. At closure the contribution was more than planned at US$32.81 million.
    Dates: The project closing date was extended three times. The first restructuring. on December 10, 2010 extended the closing date
    for Trust Fund activities by an additional year, due to the initial delays associated with signing of the administrative agreement between
    the European Community and the Bank. The second restructuring on September 2011, extended the closing date for the Trust Fund
    activities by two more years to allow additional time for completion of component one activities. The third restructuring in September
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



    2012 restructuring modified the project objective and the results framework, reallocated funds between project activities and retroactively
    extended the project closing date. The fourth restructuring extended the project closing date by an additional year. The final restructuring
    on February 2015, reallocated funds between project activities.
    The project closed four years behind schedule on 06/30/2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Before Restructuring. Substantial. After Restructuring. High.
   The original project development objective was broad as compared to the revised objective which was focused and clearly defined. The
   project development objective was relevant in the country context. Given its landlocked location, external connectivity to ports in neighboring
   coastal countries through reliable road links, was important for accessing external markets and export diversification. And given that the
   incidence of poverty within the country was disproportionately more severe in the relatively inaccessible parts of the
   country, strengthening internal connectivity road links, was important for improving service delivery to population in isolated areas.
   The importance of the road sector to the economy was articulated in the following government documents. The Poverty Reduction Strategy
   Paper (PRSP) for the 2004/2005 and the 2006/2007 periods identified infrastructure development as the third priority of the country and also
   highlighted the need for improving transportation links as vital for realizing all strategic objectives of the poverty reduction strategy. The Sixth
   Development Plan of Lesotho for the 2004-2010 period, highlighted the need for both improving the country’s transport networks
   and improving the institutional capacity to manage the road assets of the country. The policy paper on Proposed Reforms for the road sector
   endorsed by the Cabinet in September 2005 highlighted the need for road sector reforms. These reforms included, restructuring the road
   administration into a Roads Directorate within the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, reducing administrative costs in the sector through
   organizational changes and reduction in staffing, preparing for private sector involvement in road maintenance activities, decentralization and
   delegating responsibilities to local authorities for managing parts of the network and providing for self-financing mechanisms for funding road
   maintenance activities. The Government document “Vision 2020” identified investments in infrastructure (including in transport) as the third
   highest priority for the country in the coming years.
   The revised project development objective continues to be highly relevant to the Bank strategy for Lesotho. At appraisal, the Country
   Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the 2006-2009 period identified the need for increasing employment opportunities through higher economic
   growth, improved human development outcomes and decentralized public service delivery in the transport sector. The Bank’s CPS for the
   2010-2014 period was formulated in the wake of the global economic recession. Although the government had initiated significant spending
   cuts, the CPS identified the need for getting better value for public resources through increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of service
   delivery and the need for laying the foundation for economic competitiveness and export diversification in the coming years.




   Rating                                                                                Revised Rating
   Substantial                                                                           High


b. Relevance of Design

   Original Design. Substantial.
   The original design included both road sector investments and the institutional dimension such as developing policy capability, developing
   transport planning and addressing road safety factors. The outputs associated with component one activities which aimed at institutional reform
   can be expected to contribute to improved management of the road sector, improvement in the financing mechanisms for funding road
   maintenance and developing an integrated transport system (including other transport sub-sectors such as Civil Aviation, Rail and Inland water
   transport) This in combination with component two activities aimed at road investments on the targeted sections of the road network can be
   expected to contribute to providing an efficient and integrated transport system that is, safe and affordable, and this can be expected to
   contribute to enhancing the prospects for growth in Lesotho.
   The original design was however broad and the activities planned by the project were far less comprehensive than implied by the complex
   objective. It is not clear how improving connectivity through the road network would directly contribute to enhancing economic growth. This was
   a shortcoming in the original project design.
   Revised Design: High.
   The revised project objective was clearly defined and focused only on improving road connectivity in selected road networks of the country, as
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



       the institutional reforms had been completed by then. The link between the project activities, their outputs and outcomes were clear and the
       intended outcomes of the revised objective, were measurable. The revised design also addressed the need for rehabilitating rural roads that
       had been severely damaged by floods. Rehabilitation of such roads was a priority for the country in the wake of the global financial crisis.




       Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                        High



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective

     To enhance prospects for economic growth through improving access to services and market opportunities in Lesotho.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Advisory services for planning and implementation support was provided both at the central and at the local government level as
        targeted. This included development of a blueprint for planning and change management, appointment of a road safety advisor for a
        period of 12 months and development of the needed systems, plans, studies and technical manuals.
        • The Road Directorate (RD) within the Ministry of Public Works and Transport was established under the Roads Directorate Act, 2010.
        Responsibility for about 500 km of local roads was transferred to the Ministry of Local Government in line with Lesotho’s decentralization
        policy.
        • At project closure, the RD was fully operational and all RF staff were recruited in accordance with the Legal Notice for Road Fund
        Regulation 2005. Administrative expenses as total expenditure of Road Fund (RF) fell from 25% at the baseline to 12.8% at project
        closure. This was as compared to the target of 12%. Recruitment of staff to the RF was in accordance with the Legal Notice for Road
        Fund Regulation 2005.
        • 87% of the periodic and routine maintenance requirements of the total national network was through road user charges at project
        closure as compared to the target of 80%.
        • Road Safety Council was established and functional at project closure as targeted.
        • Training was provided for the 900 personnel who were deployed to other public sector activities resulting from changes in the
        organizational arrangements as targeted. About 800 former Department of Rural Roads and Roads Branch staff were retrained including
        through courses organized and carried out through the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
        • Road Safety Program activities were held as targeted for increasing the awareness of the need for road safety among
        stakeholders. The program included, establishing a driver training and examination system, a vehicle inspection system, a road accident
        database, acquiring traffic surveillance equipment, and support for the creation of the National Road Safety Council (NRSC). The NRSC
        was approved by the Cabinet and a road safety policy was drafted. Education and road safety awareness campaigns were implemented
        and a training plan was developed to provide road safety officers accreditation. 20 road safety workshops were undertaken as compared
        to the target of 25.
        • The Integrated Geographic Information System (GIS) was installed as a tool for planning and monitoring purposes and staff were
        trained for using the system as targeted.
        • Study of basic access and mobility (including Intermediate Means of Transport) and an urban planning and transport study was
        completed as targeted. An integrated policy and strategic roadmap for aviation, rail, Intermediate Means of Transport and water transport
        was developed as targeted.
        • The upgrading of the Lesotho Road Management System (LRMS) study was completed as targeted. This included a mechanized road
        condition survey, annual review of the Roads Branch (RB) and Department of Rural Roads (DRR), a Roads Directorate (RD) future
        program and expanding the system for urban roads.
        • Technical assistance was provided for supporting capabilities in social assessment and monitoring, gender issues, HIV/AIDS and GIS
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



   capabilities.
   • 40 km of non rural roads were rehabilitated at project closure as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of 20km.
   • HIV/AIDS interventions were undertaken as targeted (this included distributing brochures, education, providing cell phone radio and
   stretches to local communities).
   • Monitoring and evaluation system was established and functioning at project closure as targeted.


Outcomes before restructuring

   • At project closure, according to the Lesotho Road Management System, 38% of the roads were reported to be in good condition and
   50% in fair condition as compared to the original target of 39% in good condition and 46% in fair condition.
   • Average travel cost in targeted project areas fell by 40% at project closure as per the revised target. This exceeded the original target of
   20%.




Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
To improve connectivity in selected transport networks in Lesotho.

Revised Rationale
Outputs

   • In addition to the outputs discussed above, the following outputs were completed as per the revised objective.
   • Two high level bridges (the Senqu-Senqunyane bridges), their approaches and road links along the South Eastern Corridor, which had
   been subject to cost overruns initially, were completed at project closure.
   • 64 km of rural roads that were seriously damaged by floods, were rehabilitated as targeted.


Outcomes

   • 42% of the rural population had access to an all season road within the project area as per the revised target at project closure.
   • 9,372 people, of which 52% were women, benefitted from the project at project closure as per the revised target.


A Social Impact Study was conducted at closure to compare the findings of the baseline study. The studies focused on some communities in
the vicinity of the Senqu-Sengunyane project area. The ICR (Annex 5, page 47) provides few details on the methodology followed in
conducting the survey. The main conclusions of the study are summarized below.

   • The civil works construction associated with the roads and bridges improved access to social services, educational facilities and
   businesses.
   • Access to health services was considerably better because it was no longer necessary to make difficult river crossings and taxis
   provided a door to door service.
   • Enrollment in primary schools in the area around the bridges increased significantly.
   • People could supplement their income by traveling to South Africa to buy goods and then resell them locally at a profit on their return.
   • Improvements were also reported in access to church and funeral services and to local courts and administrative areas.




Revised Rating
Substantial
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)




5. Efficiency

Economic Analysis.
An economic analysis was conducted at appraisal and closure for the Roma-Sekake corridor, which included rehabilitation of two bridges and
their access roads. This subcomponent accounted for 27 percent of the project cost. The analysis was based on project benefits assumed to
come through time savings. The ex post Economic Rate of Return (EIRR) at 12 percent discount rate was around 15 percent as compared to
the ex-ante EIRR of approximately 16 percent. At closure an economic analysis was also conducted for the rehabilitation of rural roads that
were damaged by floods. The main benefits were assumed to come from savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time savings. The EIRR
for this component was estimated to be about 4 percent at 12 percent discount rate. The completion of the remaining link in the Roma-Sekake
corridor (that is, the two bridges and their approach road) effectively opened up a new main road. Parts of the road did not exist before the
construction and movement between villages in the area was only by horseback, by foot or via ferries prior to the construction of this road.
Administrative and Operational inefficiencies
The costs of rehabilitating the bridges was underestimated with their actual cost being higher than expected at appraisal, due to a combination
of factors including, questionable preliminary design assumptions, substantial increase in prices of raw materials and substantial increase in bid
prices (with the lowest bid 85 percent more than estimated). The relatively long time taken for completing the investment component of the
project left little time for implementing sector reforms (representing 25 percent of the original project cost), and the recommendations of
some studies need to be updated. There were time overruns with the project closing about four years beyond the originally scheduled closing
date and despite this extension, some activities were incomplete at closure.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            27.00
 Appraisal                                                               16.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            27.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            15.00
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objective and design was rated as Substantial before restructuring and High after restructuring. Efficacy of the original objectives
when 67% of funds was disbursed was Substantial and efficacy of the revised objective when the balance was disbursed was
Substantial. Efficiency was rated as Modest as there were significant administrative and operational inefficiencies.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)




Government Commitment. Although about 87% of the road maintenance costs were financed increased user charges and reduced
administrative costs as compared to 77% when the project commenced, road user charges were not adjusted after 2010 and given inflation,
volatility in fuel prices and fluctuations in the volumes of traffic, there is modest risk that sufficient funds may not be available for undertaking
road maintenance activities. Further, although a policy paper compiled by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) recommended the
establishment of a National Road Safety Council (NRSC) and the laws pertaining to the Road Traffic Act was updated in 2010, there has been
on follow up actions pertaining to road safety.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry


        The project was prepared based on the lessons learnt from a prior Bank financed roads project in Lesotho (Lesotho: Road
        Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project). The collaboration with the co financiers (EU) aided in preparing activities aimed at better
        coordination of other transport modes with the dominant road mode. Apart from the standard financial covenants, there was a
        requirement that the Government establish and make operational a semi-autonomous Roads Directorate by 2008. Several risks were
        identified (including high risk associated with whether the government would continue with implementing reforms in the sector,
        whether the Road Fund would allocate sufficient funds for funding maintenance activities,the transparency of the road funds agency
        and capacity constraints within the Roads Directorate) and risk mitigation measures were incorporated at preparation. Provisions were
        made at appraisal for compliance with safeguards (discussed in section 11).
           • As discussed in section 5, the design significantly underestimated costs associated with rehabilitation of
           bridges. This necessitated the need for division of the work into two stages, with stage two activities funded through Additional
           financing. The preparation team underestimated the administrative difficulties associated the negotiations with the co financier,
           regarding design details. This delayed startup.
           • The M&E did not include key outcome indicators for monitoring the sector reform initiatives which represented about 25% of the
           total project co




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     There were about 20 supervision missions spread over a nine year period. Although the supervision missions were reasonably frequent,
     some missions lacked safeguard specialists.

        • Some ineligible expenditures were financed, due to the disbursement to a contracting firm which had been debarred for five years
        commencing in January 2009, because of collusive projects on a Bank-funded project in the Philippines (discussed in section 11).
        • The Borrower’s ICR (page 63) states that “the quality and effectiveness of some Task Team Leaders was inadequate.” And that
        “some failed to elaborate remedial measures, in a timely manner, when asked to resolve a problem.” And there were delays in
        approving Additonal Financing Agreement. There were safeguard issues and safeguards impacts were underestimated after Additional
        Financing had been provided for the project (discussed in section 11).


     When the rating for one dimension is in the satisfactory range, while the rating for the other is in the unsatisfactory range, the rating for
     overall Bank performance depends on the outcome rating. Since the outcome rating was in the satisfactory range, the overall Ban
     performance is moderately satisfactory.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   There was compliance with all covenants at preparation. The covenant that the government establish and operationalize a semi-
   autonomous Roads Directorate (RD) by the end of 2008 was also adhered to, as the RD was fully operational by the stipulated date. The
   Government also demonstrated its commitment to the project by contributing more than planned by way of counterpart funding.

     • Although the Road Fund had been increasing its funding for road maintenance activities in the early years of the project, there had
     been no increase since 2010 and regarding road safety, the government did not follow through following the recommendations of
     the National Road Safety Council.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MoPWT) was in charge of the overall management and implementation of the project, while
   other ministries, departments and agencies were involved in implementing specific project components. The Project Management Office
   was adequately staffed. Although there were financial management and procurement management issues, these were resolved during
   implementation.

     • The implementing agency did not fulfill the procedural requirement of checking the eligibility of bidders from the list of firms and
     individuals debarred and suspended.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   There were three outcome indicators: key Baseline data was collected before project effectiveness and this in conjunction with the
   Geographic Information System (GIS) that had been established was used to monitor the key outcome indicators. At the preparation
   stage, the project also piloted a participatory GIS methodology to capture community level information on the gender dimensions of
   mobility and access to services.
   The M&E design did not include key outcome indicators for monitoring sector reforms and road safety features.




b. M&E Implementation
   Appropriate core indicators were added when additional financing was approved for the project. This included, the mandatory rural
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



   accessibility index (the share of population with access to all-season road within the project area) and “direct project beneficiaries, including
   the percentage of women" who benefited from the project.




c. M&E Utilization
   The indicators were used for monitoring performance of the project.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as Category B for Environmental Assessment purposes. Three safeguard policies were triggered by the project:
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01): Physical Cultural Resources – mainly avoidance of graveyard sites (OP 4.11): Involuntary
   Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The safeguards instruments prepared at the appraisal stage include, a environmental and social assessment, a
   resettlement policy framework and a resettlement action plan. The environmental and social assessment was publicly disclosed at the
   appraisal stage.
   There were delays in recruiting environmental and social development specialists during the implementation phase. Although these
   positions were to be filled by the project implementation unit in the first year, they were filled only in the second year and so, during this
   period, progress reports on safeguards matters were not produced.
    Although the assessment of safeguards impact was deemed to be satisfactory for the original project, the assessment of safeguards impact
   was not satisfactory when Additional Financing was approved for the project. Environmental mitigation measures were not systematically
   monitored nor documented and workers safety measures were only partially incorporated and resettlement activities were not identified. The
   ICR notes that new culverts resulting in changes in project design induced adverse impacts on farmland and the ICR mission notes that
   stones and loose material had fallen onto the roads. Although initial assessment identified resettlement for only two households, later
   assessment indicated that compensation had to be provided for many strips of farmland, where the existing alignment was improved or the
   road widened to provide bus and taxi stops. The ICR notes that a new taxi rank was under construction at a site adjacent to the center of the
   site, but as no formal engagement had been made with the taxi association. It is not clear from the ICR whether the resettlement activities
   were complete at project closure.
   Although the incidence of deaths due to HIV/AIDS had declined from 695.1 in 2000 to 582.9 in 2012, the incidence of deaths due to
   HIV/AIDS in Lesotho was still high by global standards. Given that the incidence of deaths due to HIV/AIDS was particularly high in the
   transport sector, where a high infection rate of freight and passenger operators was found, expanded HIV/AIDS activities and strategic
   partnerships were incorporated as project activities (through supplying condoms) to enhance the efforts by the government to fight HIV/AIDS
   in Lesotho. Prostitutes frequented the construction camp but because of its remote location, supplies of condoms were not made available
   at the project site and the social impacts study concluded at the completion stage indicated that the HIV/AIDS infection rates had increased
   in the project site.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. At the appraisal stage, the risks associated with the financial management capacity of the implementing agency
   was deemed to be low, as the agency had implemented a prior Bank financed project and also had experienced staff. However, there were
   financial management issues through the project implementation phase, such as delays associated with submission of the audit report in
   March 2012. During the implementation phase, support was provided to the staff, both in the form of training in the country and in South
   Africa. The ICR (page 12) notes that there were improvements eventually and unqualified audit reports were submitted at project closure.
   Procurement. For all purchases and contracts, the project adhered to the Government’s existing policies and procedures for locally financed
   procurement, which were in in harmony with the Bank’s procurement guidelines. For international procurement of works, goods and
   consulting services, the Bank’s standard procurement guidelines were used.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



   Some ineligible expenditures were submitted by the Government and financed by the Bank at the implementation phase. A firm had been
   contracted for financing some project activities in stage one works. This firm subsequently had been debarred from bidding on any further
   Bank financed activities for a period of five years because of alleged collusive practices in Philippines. The World Bank Integrity Department
   had conducted detailed investigations and sanctions had been imposed against the firm concerned. The firm was nevertheless reappointed
   by the Government for undertaking stage two works after the Additional Financing had been approved in 2010 for stage two activities. Since
   invoices to the value of US$4.35 million were paid by the Bank for these activities, these expenditures were deemed to be ineligible. The ICR
   notes that the matter was resolved at the government request by providing substitute invoices for stage one works and through reallocation
   of resources between project activities.
   There were significant delays associated with procurement and this affected the utilization of the available grant money from EU
   necessitating refunding the unused funds to EU when the contribution agreement ended.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from the experience of implementing this project.
(1) There is s need for better due diligence when making project cost estimates, Utilizing detailed rather than preliminary design
estimates and making provisions for an adequate contingency amount can be particularly useful in circumstances where the terrain is
difficult. A recurring pattern in this project was the underestimation of costs, that was partly responsible for the delays in the implementation
phase.
(2) The Bank's internal systems need to adequately warn staff and clients of debarred contractors when bidding procedures are in
progress. In the case of this project, clearly the Bank was at fault in implementing systems for identifying debarred contractors from the bidding
process. This however has been rectified after the event by changes to the Bank's Manual of Procedures intended to enhance the Bank's
internal system.
(3) The project design should take into account the when investment components are complemented with policy reform components,
the risk of delays to the investment component should not deter the postponement of the reform component. The transport sector
reforms in the case of this project were hampered by a lack of funds to continue the foundation for reforms that had been put in place. There
was a disconnect in the case of this project between the investment component that took four years longer than anticipated to complete while
the reform initiatives were funded only up to 2012.
(4) Adequate maintenance arrangements for road project need continuous attention and a long term solution. Although maintenance
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS-Integr Transp SIL (FY07)(P075566)



needs of the national roads in the case of this project had improved, this matter needs to be pursued further, both in terms of funding and the
capacity building of the Roads Directorate and through encouraging the use performance based-contracts, both in the case of national roads
and in the context of rural roads.
(5) For road safety reform initiatives to be effective, both commitment from the government and a comprehensive strategy are
required. It would be useful to consider placing certain conditions within the project's designs to incentivize the Borrower's to complete the
reform process pertaining to road safety.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The discussion of compliance with the environmental and social safeguards in the ICR (page 11) is unclear and it is not clear whether there
was compliance with the safeguards at project closure. There is a discrepancy in the ICR regarding the project closing date. The ICR's
discussion of the efficiency section is confusing and while the data sheet lists the project closing date as 06/30/2015, that is, four years later
than originally planned, the ICR in page 7, notes that the project closed some three and a half years later than originally planned.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
