                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                                Report No: 29637-AR

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (FSLT-71710)

                                               ON A

                                    LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$500 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                            FOR AN

                 Argentina Economic and Social Transition Structural Adjustment Loan




                                          June 30, 2004




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = The Argentine Peso
                     ARG$1.00 = US$ 0.36
                      US$ 1.00 = ARG$2.8
                         (March 2004)
                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


     BCRA          Banco Central de la Republica Argentina
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     IMF           International Monetary Fund
     CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
     ESTSAL        Economic and Social Transition Structural Adjustment Loan
     MUP           Monetary Unification Program
     PFO           Financing agreements between provinces and the Federal
                   Government
     PSR           Project Status Report
     QAG           Quality Assurance Group
     SINTyS        Sistema Nacional de Identificación Tributario y Social
     SSAL          Special Structural Adjustment Loan



                 Vice President:   David de Feranti
              Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
               Sector Manager      Mauricio Carrioza
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Paul Levy and Axel van Trotsenburg jointly

                                        ARGENTINA
           Argentina Economic and Social Transition Structural Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P083074                                                  Project Name: Argentina Economic and Social
                                                                     Transition Structural Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Frank Earwaker                                          TL Unit: LCC7A
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Argentina Economic and Social Transition                 L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71710
                            Structural Adjustment Loan
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (50%); General public
                            administration sector (20%); Other social services (20%); Health
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Other economic
                            management (P); Social risk coping (P); Child health (S); Population
                            and reproductive health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/21/2003                                     Effective: 05/28/2003                05/28/2003
     Appraisal: 04/21/2003                                         MTR: 06/05/2003                  06/05/2003
      Approval: 05/22/2003                                      Closing: 08/29/2003                 08/29/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ARGENTINE REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Feranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Axel van Trotsenburg                           Paul Levy jointly with Axel van Trotsenburg
ICR Primary Author:             Frank Earwaker


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
                      Note: The QAG rating of quality at entry was "Marginally Satisfactory"

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background

        At the end of 2001, after grappling in vain with an economic crisis that was spinning out
of control, the government of Argentina abandoned the currency board arrangements that had
kept the Argentine peso at par with the US dollar for the previous ten years. The result was a
massive devaluation of the peso to less than one third of its previously pegged value. In parallel,
real GDP declined by almost 11 percent in 2002, unemployment rose to over 20 percent and more
than half of the population fell below the poverty line. The government defaulted on its debt and
there was a massive dislocation of financial arrangements throughout the economy both because
of the government default and also because, for many years, business structures as well as
commercial and private contracts had been predicated upon the premise that the peso and the
dollar were interchangeable. An extremely constrained fiscal and monetary situation during 2001
prompted many provinces and, indeed, the Federal Government itself to issue paper obligations
which circulated as currencies in parallel to the Argentine peso and which became known as
"quasi-monies". Quasi-monies compounded the already difficult task of managing fiscal and
monetary policy in the aftermath of a massive devaluation.

        The social impact of the crisis was devastating. During 2002, poverty increased
dramatically. The number of poor grew by roughly 20 percentage points to more than half of the
total population while the number of extreme poor nearly doubled. Apart from the direct impact
on employment and incomes, the economic crisis also had a strong negative effect on the delivery
of basic services to the poor. About 12 percent of the Argentine population lost their health
insurance coverage, putting additional pressure on already over-stretched public hospitals and
health centers. The government's ability to respond was impaired by severe fiscal constraints and
administrative dislocation.

        The economic and financial turmoil of 2002 also had a profoundly disrupting effect upon
the performance of the Bank loan portfolio. Budgetary authorizations were interrupted and
counterpart funding was not forthcoming. Many contractors and consultants suspended
operations after it became apparent that the terms of their contracts would change when the
Convertibility Plan was abandoned. Many parts of the public administration ceased to function
until new rules could be established. Bank staff efforts were focused upon restructuring
operations and seeking ways to compensate for a lack of counterpart support and there was a
hiatus in new lending during 2002 until the situation could be clarified and stabilized. More
fundamentally, the crisis completely undermined the foundations of the 2000 CAS and the CAS
Progress Report of 2001. The CAS program was overtaken by events. While the 2000 CAS had
contemplated a collapse of the Convertability Plan as a possible downside scenario, it had not
elaborated on the likely consequences of such a scenario other than to indicate what may be an
appropriate Bank response. In that context, it was proposed that the Bank should "focus on
social protection, restructuring the economy and financial system" which, indeed, became the core
of the Bank's response in 2002-03. The Board was kept apprised of the country situation with
frequent briefings from staff and management.



                                                 - 2 -

         In 2003, Bank lending resumed first with a US$600 million investment loan in support of a
government sponsored workfare program aimed at heads of households (Jefes de Hogar).
Following upon that, the US$500 million Economic and Social Transition Structural Adjustment
Loan (ESTSAL) marked a return to adjustment lending in support of the government's recovery
program. The ESTSAL was followed by a poverty-focused Provincial Maternal Child Health
Sector Adjustment Loan for US$750 million, approved in October 2003. That loan supported the
introduction of a maternal and child health insurance program targeting families in uninsured
households.

Objectives of the operation

         In the Program Document for this operation, the objectives of the loan are expressed as
follows: "The proposed structural adjustment loan would support the country in (i) taking
incremental steps towards the reestablishment of a sound basis for growth and development, and
(ii) strengthening efforts to protect social programs, thereby helping to mitigate the adverse
effects of the economic crisis on the poor in Argentina. The proposed operation is part of a
concerted effort by multilateral institutions to help Argentina during the transition period and
lay the groundwork for a more comprehensive reform program to be developed and implemented
with the new administration scheduled to take office at the end of May 2003." (paragraph 85).

         It is evident from this summary statement that the operation was conceived as only one
part of a much broader program of assistance that was being assembled by the international
financial community in support of stabilization and recovery in Argentina. No claim was made
that the program supported by the loan would, in and of itself, fundamentally change the
prospects for sustained growth and poverty reduction. The emphasis was clearly placed upon
"taking incremental steps" and "strengthening efforts" in order to prepare the way for more
far-reaching reforms.

         The ESTSAL came at the very end of the Duhalde administration when the government
was still preoccupied with crisis-management. Nevertheless, this operation addressed issues that
were of relevance beyond the political transition. They considerably facilitated economic
management for the successor government. In particular, the reestablishment of a single unified
money through the retirement of quasi-monies was essential for the orderly conduct of monetary
policy and it constituted an innovative focus for Bank assistance.

         Although this loan was disbursed in a single tranche at loan effectiveness it involved more
than a simple endorsement of actions already-completed by the government. A policy matrix in
the Program Document clearly identified the expected outcomes of government measures which
implied that diligent follow-up action on the part of the government was an integral part of the
original objective.

         At the same time, the country context for this operation was one in which the government
was facing exceptional financing requirements. Since Argentina was cut off from access to the
international financial markets, it was heavily reliant upon multilateral lenders to supply those



                                                 - 3 -

financing requirements including debt service due to the multilateral lenders themselves. A
sufficient resource transfer was, therefore, an important aspect of the operation for the authorities,
both to keep the public finances afloat and as a demonstration of good faith on the part of the
Bank at a time of political transition and uncertainty.

        A policy matrix in the Program Document defines in more specific terms the objectives of
this operation. It identifies actions already completed by the Argentine authorities prior to Board
presentation as well as the outcomes expected from those actions. Expected outcomes are
compared with actual outcomes in Annex 1 of this ICR.

3.2 Revised Objective:

N/A

3.3 Original Components:

        Leaving aside macroeconomic conditionality which provided a link to the ongoing
IMF-supported program and which may be regarded as a prior condition rather than a component
of the ESTSAL, the policy matrix for this operation reveals two principle components, each of
which has sub-components.

        There was an economic component which focused on retiring quasi-monies and
reestablishing a unified monetary system that would better facilitate the orderly conduct of
monetary policy. That economic component, in turn, had two parts. The first concerned the
design, establishment and implementation by the federal government and by the provinces of a
Monetary Unification Program for redeeming quasi-monies. A second and complementary
component was to establish a fiscal framework that would provide the provinces with sufficient
funds to finance the redemption of quasi monies and, at the same time, reinforce fiscal discipline at
the provincial level to better ensure that there would be no further emission of new quasi-monies.

        A separate social component of the operation sought to safeguard and strengthen
government programs that were designed to ameliorate the poverty impact of the crisis. A major
focus of that component was to protect government social-emergency spending at a time of
exceptional fiscal constraint. To that end, the ESTSAL was supportive of the government's
decision to devote 8.6 percent of total expenditures in the 2003 national budget to
social-emergency spending, and within that overall rubric, to channel 1.4 percent of the 2003
national budget to emergency health spending. Another focus of the social component of the
ESTSAL was to improve monitoring and transparency of the Jefes de Hogar workfare program
by completing an impact evaluation study and by enhancing data collection, analysis and
cross-checking between data bases. The operation was also supportive of the government's
decision to establish a National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies.

        In the early stages of preparing this operation, Bank staff proposed a much more
substantial and extensive social component including the financing of teachers salaries that had
fallen into arrears as a result of the crisis. In the event, and for several reasons, those more
ambitious proposals did not materialize. As a result, and in two respects, the greater substance of



                                                    - 4 -

this operation lay with its economic components rather than with the social components. First,
the economic components (the withdrawal of quasi-monies and the strengthening of provincial
finances) were supportive of a newly intiated process that was still in the development stage as the
ESTSAL took shape. By way of contrast, the social component, for the greater part, simply
endorsed the already-approved 2003 budget. It also sought to strengthen the Jefes de Hogar
program. In preparing and appraising the economic components, Bank staff were more engaged
in the process itself. As the QAG panel observed, there were other Bank-supported operations
that could have accommodated the social components of this operation whereas the economic
components were quite unique and, in the context of the Bank's overall program to Argentina,
innovative.

3.4 Revised Components:

N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         A QAG report on this operation was issued on September 17, 2003. The overall
assessment of the report was that the quality of the operation at entry was only marginally
satisfactory. However, the QAG panel made it clear that a marginally satisfactory rating did not
reflect upon the project team or the line management but rather upon deficiencies of a broader
institutional nature in the Bank's response to the post-crisis situation in Argentina. The staff were
put under pressure to process this operation in an exceptionally short period of time because the
G7 had indicated that, during the political transition period in Argentina, the Bank, along with the
IMF and the IDB, should provide financial support to Argentina. As a result, the time elapsed
from the concept stage to loan approval was only three months. In view of the severe time and
institutional constraints, the panel considered that staff had performed very well in putting
together a complex operation.

         The QAG panel characterized this operation as a "stop-gap" effort that addressed
short-term needs because circumstances made it difficult to adequately consider longer-term
structural issues. Since the operation was appraised and approved shortly before a change of
government, it was not possible to assess the prospects for continued political commitment or
implementation capacity. While the IMF supported the loan and its own program was on track,
the policy and institutional environment was highly risky.

         The QAG panel also considered that the poverty impact of the operation had been
overstated. While the panel acknowledged that the withdrawal of quasi-currencies would have a
positive impact upon the poor, particularly pensioners and workers in low-paid employment, the
absence of any analysis concerning how the impact could be measured or how it would affect
different groups raised doubts as to the extent of the impact. Similarly, while the program
document cites likely positive results from protecting social expenditures in the budget, the QAG
panel considered that a lack of disaggregation between social groups and a failure to distinguish
between direct and indirect impacts, cast doubt on the magnitude of anticipated positive results.

         The assessment of the panel with respect to specific objectives and components of the



                                                 - 5 -

operation were as follows:

    With regard to the maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic framework, the view of the
    QAG panel was that, while the IMF-supported program was adequate in a narrow sense, it
    was not sufficiently robust to ensure longer-term sustainability. There were major structural
    concerns that remained un-addressed and, indeed, that could not be addressed under the
    prevailing political constraints or in the short-term.

    With regard to the reestablishment of a single unified monetary system through the elimination
    of quasi monies, and also with regard to the strengthening of fiscal management through a
    reduction of provincial fiscal deficits, the QAG panel acknowledged that these were important
    and necessary actions for the government to take. However, they felt that, in the absence of
    more far-reaching institutional and structural reforms, the measures fell short of what was
    needed to secure a solid foundation for sustained growth and poverty reduction. In the
    judgment of the panel, the economic actions supported by the operation did not justify a loan
    of the size and nature approved.

    With respect to the poverty and social aspects of the operation, the QAG panel considered
    that the project design did not measure up to the weight and importance attributed to them.
    The panel felt that the operation would have been strengthened by more discussion and
    explicit linkages relating to the engagement of civil society and other stakeholders. The sense
    of the panel also was that some of the benefits claimed for the social measures in this
    operation should be more accurately attributed to other Bank-supported initiatives specifically
    directed to social issues.

        Responding to the QAG report, the Region argued that, judged within the context of the
prevailing country situation, the ESTSAL was an appropriate and necessary transitional step
towards securing a foundation for more far-reaching policy and structural reforms. An IMF
program was in-place and on-track, thereby satisfying the customary criteria for adequate
macroeconomic policies. The management and the Boards of both the Fund and the Bank were
fully aware that the macroeconomic situation and the prevailing policy environment were very
difficult. Nevertheless, the strategic decision to conclude an operation with the outgoing interim
administration and to provide sufficient finance to avert additional financial distress for Argentina
was endorsed at the highest levels of management. Acting upon that decision, Bank staff and line
management designed an operation that was relevant, substantive and innovative. In doing so, it
contributed effectively to a resumption of growth and it prepared the ground for a renewed Bank
dialogue with the incoming administration. Whether or not the size of the loan was justified by
the range and depth of the reforms supported is a matter of judgment. The judgment of the QAG
panel was negative on that account. The judgment of senior management and the Board was
affirmative.

        The QAG panel was not able to foresee that the actual outcomes for Argentina in 2003,
with high growth and low inflation, would exceed all expectations. While actual outcomes do not
necessarily reflect upon the quality of this operation at entry, they do vindicate the judgment of
the Bank to proceed in a situation where the operational and policy environment was risky.



                                                  - 6 -

Furthermore, the judgement of this ICR is that quality at entry was satisfactory because a
substantive and innovative project design contributed significantly to stabilization. Stabilization
has been sustained and has, in turn, been an important factor underpinning growth.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        The principal objective of the ESTSAL, as stated in the policy matrix, was "to strengthen
Argentina's ability to resume growth". To that end, an action agenda was identified with a focus
on (i) incremental economic measures to establish a sound basis for growth and (ii) measures to
protect social programs and enhance their effectiveness. The outcome of that action agenda is
examined in Section 4.2 below by components. In overall terms the over-riding objective of
helping Argentina to resume growth was amply achieved. Growth in 2003 exceeded projections
by a very large margin. Whereas the policy matrix in the Program Document indicated that GDP
growth was expected to be 4 percent in 2003, the actual outcome was 8.7 percent. Prospects for
2004 are also good. Consensus forecasts for growth range between 6.5 and 8 percent. If that is
achieved, Argentina will have recovered a large part of the ground lost as a result of the 2001
crisis and the recession that led up to it.

        A full recovery, and sustained growth beyond the next year or two will depend upon the
successful implementation of structural and policy reforms in a number of key areas. However, a
medium- and long-term structural and policy reform agenda lies beyond the scope of the ESTSAL
which explicitly confined itself to the more modest objective of strengthening Argentina's ability
to "resume economic growth" (see policy matrix). Growth has indeed resumed, and at a pace far
greater than had been anticipated. The ESTSAL contributed to that outcome by establishing the
context for stabilization which, in turn, was a necessary prerequisite for growth. In that respect,
the operation is to be judged a success.


4.2 Outputs by components:

        Key performance indicators for each component of this operation are tabulated in Annex
1. Based on those performance indicators, the text below assesses the output according to
individual components of the operation.

Monetary unification

        The foremost component of this operation was to reestablish a unified money by
withdrawing quasi-monies from circulation. That task was substantially completed by end 2003
as documented by the BCRA in its "Inflation Report" for the first quarter of 2004. The table
below is taken from that report. It shows that all four of the expected outcomes identified in the
policy matrix for this operation were fulfilled or over-fulfilled by end-2003, the benchmark date.
Whereas the matrix projected that Córdoba and at least three other provinces should have


                                                 - 7 -

redeemed their quasi-monies, fully seven provinces (including Córdoba) had redeemed them 100
percent. Whereas the matrix indicated that at least 2 billion LECOPs (quasi-money issued by the
federal government) should be redeemed, the actual level of redemptions was more than 3 billion.
No new quasi-monies have been issued and the Central Bank has enhanced its control over the
conduct of monetary policy by increasing the share of pesos in the expanded monetary base by
more than the targeted 25 percent. The Central Bank has been able to use its enhanced control
over monetary policy to keep inflation effectively under control. A massive devaluation of the
peso to one third of its previous value initially resulted in a 26 percent average increase in
consumer prices in 2002 but inflation declined to only 13 percent in 2003 and is currently running
at an annualized rate of less than 5 percent. To some extent these figures may mask a degree of
repressed inflation because the government has placed price controls on public utility tariffs.
Nevertheless, when measured against expected outcomes, this component of the operation was an
outstanding success.




                                                     Quasi-money redemption
                                                         (in million pesos)
                                              Initial      Redeemed through      Exchanged for Redeemed      Percentage
                                              Stock*       money issuance         book-entry   by province    redeemed
              Quasi-monies                       (a)         Face     Buyback    securities(d)     (e)     (f)=(b+d+e)/(a)
                                                            Value      Value
                                                              (b)        (c)
                              Redeemed within the framework of the Money Unifcation Program
   BOCADE (Tucumán)                             169          167         155         2.0                        100.0
   BOCANFOR (Formosa)                            85           85         70          0.5                        100.0
   BONOSCAT (Catamarca)                          59           56         56          2.9                        100.0
   CECACOR (Corrientes)                         250          249         185         0.9                        100.0
   FEDERALES (Entre Rios)                       260          255         193         5.2                        100.0
   LECOP (National Government)                 3,272         3187       3,187        84.0                       100.0
   LECOP (Cordoba)                              656          649         620         7.3                        100.0
   PATACON (Buenos Aires)                      2,703        2,655       2,655        48.0                       100.0
   QUEBRACHOS (Chaco)                           100           99         68          1.0                        100.0
                                        Repurchase with own resources

   Bono de Consolidación (La Roja)               35                                               18.6          53.1
   PETROM (Mendoza)                              85                                               78.0          91.8
   Total                                       7,674        7,391       7,198        20           96.6          99.7

   *As of April 30-, 2003
   Source: BCRA, Inflation Report, first quarter 2004, Box4 and Ministry of Economy




Provincial finances

        A second component of the operation was to strengthen provincial finances and thereby
reduce provincial fiscal deficits. The primary instrument for achieving this objective was an



                                                            - 8 -

Orderly Financing Agreement (PFO) drawn up between the federal government and each of the
provinces with major financing problems. There was an important cross-linkage between this
component of the operation and the component which sought to reestablish a unified money,
because the PFOs explicitly prohibited the provinces from issuing new quasi-monies. At the same
time, it laid out a comprehensive fiscal plan for each province aimed at reducing its overall deficit
in 2003 and, hence, its financing requirements. The expected outcome of these initiatives was that
the overall fiscal deficits of the provinces in aggregate should not exceed 0.3 percent of GDP.
Actual performance was much better than expected and, according to preliminary estimates, the
provinces in aggregate assembled a surplus equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP. Furthermore,
building upon successful experience with the PFO, new federal-provincial bilateral agreements
have been drawn up for 2004. During the first quarter of 2004, agreements have been ratified by
provincial legislatures representing 100 percent of the 2002 consolidated provincial deficit.

Protecting social expenditures

         The remaining components of this operation related to social issues. The ESTSAL was
supportive of the 2003 federal government budget which protected both programs of social
assistance and emergency health programs against overall expenditure cuts dictated by fiscal
constraints. In particular, the approved national budget made provision for social spending
equivalent to 8.6 percent of total spending. Similarly 1.4 percent of total spending was allocated
to emergency health programs in the 2003 budget. This reversed the pattern observed in previous
crisis situations when social spending was not protected from cuts. The policy matrix for the
ESTSAL specified the expected outcomes for social spending both as a percentage of total
expenditures (anticipating that the budget would be executed as approved) and as an increase in
real terms ­ 4.8 percent for social spending and 32 percent for emergency health programs.
Hence, two separate criteria were specified as indicators of a successful outcome.

         The outcome of the 2003 budget together with itemized details for social spending and
spending on emergency health programs is presented in the table below. It can be seen that total
government expenditures fell significantly short of the budget. That was due to a number of
factors, the most important of which was a shortfall of interest payments due on government debt.
A low level of total expenditures makes it difficult to evaluate the level of social spending in
percentage terms because the denominator (total expenditures) was unduly depressed for reasons
that have nothing to do with the objectives of the ESTSAL. The fact that actual social
expenditures and emergency expenditures exceeded or were equal to the expected outcome in
percentage terms is, therefore, encouraging but not necessarily meaningful. Percentage increases
in real terms during 2003 provide an important cross-check of actual outcomes. As far as social
emergency spending is concerned, the 37 percent increase in real terms was much better than the
expected outcome. The real increase in expenditures on emergency health programs (44 percent)
was also much greater than expected notwithstanding serious shortfalls in nominal terms as
compared with the budget. The main causes of the shortfalls were procurement delays in
programs financed by loans from the Bank and from the IDB. Nevertheless, since inflation was
much lower than anticipated, performance was strong in real terms. It would be fair, therefore, to
assess the output of these components of the ESTSAL as satisfactory.




                                                  - 9 -

Monitoring and transparency of social programs

        Another social component of the ESTSAL was to improve the flow of data concerning
execution of the Jefes de Hogar workfare program and to complete an evaluation study. The
QAG panel appears to have felt that the benefits to the poor from this component should be
attributed more appropriately to other Bank-supported operations, notably to a previous loan
made in support of the Jefes de Hogar program. Nevertheless, data collection and analysis had
been seriously lagging in the Jefes de Hogar program and the ESTSAL afforded a timely
opportunity to mobilize further action. In particular, there was a need to cross-check the
beneficiary registry with other data bases such as civil registries to better identify ineligible
participants in the program. As it happened, the incoming administration, which assumed office in
May 2003, was very supportive of this component because it had good reasons of its own for
wanting to clarify and evaluate the situation. Accordingly, data collection, analysis and
cross-checking improved greatly and an impact evaluation of the program was completed. The
expected outcome of enhanced monitoring and transparency was achieved, thereby improving
program effectiveness and reducing the risk of irregularities. In particular, cross-checking
between data-bases enabled large numbers of ineligible beneficiaries to be identified and
eliminated from the program. It is estimated that, in the course of 2003 the number of
non-eligible beneficiaries was reduced by some 32 percent -- much more than the 20 percent
target specified in the policy matrix.




                                                - 10 -

                                 SOCIAL EMERGENCY PROGRAMS - 2001 / 2003
                                                 (million pesos)
Program                                                          2001       2002         2003       2003

                                                                                      Budget    Executed
Social Assistance                                              1,014.0    3,686.4     5,340.9     5,581.3
Employment Programs                                              178.9    2,333.6     3,722.5     3,920.8
   Head of Households                                             -       2,248.2     3,055.4     3,920.8
   Trabajar                                                       43.4      27.2          -          -
   Emergency Work Program                                        135.5      58.2        667.1        -
Scholarships                                                      45.2     200.8        158.4      139.2
Non-Contributory Pensions (NCP)                                  755.7     645.4        677.4      746.0
Human Development Income (IDH)                                    -         79.3        227.5      265.5
Food Programs                                                     34.3     427.2        555.1      509.9
    School Lunches                                                          76.9         99.0       96.0
    Food National Program (PEA)                                   27.4     300.2        392.8      330.6
    Popular Kitchens (FOPAR)                                      -         43.0         53.3       73.4
    Prohuerta                                                      6.9       7.1         10.0       10.0
Health                                                           296.0     450.7        834.1      717.5
AIDS                                                              53.2      76.9        186.3      127.0
Prevention and Control of Specific Deseases                       42.5     151.1        139.9      125.3
Maternal Child Care                                               29.5      60.6         88.9       99.2
Sanitary Emergency                                                 1.3      18.3        213.9      162.6
Assistance to NCP Beneficiaries                                  169.5     143.8        205.1      203.5
Total National Public Expenditures (TNPE)                     47,904.6   45,064.8    61,758.5    53,687.6


Memo Items
Social Assistance as a % of TNPE                                 2.1%       8.2%         8.6%      10.4%
Health as a % of TNPE                                            0.6%       1.0%         1.4%       1.3%
GDP Deflator Index                                                 100      130.6           ...     144.6
Real increase in Social Assistance                                  ...   178.4%            ...    36.7%
Real Increase in Health                                             ...    16.5%            ...    43.8%




Coordination of social policies

        Finally, the ESTSAL was supportive of a recently created National Council for the
Coordination of Social Policies with the expectation that it may remedy the fragmentation and
lack of coordination that had previously characterized the design and administration of social
assistance programs. There is every indication that the new government takes very seriously the
mandate of the National Council. Shortly after assuming office President Kirchner appointed his
sister, a long-time politician and Minister for Social Development, to head the Council as its
honorary president. Since mid-2003, the Council has greatly accelerated its activities. It
customarily convenes twice a month, once at the level of minister with a second follow-up



                                                 - 11 -

meeting at the level of sub-secretary. Federal ministries represented on the Council comprise
Health, Education, Labor, Social Development, Economy and Public Works.

         The Council interprets its mandate quite broadly to encompass, not only the coordination
of specific social programs but also the articulation of policy with respect to social issues across
the board. The summary minutes of meetings held at the level of minister in the second half of
2003 are attached hereto. The Council has also published in greater detail a number of initiatives
(such as a National Plan for Food Security) that call for coordinated action between ministries. It
is clear that the expected outcomes articulated in the policy matrix of the ESTSAL have been
amply fulfilled.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The principal focus of the ESTSAL was on issues affecting the economic and social
transition from a post-crisis situation to recuperation and growth. Longer-term issues of
institutional development did not figure explicitly in the objectives of the operation. Nevertheless,
individual components of the operation had a significant impact upon institutional development in
some areas even though that was not the primary target of the ESTSAL.

         The enactment of PFOs marked a watershed in federal-provincial relationships which
have, in the past, been an obstacle to sound macro-economic management. The success of the
PFOs as an instrument of fiscal management is clearly demonstrated by their continued adoption
for 2004. Twelve provinces, representing 100 percent of the 2002 consolidated provincial deficit,
have signed PFOs relating to 2004 ­ the third year of operational effectiveness. In the longer-run,
it would be better to have in place a more comprehensive and permanent framework for fiscal
cooperation between the federal government and the provinces as opposed to a series of annual
PFOs. The government is currently working to secure a political consensus that would enable it to
introduce new and more comprehensive legislation governing fiscal responsibility and
co-participation (the allocation of federal revenues between provinces). The final form and
content of that legislation has yet to be determined. Meanwhile, the PFO continues to bridge the
gap and it is providing valuable experience that legislators may draw upon to enhance the
relevance and effectiveness of new legislation. In that respect, the PFO has had an important
institutional development impact.

         The elimination of quasi-monies removed a serious impediment to monetary
mananagement and thereby strengthened the operational effectiveness of the Central Bank.
Quasi-monies ballooned at the time of the crisis to a level that was more than 50 percent of the
peso money supply and they threatened to undermine the institution of central banking if not
brought under control. With the elimination of quasi-monies the BCRA emerged stronger.


                                                - 12 -

        The establishment of a National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies is the one
area where the ESTSAL explicitly aimed at a longer-term institutional development impact. The
recent work of the Council was reviewed in section 4.2 above. It is still early days to make a
definitive assessment of the likely institutional development impact of the Council, but it has made
a commendable start which augurs well for the future.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

        Since this loan was disbursed in a single-tranche against actions already completed, it
follows that the government was in full control of all measures specified in the Loan Agreement.
However, the policy matrix for this operation clearly indicated that the already-completed actions
of the government were expected to lead to specifically identified outcomes. Those outcomes
were not all fully within the control of the government that was in office at the time of loan
approval, nor did the successor government have full control of the outcomes.

        In particular, economic growth (targeted at 4 percent for 2003 in the policy matrix) was to
be affected, not only by developments in the global market with which all countries must contend,
but also by special considerations resulting from the economic crisis and from the sovereign debt
default. If investors had abandoned their devalued assets, particularly foreign investors with
concessions in infrastructure and public services, it could have had a seriously disrupting effect
upon growth. Likewise, consumer confidence could have collapsed in the context of high
unemployment and uncertainty. In the event, however, the negative potential of these factors was
muted and economic growth overshot the 4 percent projection by a large margin aided, in part, by
favorable external factors such as booming commodity prices as well as a rebound from the severe
drop of GDP in 2002. Growth in 2003 was 8.7 percent. Such an exceptional performance is
unlikely to be repeated but growth could well amount to a further 6.5-8.0 percent in 2004. That
would go a long way to recovering the ground lost as a result of the crisis. Beyond that,
however, further sustainable growth will depend upon the effective implementation of structural
and policy reforms.

        External factors contributing to strong growth in 2003 included strong export prices,
especially for agricultural products. In addition, the massive depreciation of the peso together
with low world interest rates encouraged the repatriation of assets that had been hoarded abroad
before the crisis, thereby boosting consumer and construction-related spending.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        By and large, this operation was designed in such a way that the components were firmly
within the control of the government. However, in this context, "government" must be
interpreted broadly to include both the federal authorities and the provincial authorities. In
Argentina, cooperation between the federal government and the provinces has not always been
easy, especially in the area of fiscal management. Nevertheless, in this instance, cooperation was
good. Agreement was reached between the federal government and the provinces on Orderly


                                                     - 13 -

Financing Programs (PFOs) and the programs were effectively implemented at the provincial
level, thereby enabling all quasi-monies to be redeemed while, at the same time, ensuring that no
new quasi-monies were issued.

         The social components of this operation were, likewise, well within the control of the
government. Fiscal expenditures for social assistance and emergency health programs were
consistent with program targets.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         In terms of implementation, this was a complex operation that involved a number of
different implementing agencies and that required close coordination between them. Although the
mechanisms for withdrawing quasi-monies from circulation had been designed by the Ministry of
Economy, the Central Bank was the principal implementing agency. Implementation procedures
were clearly specified and well within the control of the implementing agency. Likewise, while
the Ministry of Economy was the sponsor and the designer of PFOs, implementation was squarely
in the hands of the provinces. Budget execution at the provincial level was generally within
control of the provinces except in special cases where individual provinces had to cope with
emergency situations such as catastrophic flooding. However, in those cases, additional funding
was forthcoming from the federal authorities.

         The social components of this operation were also generally within the control of the
implementing agencies. The government itself was in charge of implementing the budget and
budget execution (as far as social emergency programs are concerned) was broadly on target.
The coordination of social policies, including the analysis of data, was also within the control of
the implementing agencies.

5.4 Costs and financing:

N/A

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         In the case of this operation, sustainability must be judged separately for the economic and
for the social components. As far as the economic component of the operation is concerned, the
principal criteria of sustainability will be the ability of the BCRA to maintain a unified money.
That, in turn, will depend critically upon the ability of the provinces to better manage their fiscal
situation without resorting to the issue of new quasi-monies. The 2003 outcomes are
encouraging in that regard and the new PFOs that have been agreed for 2004 suggest that the
provinces will continue to exercise fiscal restraint. As a consequence of the economic crisis and
its aftermath, the provinces are much more dependent upon the federal government as the sole
source of deficit finance and the federal government is better able to discipline the situation.
Furthermore, the government is seeking a political consensus that will open the way to reforming
the whole system of revenue sharing ("co-participation") between federal and provincial
governments. Recent events have clearly revealed the shortcomings of the present system. If new



                                                    - 14 -

legislation can be agreed upon and enacted, prospects for improved fiscal and monetary
management and a sustained unified currency would be greatly improved.

        As far as the social component of this operation is concerned, sustainability is less of an
issue because the measures supported by the operation were designed to cushion the negative
social consequences of a crisis that is expected to be only temporary. Assuming that
macroeconomic management continues to be good, and assuming that key structural and policy
reforms are adopted, the economy should continue to recover. That, in turn, will increase
employment and reduce poverty. The government is preparing an integrated transition plan to
move from crisis-driven emergency social programs to a more service-oriented, tailor-made social
policy that promotes employment. Accordingly, the need for emergency social programs of the
kind supported by the ESTSAL will diminish.

        The sub-component of this operation concerning the National Council for the
Coordination of Social Policies is altogether a different matter where sustainability is important.
The Council has got off to a good start and is already proving its worth. That, together with
strong support at the highest level of government augurs well for the sustainability of its mission.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

        The performance of the line management and staff in identifying and appraising this
unusually complex operation in so short a time was highly satisfactory. Their task was
complicated by the fact that the Argentine authorities were still developing the design of the
operation even during appraisal, which meant that Bank staff were dealing with a moving target.
The staff inputs identified in Annex 4 appear to understate the amount of staff time devoted to the
preparation of this operation. However, even making allowance for under-recorded time, staff
"productivity" in this case was uncommonly high.

        Two factors made it possible for the operation to move forward so rapidly. The first was
strong commitment and ownership on the part of the Argentine authorities with respect to the
principal components of the operation ­ the reestablishment of a unified money through the
withdrawal quasi-monies and the strengthening of provincial public finances. Second, the line
management and staff brought to this operation an in-depth understanding of the situation in
Argentina as a result of extensive analytic work and long-standing country experience.

        Notwithstanding the performance of the line management and staff, there remains the issue
raised by the QAG panel concerning the strategic context of the operation and the broader
performance of the Bank in handling a crisis situation which had rendered the CAS inoperable.
The country circumstances confronting the Bank when it undertook this operation were clearly
not satisfactory. The decision to proceed was risky. If the Bank had not taken that risk,



                                                  - 15 -

however, it appeared likely at the time, that the uncommonly heavy amortization due to the Bank
as a result of the 1998 SSAL would have caused Argentina additional financial distress. It was,
therefore, the judgment of Bank senior management that the Bank should conclude an operation
with an outgoing interim administration even though that administration was unable to make
long-term commitments for policy and structural reform. Acting upon that decision, Bank staff
and line management designed an operation that was relevant, substantive and innovative. The
subsequent performance of Argentina in 2003, with high growth and low inflation, vindicated the
decision to proceed which appears, in retrospect, to have been a reasonable and satisfactory
response to an unsatisfactory situation.

7.2 Supervision:

        Since the loan was disbursed in a single tranche at the time of loan effectiveness against
actions already completed by the borrower, it did not require supervision in the customary sense
of the term. One week after effectiveness an initial (and final) project status report was prepared
by the task manager after a visit to the field. The PSR reported on progress with respect to
implementing the monetary unification program and upon outstanding issues of data that still
needed to be resolved in order to permit a full assessment of the Jefes de Hogar program.
Beyond that, Bank staff continued to monitor implementation of the ESTSAL components.
There were daily daily reports on progress with the redemption of quasi-monies and Bank staff
engaged in a continuous dialogue with the Argentine authorities.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        In view of the above, overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

        The performance of the borrower in preparing the economic components of this operation
was highly satisfactory. As far as the redemption of quasi-monies was concerned, there was no
ready precedent to follow. The borrower had to design from scratch a conceptual framework and
operational procedures that would be perceived as fair and that would accommodate both
quasi-monies issued by the federal government and quasi-monies issued by the provinces. At the
same time it sought to protect vulnerable groups such as pensioners and low paid government
employees. It is a tribute to the ingenuity and professionalism of the designers, principally staff
from the Ministry of Economy, that the procedures worked smoothly and that virtually all
quasi-monies were redeemed by end-2003 without rancor and with no disruption to the economy.

        The successful negotiation of financing agreements between the federal government and
the provinces was also a challenging task because fiscal relationships between federal and
provincial authorities are complicated and difficult. The economic crisis and its aftermath
strengthened the hand of the federal government vis à vis the provinces and it was able to build
incentives into the financing agreements to ensure compliance. Again, the successful outcome of
those financing agreements testifies to the highly satisfactory quality of their preparation.

        The preparation of the social components of the ESTSAL was satisfactory, albeit a much


                                                - 16 -

less demanding task than the economic components. It reflects well upon the borrower that the
2003 budget provided sufficient funding for social emergency programs because, in previous crisis
situations, those programs had not always been protected. The establishment of a National
Council for the Coordination of Social Policies was well prepared. The assembly and analysis of
data on the Jefes de Hogar program and cross-checking between data bases was also well
prepared although it should have been done a long time previously.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

        The government delivered on its commitments. In Annex 1 the policy matrix for this
operation is replicated with an additional column to show actual outcomes alongside the expected
outcomes. For the most part, the actual outcome far exceeded expectations.

        With respect to the redemption of quasi-monies, the task was accomplished ahead of
schedule and, by end-2003, some 97.8 percent of all quasi-monies had been withdrawn. The
program was virtually completed by March 2004. Financing agreements with the provinces
ensured that no new quasi-monies were issued and the provinces reduced their deficits even more
than expected.

        The government also fulfilled its commitments with respect to the social components of
the project. The fiscal outcome for 2003 achieved the overall objective of protecting social
emergency programs notwithstanding procurement problems which held back disbursements from
IBRD and IDB loans. Performance was satisfactory in that respect.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

        As far as quasi-monies are concerned, once the mechanisms for their redemption had been
defined and set in place, it was the responsibility of the BCRA to implement the arrangements.
Implementation was a relatively mechanical task and it was discharged satisfactorily by the
BCRA. Two provinces (Mendoza and La Rioja) opted to stay out of the federally-sponsored
scheme and they redeemed their own quasi-monies independently and within a similar time frame.

        The provinces were implementing agencies for the PFO agreements and their performance
in that respect was highly satisfactory. They over-fulfilled expected outcomes by reducing their
deficits to zero in the aggregate. To some extent the 2003 outcome may have reflected an
exceptional fiscal recovery which enabled the federal government to transfer resources to the
provinces over and above the levels originally envisaged.

        The National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies was the implementing agency
for the sub-component of the ESTSAL that had to do with coordinating social policies and its
performance was highly satisfactory. SINTyS, the agency responsible for analyzing data for the
Jefes de Hogar program, now falls under the broad administrative umbrella of the National
Council for the Coordination of Social Policies and it implemented the task satisfactorily. In
particular, SINTyS undertook cross-checking between data bases which enabled the number of
ineligible beneficiaries to be substantially reduced and thereby enhanced the effectiveness of the
Jefes de Hogar program.



                                                 - 17 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

        The overall performance of the borrower is judged to be satisfactory for this operation. In
terms of specific project components, the performance of the borrower was highly satisfactory
with all specific objectives fulfilled or more than fulfilled. However, in terms of the broader
adjustment perspective, and notwithstanding the better-than-expected economic outcome in 2003,
the government had yet to address many policy and structural issues that stood in the way (and
still continue to stand in the way) of sustainable long-term growth and poverty reduction.

8. Lessons Learned

        One lesson that emerges very clearly from the experience of this operation is that
jumbo operations such as the Special SAL that was approved for Argentina in 1998 can,
because of their lumpy repayment profile, cause serious problems both for the Bank and
for the borrower down the line. In early 2003, when the ESTSAL was being prepared and
appraised, it appeared possible that payments due on the SSAL could threaten the already
precarious external balance of Argentina and the Bank was concerned at the prospect of a further
collapse. The uncommonly heavy amortization due on the SSAL in 2003 seriously constrained the
operational maneuverability of the Bank in helping Argentina deal with the consequences of a
deep economic crisis. That experience suggests a need for rethinking and redesigning the
financial structure of the SSAL to smooth the repayment profile.

        Difficulties stemming from the lumpy repayment profile of the SSAL were exacerbated by
different perceptions about the Bank's program. While the Bank emphasised the need for a
performance driven program that, if implemented successfully, could result in disbursements
sufficient to cover debt service payments due to the Bank, the government was inclined to focus
on zero net transfers as a principal objective for the Bank program with much less emphasis on
performance issues. A lesson to be learned is that the government needs first to agree with
the Bank on a program of Bank support together with its underlying requirements. That
understanding should then be incorporated into the overall financing plan of the
government including agreements with the IMF.

        Another lesson is that even a complex and innovative operation like the ESTSAL
can be prepared quickly if there is strong ownership on the part of the borrower. In the
case of Argentina, the government was fully aware that quasi-monies were a serious impediment
to the effective management of monetary policy. The initiative to reestablish a unified money by
withdrawing quasi-monies was home-grown. Likewise, the government fully recognized that, if
the withdrawal of quasi-monies was to be permanent, there was a need to strengthen provincial
finances.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        The Argentine authorities did not provide their own independent assessment of this



                                                 - 18 -

operation. They did, however, review this ICR. In doing so they furnished more complete and
up-to-date statistical information which has been incorporated directly into the text. In addition
the authorities have commented as follows:

Section 3.5, Quality at Entry, Third paragraph

        The authorities note the conclusion of the QAG panel that the withdrawal of quasi-monies
had a positive impact on the poor, particularly pensioners and workers in low-paid employment.
The authorities wish to draw attention to the many different ways in which quasi-monies
disadvantaged the poor. Quasi-monies added to transaction costs and also imposed information
costs. In provinces where the fiscal situation was exceptionally problematic, provincial employees
were particularly hard hit because their wages were paid in provincial quasi-monies that traded at
a deep discount. Quasi-monies were not always accepted as a means of payment outside the
issuing province, resulting in market fragmentation, the disruption of financial and credit markets,
additional administrative and financial costs, which thereby further reduced the purchasing power
the of quasi-monies themselves.


(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


    ACTIONS                                          ACTIONS                                            EXPECTED                                 ACTUAL
                                                  COMPLETED                                             OUTCOMES                             OUTCOMES

Maintenance of an        Satisfactory implementation of transitional macroeconomic program.             Economic growth:              Target more than fulfilled
adequate                                                                                                  2002: -10.9%
macroeconomic                                                                                               2003: 4%                     2003 growth: 8.7%
framework.

Strengthen Provincial    Provinces representing 80 percent of 2002 provincial deficit targets          Provincial Deficits            Target more than fulfilled
finances by reducing     (or                                                                              as % of GDP                 Provincial deficits as % of GDP
provincial deficits.     3 billion pesos) have signed bilateral Orderly Financing Agreements      All provinces PFOprovinces
                         (PFO) with the Federal Government, and Provinces representing 75           2001: -2.5%          -2.0%
                        percent of the above total have ratified them in local legislatures         2002: -0.6%          -0.7%        2003: 0.0%
                        (when required) committing to the further reduction of primary and          2003: -0.3%          -0.3%
                        overall deficits, the non-issue of quasi-monies, committing to
                        information reporting requirements, and regular monitoring by
                        federal officials.

Implement Monetary       Legislation                                                           By December 2003:                      Target more than fulfilled
Unification through      --The Federal Government has issued a decree (Decree No. 743/03)
the elimination of       establishing the Monetary Unification Program (provincial             --Cordoba has redeemed its             -- Cordoba and six other
quasi monies from        quasi-monies redemption program) for 10 provinces, totaling 4.5       quasi-monies, and at least three other provinces had redeemed 98% or
circulation, in order to billion pesos, and issued regulations (Resolution No. 266/03) guiding provinces have reduced                 more of all quasi-monies.
strengthen the ability   the execution of this decree.                                         quasi-monies.
of the Central Bank to --The Federal Government has issued a decree (Decree No. 957/03)
conduct monetary         authorizing the redemption of federal quasi monies -- LECOPs,         --At least 2 billion LECOPs have       -- 3.2 billion LECOPs redeemed
policy, reduce           amounting to 3.3 billion pesos. An associated regulation              been redeemed.
incentives to conduct    (reglamento) guiding the execution of this decree has been issued.                                           -- No new issue of quasi-monies
economic activity in     --The Federal Government presented to Congress draft legislation      --No new issues of quasi-monies
the informal market,     authorizing the redemption of all quasi-monies, including LECOPs,     have been made.                        -- The Central Bank increased
facilitate               and changing the Charter of the Central Bank in order for the                                                the share of pesos in the
inter-provincial trade   institution to accept once and for all BODENs at nominal value, in    --The Central Bank will have           expanded money supply by
and economic activity, exchange for the issue of pesos necessary for the redemption of         enhance its control over the conduct more than 25%
and improve income       quasi-monies. [Should that law be approved, its terms would           of monetary policy, by increasing the
distribution.            partially amend the provisions of the previous two decrees].          share of pesos in the expanded
                                                                                               monetary base since the beginning of
                         Implementation                                                        2003 by at least 25 percent.
                         --The Province of Cordoba has signed an agreement with the Federal
                         Government, and issued provincial Decree No. 763/03 agreeing to
                         participate in the program (including acceptance of repayment terms,
                         guaranteeing the repayment of the loan by withholding
                         co-participation funds, the non-issue in the future of other
                         quasi-monies and providing required information related to the
                         exchange), and that agreement and Decree have been ratified by the
                         provincial legislature.
                         --The Federal Government has issued a decree accepting the Cordoba
                         Agreement to participate in the redemption of quasi-monies program,
                         establishing the maximum amount to be exchanged per province, and
                         adjusting its budgetary allocation to accommodate those transactions.
                         --The Province of Cordoba (which has agreed to participate in the
                         redemption of the quasi-monies program) has signed a PFO
                         Agreement with the Federal Government and that agreement has
                         been ratified by its Provincial Legislature.
                         --The Central Bank has called for the auction of Cordoba's
                         quasi-monies (LECOR), in coordination with the Ministry of
                         Economy, for the determination of prices at which the redemption of
                         quasi-monies will be conducted. This announcement has been made
                         publicly available.
                         --The Federal Government is implementing the redemption program
                         of its Lecops in accordance with the issued decree and associated
                         regulation:
                         (a) the Government has reached an agreement with the Central Bank
                         on the mechanism of the redemption of Lecops; and
                         (b) the Government has started implementing steps required for the
                         redemption of LECOPs.




                                                                        - 20 -

Ensured that social     The 2003 approved national budget includes social spending of 8.6     Social emergency spending:              Target more than fulfilled
protection programs     percent of total projected spending.                                  - as % of total spending                Social Emergency Spending
responded adequately                                                                          2001: 2.1%                              -- as % of total spending:
to the economic crisis.                                                                       2002: 8.1%
                                                                                              2003: 8.6%                              2003: 10.4%
                                                                                              - increase in real terms                -- increase in real terms:
                                                                                              2002/01: 136%
                                                                                              2003/02: 4.8%                           2003/02: 43.8%

                        Completion of an impact evaluation study of the Jefes de Hogar        Enhanced monitoring and                 Target fulfilled
                        Program and presentation to the Bank of an action plan based on       transparency, thereby improving
                        the conclusion resulting from that study (which plan will include the program effectiveness and reducing Enhanced monitoring and
                        actions to be undertaken by the Government to address those           risk of irregularities as indicated by atransparency achieved
                        conclusions).                                                         reduction of non-eligible
                                                                                              beneficiaries by 20 percent by end      Non-eligible beneficiaries
                        Report monthly analyses (November 2002 through April 2003,            2003.                                   reduced 32% by end 2003
                        both inclusive) of the registry of beneficiaries (and their family
                        members) for the Jefes de Hogar Program by SINTyS.

                        The Government has issued Decree No. 357/02 creating the              Enhanced coordination of social         Target more than fulfilled
                        National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies.             policies as indicated by evidence of Enhanced coordination of social
                                                                                              participation by more than one          policies with multiple ministries
                                                                                              ministry in the at least two social     participating in several social
                                                                                              programs.                               programs

Ensure coverage of      The 2003 approved national budget includes health spending of         Health emergency spending:              Target substantially fulfilled
basic health services   1.4percent of total projected spending (Arg$0.8 billion) for health   - as % of total spending                Health Emergency Spending:
for the most            programs that guarantees enough resources for the functioning of      2001: 0.6%                              -- as % of total spending:
vulnerable.             priority public health programs, including immunizations, infant and  2002: 1.0%                              2003: 1.3%
                        material health, HIV-AIDS, and control and prevention of infectious   2003: 1.4%                              -- increase in real terms:
                        diseases.                                                             - increase in real terms
                                                                                              2002/01: 0.8%                           2003/02: 44%
                                                                                              2003/02: 32%




Source: Program Document pp. 37 and 38.

Note:
The original policy matrix in the Program Document had an additional column at the left which was
entitled "Objectives" and which has been omitted here for reasons of space. The "Objectives" column had
only one entry in the first row which read as follows: "Strengthen Argentina's ability to resume economic
growth".




                                                                        - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


N/A




                                      - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


N/A




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)             Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count              Specialty                             Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               April, 2003                   1     Task Manager (1)                           S               S
                                                                                              S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April, 2003                   4     Task Manager (2); Senior                   S               S
                                                   Country Officer (1); Senior
                                                   Counsel (1); Research
                                                   Analyst (1)
                                                                                              S               S

 Supervision
               May-June, 2003                 1    Task Manager (1)                           S               S


 ICR
                                             1     Consultant                                 S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       16.62                                 68
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total


Note: Because of the compressed schedule from Indentification through Negotiation and because of
concurrent work on other operations, social sector specialist staff did not bill their time separately to this
operation in the SAP.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

QAG Assessment - Panel Report
Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas Sociales: Síntesis de las reuniones realizadas




                                           - 27 -

- 28 -

