Public Information Document (PID)    A   5          x
Project Name:          Argentina-Economic and Social Transition Structural
Adjustment Loan
Region:                 Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector:                Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
(PREM)
Project ID:             P083074
Borrower:               Republic of Argentina
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Economy
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250 (1310)
Buenos Aires
Mr. Gerardo Hita
Tel. 54-11-4349-6200
Date of PID:            14 April 2003
Project Appraisal Date:  21 April 2003
Project Board Date:     13 May 2003
Background:
The Argentine economy is emerging from the deepest recession in generations, with
its GDP having fallen by 20 percent in the last four years and by 10.9 percent in
2002 alone. The culmination of this crisis is associated with the collapse of the
Convertibility Pan, which extracted an increasingly and unsustainable high social
and economic cost. After an initial period of heightened economic, social and
political uncertainly, the Argentine economy displayed signs of bottoming out
around the middle of 2002. Since then, indications of a fragile recovery based on
improved consumer sentiment and import substitution have multiplied, with
positive developments becoming stronger in recent months. The current
Government has made important strides towards reverting some of the negative
impact of the crisis under very difficult social and economic conditions. Key to the
achievement have been the controls over the fiscal situation and the as well as the
pursuit of a tight monetary policy. Nevertheless, unemployment reached 18% of the
labor force, and 57% of the population is below the poverty line. At end-March, the



exchange rate stood at around 3 pesos to US$1 and foreign reserves had reached
US$10.4 billion. The external financing crisis and recession led to a swift reversal in
the external accounts. With a large decline in imports of 55.8 percent, and despite a
lackluster export performance, the trade balance improved from US$3.4 billion in
2001 to US$13.1 billion last year, helping generate an US$11 billion swing in the
current account. The trade balance continued to be in large surplus in January
2003, when it reached US$1.3 billon compared to US$970 million in the same month
of 2002.
Argentina's prospects for 2003 are for a continuation of the current recovery in
output and the maintenance of the fiscal and monetary stability reached over the
second half of 2002. However, significant uncertainties accompany such
expectations, including the outcome of the presidential elections, the need to address
urgently fundamental structural reforms and the normalization of relations with the
international financial community.
In the meantime, an interim economic and financing program has been agreed with
the IFIs, covering the January to August 2003 period. The main components of the
transitional program are: (i) the 2003 budget, which seeks to keep the federal
deficit under control ; (ii) implementation of the federal-provincial bilateral pacts;
(iii) a monetary program to maintain inflation at a low level; (iv) preparatory steps
toward structural measures needed to strengthen the fiscal position over the
medium term; (v) progress toward debt restructuring; (vi) a strategy to restore the
health of the banking system ; and (vii) ensuring full respect for the rights of the
creditors, restoring legal certainly, and making a start on corporate restructuring.
Project Description:
The proposed adjustment loan would support the country in reestablishing a sound
basis for growth and development, and strengthening efforts to protect social
programs, thereby helping to mitigate the adverse effects of the economic crisis on
the poor in Argentina. In particular, the proposed transition loan would help
strengthen Argentina's ability to resume growth and protect its humall capital
through a series of initial reform steps taken by the current Government. These
steps support (i) the continued deficit reduction efforts by the provinces through the
"program of orderly financing" (PFO), (ii) the elimination of quasi-monies, (iii) the
regularization of salary payments to teachers in seven provinces through the
elimination of the existing payments' arrears of salaries, (iv) the enhancement of the
social safety net, and (v) measures to ensure coverage of basic health services to the
most vulnerable through increased budget allocations to priority programs and
improved access to pharmaceuticals. The proposed loan amount of US$500 million
forms part of the financing support package by the international community for
Argentina's transition program. It is proposed that the loan be disbursed in a single
tranche. In addition to specific conditions relating to the five areas outlined above,
the proposed loan requires that a satisfactory macroeconomic framework be
maintained as evidenced by an active IMF program. The proposed operation is part



of a concerted effort by multilateral institutions to help Argentina during the
transition period and lay the groundwork for a more comprehensive reform
program to be developed and implemented with the new administration scheduled
to take office at the end of May 2003.
Environmental and Rcsettlement Aspects:
No environmental or resettlement issues are raised by the proposed structural
adjustment program.
Contact Information:
Paul Levy
Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel (202) 473-0124



