Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7171-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Economic and Social Transition Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between the 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7171 -AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2003, between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower: (i) a letter, dated 
March 26, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy, in particular in the fiscal, 
monetary, social protection and health sectors; and (ii) two letters, dated April 30, 2003, 
expanding the contents of the letter mentioned in (i) herein (hereinafter called collectively 
the Program), all declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as 
hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the 
request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be 
required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “Argentine 
Pesos
”
means the currency of the Borrower; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“BCRA” means the 
Banco Central de la República Argentina
,
the 
Borrower’s central bank;  
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d) “
Jefes de Hogar
 Program” means the Borrower’s program established 
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 565, dated April 3, 2002; 
(e) 
“Lecops” means the quasi-money (
letras de cancelación de obligaciones 
provinciales
)
issued by the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 
1004/01 of August 9, 2001 (as said Decree has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement); 
(f) 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title 
Two of the Borrower’s Constitution; and 
(g) “SINTyS” 
means 
Sistema de Identificación Nacional Tributario y 
Social
), the Borrower’s National Social and Taxpayer Identification System. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred 
million Dollars ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $495,000,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the BCRA, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from 
the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 29, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program (including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement). 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date June 23, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5
o
piso 
 
1310
Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121950AR  
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/Roberto Lavagna 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/Axel van Trotsenburg 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7  
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897                          
897.3  
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or 
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date[, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
August 15, 2006 
2.72% 
 
February 15, 2007 
2.82% 
 
August 15, 2007 
2.91% 
 
February 15, 2008 
3.02% 
 
August 15, 2008 
3.12% 
 
February 15, 2009 
3.23% 
 
August 15, 2009 
3.34% 
 
February 15, 2010 
3.46% 
 
August 15, 2010 
3.58% 
 
February 15, 2011 
3.71% 
 
August 15, 2011 
3.84% 
 
February 15, 2012 
3.97% 
 
August 15, 2012 
4.11% 
 
February 15, 2013 
4.25% 
 
August 15, 2013 
4.40% 
 
February 15, 2014 
4.56% 
 
August 15, 2014 
4.72% 
 
February 15, 2015 
4.88% 
 
August 15, 2015 
5.05% 
 
February 15, 2016 
5.23% 
 
August 15, 2016 
5.41% 
 
February 15, 2017 
5.60% 
 
August 15, 2017 
5.80% 
 
February 15, 2018 
6.27% 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
Page  14
-
13
-
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
Fiscal and Monetary Sector Actions 
 
1. 
(a) Provinces, whose public sector deficits in the aggregate represent at least 
eighty percent (80%) of the 2002 overall projected provincial public sector deficit (which 
deficit equaled to three billion Argentine 
Pesos
), have signed a separate bilateral accord 
(
Convenio Bilateral
)
with the Borrower for the year 2003 (within the framework 
provided by the Borrower’s Decrees Nos. 2263/02 of November 8, 2002 and 297/03 of 
February 17, 2003 (
Programa de Financiamiento Ordenado de las Finanzas 
Provinciales
)), each said bilateral accord to include, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of:  
 
(i) 
the respective Province: (A) to reduce its provincial public sector 
deficit and attain the overall fiscal targets set forth in the 
respective bilateral accord; (B) not to issue any type of quasi-
money (
cuasi 
moneda); (C) to prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower periodic reports concerning the attainment of said 
targets; and (D) to enable the Borrower’s representatives to 
examine records and accounts for purposes of monitoring 
compliance with the provisions of  the corresponding bilateral 
accord; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower to exercise the remedies set forth therein in case 
the respective Province fails to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding bilateral accord. 
 
For purposes of this subparagraph: 
 
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public sector (except 
for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which funding is allocated as 
part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s legislature; 
and 
 
"deficit" means the amount by which total provincial public sector revenues (i.e., current 
revenues, which revenues are hereby defined to mean: (I) revenues from taxes; (II) non-
tax revenues from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (III) 
revenues from all federal revenue-sharing transfers, plus capital revenues, minus 
revenues obtained by the Province from privatizations and concessions of its assets) are 
less than total provincial public sector expenditures (i.e., current expenditures, which 
expenditures are defined to mean expenditures incurred for payment of personnel, 
expenditures incurred for the use of goods, facilities and services, expenditures incurred 
for interest on public sector debts and transfers for which there is no consideration (but 
Page  16
-
15
-
excluding severance payments made to personnel departing from the provincial public 
sector), plus capital expenditures, minus expenditures incurred by the Province with 
regard to privatizations and concessions of its assets).
1
(b) 
The separate bilateral accords which have been entered into between the 
Borrower and the Provinces (within the framework mentioned in paragraph 1 (a) above) 
whose public sector deficits in the aggregate represent at least seventy five percent (75%) 
of the 2002 overall provincial public sector deficit mentioned in said paragraph, are in 
full force and effect. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has issued: (a) Decree of Necessity and Urgency (
Decreto de 
Necesidad y Urgencia
)
No. 743/03 of March 28, 2003 (duly publish
ed in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette on April 1, 2003), which Decree establishes the
 
Program of Monetary 
Unification (
Programa de Unificación Monetaria
), which program provides for the 
redemption of quasi-monies issued by the following Provinces: Buenos Aires, Catamarca, 
Cordoba, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Rios, Formosa, La Rioja, Mendoza and Tucumán; (b) 
Decree of Necessity and Urgency No. 957/03 of April 23, 2003 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 24, 2003), which Decree, 
inter alia
,
expands the 
program mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) herein by providing for the redemption of Lecops, 
and amends certain provisions of the Decree mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) herein to 
consolidate the implementation of said program; (c) Resolution No. 266 of April 9, 2003 
(duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 11, 2003), which Resolution 
regulates, 
inter alia
,
the repayment terms of the debt that each Province mentioned in 
paragraph 2 (a) herein will incur with the Borrower as a result of the redemption of the 
particular quasi-money, and the auction mechanism to implement the program mentioned 
in paragraph 2(a) herein; and (d) regulations to the Decree mentioned in paragraph 2 (b) 
herein (which regulations have been duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette). 
 
3.
 
The Borrower has furnished to its legislature a draft bill of law which, if enacted, 
would, 
inter alia
:
(a) authorize the Borrower to issue bonds in Argentine 
Pesos
 and 
exchange said bonds for Argentine 
Pesos
 to be issued by the BCRA within the 
framework of the program mentioned in paragraph 2 above; and (b) create an exception 
to Article 18 (a) of the organic law of the  BCRA to accept  the bonds mentioned in 
paragraph 3 (a) herein at their nominal value, and retain them on the BCRA books at such 
nominal value without fluctuation, in accordance with the terms set forth in said law
.
4. 
The Province of Cordoba has: (a) issued Decree No. 763/03 of April 15, 2003, 
which Decree provides for the agreement of said Province to participate in the program 
mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) above; and (b) enacted law no. 9108 duly published in the 
Province’s Official Gazette on April 22, 2003, which law, 
inter alia
,
ratifies the Decree 
mentioned in paragraph 4 (a) herein. 
1
For purposes of this subparagraph (a), capital expenditures do not include
 
amortization costs even 
though such costs are considered to be capital expenditures according to accounting principles 
commonly applied in the United States of America
.
Page  17
-
16
-
5. 
The Borrower has issued a Decree accepting the agreement of the Province 
mentioned in paragraph 4 above (which Decree has been duly published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette). 
 
6. 
The Province mentioned in paragraph 4 above has signed a separate bilateral 
accord as provided in paragraph 1 (a) above, and said bilateral accord is in full force and 
effect.
 
7. 
BCRA has publicly announced the carrying out of an auction (as provided by 
article 5 of the Decree mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) above (as said article 5 has been 
amended by the Decree mentioned in paragraph 2 (b) above)) in respect of the Province 
mentioned in paragraph 4 above for purposes of assisting the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy to determine, at the conclusion of said auction, the prices at which the quasi-
money issued by said Province would be redeemed. 
 
8. 
The Borrower is implementing the redemption of  Lecops within the framework 
of the program mentioned in paragraph 2 above, through: (a) the execution of an 
agreement with the BCRA in accordance with the regulations mentioned in paragraph 2 
(d) above; and (b) the commencement of implementation of steps required for the
 
redemption of Lecops. 
 
Social Protection Sector Actions
9. 
The Borrower’s legislature has approved for the calendar year 2003 an annual 
budget for its social assistance programs which represents 8.6% of total projected 
spending of the Borrower’s approved national budget (
Cálculo de Recursos y 
Presupuesto de Gastos de la Administración Pública Nacional
)
for said year. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has: (a) carried out an impact evaluation study of the 
Jefes de 
Hogar 
Program; and (b) based on the findings of said impact evaluation study, prepared 
and furnished to the Bank an action plan (which plan includes the actions to be 
undertaken by the Borrower to address said findings in accordance with a time-table set 
forth therein). 
 
11. 
The Borrower, through SINTyS, has carried out, for the period covered between 
November 2002 and April 2003 (both inclusive), monthly analyses of the registry of 
beneficiaries for the 
Jefes de Hogar
 Program to, 
inter alia
,
determine if said beneficiaries 
have met the eligibility criteria to participate in said program. 
 
12. 
The Borrower, through the issuance of Decree No. 357/02 of February 21, 2002 
(duly published in the Borrower
’s Official Gazette on February 22, 2002), has established 
the National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies (
Consejo Nacional para la 
Coordinación de Políticas Sociales
), which council is empowered to, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
coordinate all actions und
ertaken or to be undertaken by the Borrower’s Ministries and 
Page  18
-
17
-
agencies involved in the social programs at the federal level; (b) monitor and evaluate 
said social programs; and (c) supervise the registry of beneficiaries of said social 
programs. 
 
Health Sector Action
13. 
The Borrower’s legislature has approved for the calendar year 2003 an annual 
budget for its health emergency programs which represents 1.4% of total projected 
spending of the Borrower’s approved national budget (
Cálculo de Recursos y 
Presupuesto de Gastos de la Administración Pública Nacional
)
for said year. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
WB76939 
M:\ARGENTIN\806-AR Fiscal Adjustment\806-AR-LA.doc 
June 5, 2003 2:48 PM
 
