Report No. PID8308
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Regional Fiscal
Technical Assistance Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       RUPE58587
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
Address 3/5 Smolensky Blvd.
119121 Moscow, Russian Federation
Contact person: Mr. Mstislav Korolkov,
Director General
Telephone: 7 (095) 792-3010
Fax: 7 (095) 792-3011
e-mail address: mkorolkov@fer.ru
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           April 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             December  22, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1. The Russian Federation has undergone significant reforms in its system
of inter-governmental fiscal relations over the past six years. Yet
Russia's fiscal and structural adjustment reforms at the sub-national
level have been alarmingly slow. In many instances the progress of federal
fiscal reforms has been reversed by the increased allocation of subsidies
to the housing sector and enterprises from the regional and municipal
budgets. As a result, a clear imbalance has developed between fiscal
adjustment efforts at the federal level and sub-national levels, posing a
serious threat to Russia's macroeconomic stability and impairing national
economic growth. At present, the Government's efforts to accelerate fiscal
and structural reforms at the sub-national level are being hampered by
three issues: deficient legal framework, poor compliance, and weak
institutional capacity. The Government faces severe capacity constraints
in the design and implementation of inter-governmental fiscal reforms and
in monitoring the compliance of the regions with federal regulations. The
institutional capacity of the regions to implement fiscal and budgetary
reforms is of even more concern as the federal reform agenda grows more
complex.
Objectives
2. The principal development objectives of the project are to build
institutional capacity for advancing the reform of inter-governmental
fiscal relations and improving fiscal performance at the sub-national
level. To meet these objectives, the Project has four sub-goals:
- improve the existing legal framework of inter-governmental fiscal



relations;
- develop a fiscal incentive mechanism to promote the regions'
compliance with existing federal laws and regulations;
- strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal
performance and reform efforts;
- strengthen institutional capacity of sub-national governments for
carrying out fiscal and structural reforms.
Description
3. The Project will finance four components: (i) Strengthening of Federal
Legislation on Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations; (ii) Strengthening of
Federal Fiscal Monitoring Capacity; (iii) Regional Reform of Accounting
and Budget Practices; and (iv) Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews.
- Strengthening of Federal Legislation on Inter-Governmental Fiscal
Relations. Development and implementation of the Government's fiscal
reform will require substantial efforts in improving the current
legal framework for inter-governmental relations. The legal research
and drafting efforts will be focused on high-priority themes such as
inventory of the current assignment of revenue and expenditures
responsibilities between the federal, regional and local
governments; analysis of different options for the reform of inter-
governmental transfers; drafting of federal regulations for
monitoring sub-national fiscal performance; design of formula-based
equalization transfers for the regions; and analysis of the
consistency and compatibility of existing legislation on inter-
governmental fiscal relations. These studies and draft laws would be
the core product of this component.
- Strengthening of Federal Fiscal Monitoring Capacity. The component
would finance the technical and human resources needed to implement
the technical assistance envisaged under the loan, to increase the
Government institutional capacity for the design, implementation and
monitoring of the reform of inter-governmental relations, and
subsequently to support a proposed US$1.5 billion fiscal adjustment
lending program to the regions.
- Regional Reform of Accounting, Budgetary Process and Institutions.
The component will support the development of sub-national
government best budgeting and financial reporting standards which
would account for off-budgetary liabilities, introduce expenditure
accounting on the accrual basis, and distinguish between current and
capital expenditures, between budget expenditures and deficit
financing, and between debt service and repayment of principal.
- Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews in the Regions. Fiscal
adjustment at the sub-national level is linked to the success of
regional structural reforms. Current patterns of regional budget
expenditures-including unsustainable subsidization-indicate that
structural reforms in the regions have been slower than anticipated.
Housing, agriculture and public transportation have been the largest
recipients of subsidies from regional budgets, with housing and
public utilities receiving the most. This component will assist
participating regions with the development and implementation of
-2 -



expenditure reform plans by financing a number of public expenditure
reviews. These will primarily focus on the sectors which have been
the largest recipients of subsidies from consolidated regional
budgets such as housing and utilities, agriculture, public
transportation, education and health. The reviews are expected to
result in prioritization of budget expenditures, identification of
expenditure programs and projects with lower priority, introduction
of appropriate pricing policies and identification of potential for
cost recovery, as well as identification of sectoral expenditure
programs for alternative provision by the private sector.
Financing
4. The total project cost is estimated at US$36.2 million, including
contingencies amounting to US$2.0 million, taxes of US$4.7 million, and an
up-front fee of US$0.3 million. The Bank would finance US$30.0 million or
approximately 83 percent of total Project costs. Project costs include
technical assistance (both foreign and local), equipment, training, and
incremental operating costs incurred during the implementation period.
Grant financing in the amount of US$482,600 has been secured under the
Japanese Program for Human Resources Development (PHRD), and was approved
by the Government of Russia. The Government would make a US$1.5 million
in-kind contribution toward the operating costs of the Fiscal Monitoring
Division. These expenses would include rent, travel, utilities and staff
costs. The government would also cover any taxes/duties on locally
procured goods, as well as VAT on consultant services contracts.
Implementation
5. The Project would be implemented by the Foundation for Enterprise
Restructuring (FER), which has been registered with the Ministry of
Justice as a non-commercial foundation. A Board of Supervisors was
established, whose members include the Ministry of Economy and the
Ministry of Finance.
Sustainability
6. Two features will help sustain government institutional capacity in
inter-governmental issues once the Project is complete. First, the
education and on-the-job training of the Fiscal Monitoring Division, the
staff of the Ministries of Finance and Economy and of regional and local
administrations. Second, sustainability of the Project will be secured by
the ownership of regional reform programs by the regions themselves and
the implementation of policy recommendations developed under the Project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7. The proposed approach would draw on Bank experience accumulated from
previous operations (both adjustment and investment projects), including
those developed for other economies in transition. One important lesson
from other Bank projects in Russia (e.g., EHDP, Urban Transport, Water and
Sewage) is that reform developments at the sub-national level need to be
closely monitored. Strengthening the Government's monitoring capacity, in
this respect, is critical to successful Project implementation. Fiscal
adjustment and sectoral performance indicators, in particular those
-3 -



related to the regional structural reform of the key sectors such as
housing and transport, will be developed based on the experience of
various investment projects such as the EHDP. Reform programs recently
developed by the IBRD under Public Resource Management Loans in
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and other FSU states will be also be taken into
account. Project preparation will also benefit from smaller pieces of TA
to regional governments in Russia being funded under ongoing Bank projects
(Community and Social Infrastructure, SPIL and Legal Reform). The Project
would draw on Bank experience with economic work in the area of fiscal
management in Russia, with three SALs, all of which had fiscal reform
components, and with various investment operations that have been
implemented at the sub-national level.
8. Project Benefits
9. The principal project benefit will be the improved legal framework of
inter-governmental fiscal relations and accelerated fiscal and structural
adjustment at the sub-national level. These would result from intensive
project efforts to enhance the existing legal framework of inter-
governmental relations and improve the institutional capacity of the
federal government and the regions in fiscal and economic management. As a
result of the project, the Government is expected to retain enhanced
capacity in government institutions for analytic economic work and
monitoring in the area of inter-governmental fiscal relations. One
principal benefit of the Project in the long term will be more sound
fiscal and economic policies in the regions.
Risks
10. The governance structure of the Fiscal Monitoring Division poses
risks that are common to governmental advisory bodies. The first is that
its ability to perform monitoring functions will be contingent upon its
close links to the Government. Second, due to the high level of political
representation on the Fiscal Monitoring Division's decision-making Council
(Inter-Ministerial Council for Fiscal Reforms), it may have difficulty
providing day-to-day oversight of Project implementation. This risk can be
partially offset by establishing a capable and politically viable Board of
Directors with the key Government ministries and agencies represented to
provide daily oversight.
11. Another risk is the possibility of a legislative delay or stalemate
in the national legislature on key elements of inter-governmental fiscal
reform. This risk can be partially mitigated by including representatives
of the Duma and Federation Council in the Inter-Ministerial Council for
Fiscal Reforms. However, this risk cannot be entirely removed from the
Project.
12. The lack of political will to implement reforms at the regional
level poses another considerable risk to the Project. Fiscal and
structural adjustment reforms to be recommended to the regions under the
Project are likely to result in a considerable reduction of subsidies to
inefficient enterprises and may require additional tariff increases to
achieve higher cost recovery. In addition, the improved transparency of
regional budgets and accounting procedures will impose hard budgetary
constrains on regional administrations, thus making it difficult to resort
- 4 -



to off-budgetary funds and accrue off-budgetary liabilities. All these
issues may trigger serious political opposition to the Project at the sub-
national level.
Poverty Category
13. The operation is being designed in the context of the Bank's overall
strategy in Russia to cushion the impact of the economic transition on
vulnerable groups. Selected aspects of the overall dialogue with the
Government on poverty reduction would be included in the proposed Project
through a set of performance indicators for participating regions, which
would reflect their progress in strengthening local capacity to handle
social protection in a cost efficient way.
Environmental Aspects
14. The project is a technical assistance operation with a Category C
environmental rating. The operation would have no direct impact on the
environment and (in line with operational OD4.02 and 8.60) has been placed
in category C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
Program Objective Category: Economic Management
15. The program will focus on inter-governmental fiscal relations reform
and on regional fiscal reform. This will include legal support of the
reform in fiscal management and budgeting, fiscal transfers, debt
management, assignment of expenditures; assistance in building federal
fiscal monitoring capacity; and support in improving regional
institutional capacity to design and implement fiscal reforms.
Contact Point:          Eugene Gurenko,
Project Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5414
Fax No.: (202) 477-0288
e-mail: egurenko@worldbank.org
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 4, 2001.
- 5 -



