Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T 7345-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 30, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Eastem Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Ruble (Rb)
MICEX Exchange Rates
New Ruble per US$1
Period Average       End of Period
1995                4.566                4.640
1996                5.129                5.554
1997                5.785                5.974
1998                9.355               20.650
1999*              24.130               26.555
* As of November 30, 1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FER       Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
EHDP      Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOR       Government of Russia
FMD       Fiscal Monitoring Division
IMWG      Inter-Ministerial Working Group
LIBOR     London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MOF       Ministry of Finance
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PDL       Portfolio Development Loan
PHRD      Program for Human Resources Development
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RFTAP    Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SPIL       Social Protection Implementation Loan
TA        Technical Assistance
TAL       Technical Assistance Loan
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice-President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader:    Lawrence M. Hannah
Project Team:    Eugene Gurenko (Task Manager),
ECSIN; Douglas Sumerfield, Maria
Shkaratan, Stepan Titov, Benoit Bosquet,
Helena Makarenko, ECSPE



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.      RATIONALE  FOR  BANK  INVOLVEMENT ....................................................                            1
A. Major Impediments to the Reforms of Inter-Governmental Relations ...................1
B. GOR  Agenda for Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform  .............................................2
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................................................3
D. Lessons from  Previous Bank Involvement ...................................................                    3
II. THE PROJECT ....................                         ...                                            .5
A. Project Objectives .....................5
B. Project Description ....................5
C. Summary Project Analysis .....................7
D. Project Benefits ....................8
E. Project Risks ....................8
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..... 10
A. Project Cost .........................................................                                         10
B. Borrower's Financial Contribution .........................................................                    12
C. Procurement ..........................................................                                         13
D. Disbursements ..........................................................                                       15
E. Project Implementation: Management Structure ..................................................... 17
ANNEXES
Annex  1. Performance and Monitoring Indicators ....................................................... 26
Annex 2. Procurement Plan .........................................................                               28
Annex 3. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance .............................................. 33
Annex 4. Supervision Plan ..........................................................                              55
Annex 5. Project Implementation Plan ..........................................................                   57
Annex 6. Report on Financial Management Systems .................................................. 60






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A.  Major Impediments to the Reforms of Inter-Government Fiscal Relations
1.    Weak Fiscal and Structural Adjustment Reforms at the Sub-National Level
The Russian Federation has undergone significant reforms in its system of inter-
governmental fiscal relations since the beginning of the transition. The Budget Code,
approved by the Duma in 1998, and Part I of the Tax Code', which went into effect in
January 1999 are examples of major Government efforts to reform fiscal management
and budgeting at the sub-national level, as well as the existing system of revenue and tax
assignments. While the pace and depth of reforms had accelerated in the first half of
1998, the August crisis brought these government efforts to an abrupt halt. However, in
1999, the Government's attempts to reform inter-governmental fiscal relations have
received a new, strong impetus. An Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) for Inter-
Governmental Fiscal Reform has been formed and meets regularly, a Government Fiscal
Concept Paper has been approved and has been adhered to, and a working dialogue with
the regions on key issues of inter-governmental reform has been resumed. Yet, Russia's
fiscal and structural adjustment reforms at the sub-national level have been alarmingly
slow. In many instances the progress of federal fiscal reforms has been reversed by the
increased allocation of subsidies to the housing sector and enterprises from the regional
and municipal budgets. From small surpluses in the early 1990s, most regional budgets
have slipped into deficits. Sub-national government interest payments due in 1998
amounted to about 0.74 percent of GDP, and much of this was never paid. The August
17, 1998 ruble devaluation and the subsequent economic crisis triggered a chain of
defaults by the regions on locally traded debt. As a result, a clear imbalance has
developed between fiscal adjustment efforts at the federal and sub-national levels, posing
a serious threat to Russia's macroeconomic stability and impairing national economic
growth. At present, the Government's efforts to accelerate fiscal and structural reforms at
the sub-national level are being hampered by three issues:
* Deficient Legal Framework* The current inter-governmental legal framework does
not provide incentives throughout the multi-tiered fiscal system for effective tax
collection, efficient allocation of public resources, and financially responsible
borrowing. Lack of clarity in expenditure assignments and the extensive use of
unfinded expenditure mandates from upper-level governments promote inefficient
expenditure patterns and fiscally irresponsible behavior. In addition, the overall legal
framework governing the system of inter-governmental fiscal relations is riddled with
inconsistencies and contradictions.
l Part II of the Tax Code is still under discussion.
1



*  Poor Compliance. Although over the past six years many laws have been passed on
budgeting and financial management, revenue sharing, transfers, and assignment of
functional responsibilities, there has been considerable variation in the degree of
compliance with these laws by the regions. Enforcement of these laws remains weak.
In some cases, the laws have been little more than proclamations, with essentially no
implementation.
*  Weak Institutional Capacity The Government faces severe capacity constraints in
the design and implementation of inter-governmental fiscal reforms, as well as in
monitoring the compliance of the regions with federal regulations. The institutional
capacity of the regions to implement fiscal and budgetary reforms is of even more
concern, as the federal reform agenda grows ever more complex.
B. GOR Agenda for Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform
2.   The GOR recognizes that these issues must be addressed as part of its medium-term
economic agenda. The GOR's medium-term economic strategy includes actions to
eliminate unfunded mandates from the federal to sub-national governments, revise the
formula for allocating federal equalization transfers to the regions, and develop a
program to rationalize expenditure and tax assignments with the objectives of
establishing a more stable and transparent system of inter-governmental finance and
providing a potential revenue base at each level of government commensurate with its
respective responsibilities.
3.  In order to implement its reform agenda in the area of inter-governmental fiscal
relations, the GOR requested Bank financing to support the following Government
efforts:
• Promote legal reform of inter-governmental fiscal relations, including fiscal
management and budgeting, debt management, revenue and tax assignments,
assignment of expenditures, and inter-governmental fiscal transfers;
*  Build a powerful fiscal incentive mechanism to improve regional compliance with
federal rules and regulations. As part of this effort, the Project will support further
Bank efforts to promote fiscal and structural reforms in the regions;
*  Improve regional institutional capacity to design, implement and monitor fiscal
reforms. The Government believes the Bank can provide valuable technical support to
the Fiscal Monitoring Division of the Ministry of Finance (FMD), which would focus
on monitoring regional compliance with Federal legislation and provide analytical
support and policy advice on inter-governmental fiscal issues to the Inter-Ministerial
Working Group for Fiscal Reform. In addition, the Government requested the Bank's
assistance in designing and implementing complex budgetary and structural reforms
at the regional level required by the Government reform program.
2



C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.   The proposed Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project is fully consistent with
the objectives of the Russia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) due to be presented to the
Board in conjunction with this operation, and with operational standards for project
quality in that it:
*  responds to the Government's request for assistance in facilitating fiscal adjustment at
the sub-national level;
*  contributes to the structural reform program by identifying the priorities of public
sector spending and expenditure programs for alternative provision by the private
sector;
*  promotes more equitable and efficient public spending through improvements in the
legal framework of inter-governmental fiscal relations;
*  builds institutional capacity for fiscal and economic management at the federal and
sub-national levels, which is a key structural reform priority.
D. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
5.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned) are described below:
Sector Issue                      Project                      Latest Supervision (Forn 590)
Ratings (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Regional fiscal management        Community Social             U                  S
Infrastructure Project (2 pilot
regions will receive technical
assistance for financial
management
Reform of expenditure and debt    Management Skills for Market   S                S
management                        Development Project (National
Training Foundation): public
finance training component
Enterprise Housing Divestiture   U              S
Project
Inter-govemmental fiscal relations  SAL III                     U                 U
Other development agencies
3



Reform of expenditure and debt  UK Know How Fund      N/A             N/A
management
Inter-governmental fiscal relations    USAID          N/A             N/A
component of tax reform project
Accounting Reform           Intemational Center for   N/A             N/A
Accounting Reformn
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.   The Bank brings experience with sub-national fiscal management, reform of inter-
governmental fiscal relations, and reform of housing and communal services in other
transitional and middle-income countries. The proposed approach under the project
would draw on Bank experience accumulated from previous operations (both adjustment
and investment projects), including those developed for other economies in transition.
One important lesson from other Bank projects in Russia (e.g., EHDP, Urban Transport,
Housing, and St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project) is that reform
developments at the sub-national level need to be closely monitored. Strengthening the
government monitoring capacity in this respect, is critical to successful project
implementation.
7.   Technical assistance loans (TALs) are traditionally among the weakest performers
in the Bank's portfolio. While the causes of poorly performing Bank TALs are a source
of continuing debate, OED's findings suggest that governance problems and weak
management have been two main reasons for their poor past performance. The Bank's
experience with TALs in Russia underscores the importance of these lessons. In this
regard, workable governance structures and strong management have been the key
considerations in selecting a project implementation agency. The Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring has been selected as the PIU for the RFTAP. The FER has
developed a strong project administration capacity, proven by an exemplary disbursement
record and high quality of outputs. Its experience, however, highlights the need to settle
the project governance arrangements and initiate procurement as early as possible in
order to avoid delays in mobilization of technical assistance, which, in the case of the
RFTAP, could jeopardize the government program of inter-governmental reform.
8.   Fiscal adjustment and sectoral performance indicators, in particular those related to
the regional structural reform of the key sectors such as housing and transport, will be
developed based on the experience of various investment projects such as the EHDP.
Reform programs recently developed by the IBRD under Public Resource Management
Loans in Kazakhstan, Kyrgystan, and other FSU states will be also taken into account.
Project preparation will benefit from smaller pieces of TA to regional governments in
Russia, being funded under ongoing Bank projects (Community and Social Infrastructure,
SPIL and Legal Reform).
4



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
9. The Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP) pursues the following
objectives: build institutional capacity to advance the reform of inter-governmental fiscal
relations, and improve fiscal performance at the sub-national level. To meet these
objectives the Project sets out four sub-goals:
• improve the legal framework for sub-national public finance and inter-governmental
fiscal relations;
* establish a mechanism for improving compliance with federal laws and regulations in
the area of fiscal management and promote fiscally responsible behavior at the sub-
national level through appropriate economic incentives;
* strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal performance and
reform efforts;
* strengthen the institutional capacity of sub-national governments to carry out fiscal
and structural reforms.
10. Key policy and institutional reforms are the focus of the Project. The Project
would: (i) promote the establishment of a stable, fair and predictable system of inter-
governmental fiscal relations which would provide sub-national governments with
appropriate incentives to undertake fiscal reforms; (ii) promote the use of modern
accounting and budgeting practices which will give a fair and representative view of the
financial position of sub-national governments; (iii) support the development of
individual regional reform programs to reduce deficit spending and improve the
efficiency of budget expenditures at the sub-national level; and (iv) improve the overall
financial stability and creditworthiness of participating sub-national governments.
B. Project Description
11. The Project will finance four components: (i) Strengthening Federal and Regional
Fiscal Legislation; (ii) Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity: Fiscal Monitoring
Division and the PIU for the RFTAP; (iii) Assistance to Sub-National Governments in
Accounting and Budgeting; and (iv) Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews.
12. Strengthening Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation (US$2.4 million).
Development and implementation of the Government's fiscal reform will require
substantial efforts in improving the current legal framework for inter-governmental
relations. Financing would be provided for local consultants and, as necessary,
international experts to assist in the completion of relevant tasks. The legal and policy
research efforts will be focused on high-priority themes such as inventory of the current
assignment of revenue and expenditures responsibilities between the federal, regional and
5



local governments; design of formula-based equalization transfers for the regions; federal
regulations for monitoring sub-national fiscal performance; and analysis of the
consistency and compatibility of existing legislation on sub-national public finance and
inter-governmental fiscal relations. It is envisaged that the work under the component
will be closely coordinated with the Legal Reform Project. In addition, the component
will provide for additional flexibility to respond to requests from senior officials on
developments in the legal environment in the form of quick-response legal/policy notes.
13. Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity: Fiscal Monitoring Division and
the PIU for the RFTAP (US$14.8 million). The component would finance the provision
of technical assistance relating to the strengthening of institutional capacity for the
design, implementation and monitoring of the fiscal and structural reforms and
performance at the sub-national level, through the financing of goods and services. These
expenditures would include: (i) computer and information technology needed for the
statistical analysis of regional data; (ii) the creation of a library and on-line databases on
regional fiscal practices and the current legislation; (iii) development and dissemination
of Principles (Code) of Good Practice for regional financial management as an extra legal
standard; (iv) design of financial disclosure requirements for sub-national and municipal
borrowers; (v) ongoing monitoring of fiscal and structural reforms and performance at the
sub-national level, as well as compliance with federal laws and regulations; (vi)
analytical support and policy advice on key issues of inter-governmental fiscal reform
and sub-national public finance; (vii) training, study tours for FMD staff and for
government staff (including regional policy-makers) participating in the project activities
to develop modem analytical skills required for the implementation of fiscal reforms;
(viii) office furnishing, administrative and computer support to the staff of the FMD and
consultants working on other project components.
14. The component includes a budget for conferences and seminars on inter-
governmental issues to promote exchanges of experts and disseminate good fiscal
management practices in the Russian regions.
15. The Project's incremental operating costs would be financed 100% from the
proceeds of the Bank loan. The MOF and regional governments would provide in-kind
contributions toward the FMD's costs (e.g., rent, utilities, senior project management,
and regional support teams). Upon expiration of the Bank loan, the core activities of the
FMD will be fully funded from the Government's budget.
16. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting
(US$10.1 million). Budgeting and fiscal management at the sub-national level in the
Russian Federation, with some possible regional exceptions, has failed to keep pace with
reforms at the federal level. The budget formulation process has not evolved from the
previous regime's practices. There is no modem treasury function for budget execution,
ex-post audit is spotty, and there is no evaluation of budget policies. Another issue of
significant importance is the lack of transparency in the regional accounting records
which impairs the capacity of lenders and the federal government to make timely and
adequate assessments of regional creditworthiness. The Government has initiated several
major efforts to improve the quality of financial reporting and budget management in the
6



regions. However, these efforts have not yet spelled out in sufficient detail the changes
needed in financial management, accounting and reporting at the regional level.
17.  To this end, the component will finance the provision of technical assistance to the
Participating Regions, in support of regional institutional development programs,
consisting of: (i) diagnostic reviews and development of reform plans in the area of
budgeting and fiscal management; (ii) financial planning, treasury and cash management;
(iii) budgetary accounting, reporting and audit; (iv) expenditure and public sector
restructuring; (v) debt management systems; (vi) regional budget procurement system;
(vii) regional fiscal management guidelines, best practice standards, and regional and
local public finance manual; (viii) computer equipment and design of software programs;
and (ix) training of local staff needed for a successful installation and subsequent
application of integrated financial management systems in the selected regions.
18. Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews (US$2.4 million). Fiscal adjustment at the
sub-national level is linked to the success of regional structural reforms. Current patterns
of regional budget expenditures-including unsustainable subsidization-indicate that
structural reforms in the regions have been slower than anticipated. The component will
assist participating regions with the design of expenditure reform plans by financing a
number of public expenditure reviews. These will primarily focus on the sectors which
have been the largest recipients of subsidies from consolidated regional budgets such as
housing and utilities, agriculture, public transportation, education and health. The reviews
are expected to result in prioritization of budget expenditures into key functional sectors,
identification of expenditure programs and projects with lower priority, introduction of
appropriate pricing policies to provide for cost recovery, as well as identification of
sectoral expenditure programs for alternative provision by the private sector. The
component is expected to generate substantial savings for regional budgets in the form of
reduced subsidies to the sectoral programs with low rates of return or/and of low public
priority.
C. Summary of Project Analysis
19. Economic. Although the Project does not lend itself to standard cost-benefit
analysis, it should improve the efficiency of public expenditure management through
increased transparency in financial reporting, increased efficiency in resource allocation
and improved targeting of subsidies and benefits at the sub-national level.
20. Financial. It has been discussed and agreed with the Government that technical
assistance to the regions be provided out of the loan on a grant basis. No on-lending to
the regions is envisaged.
21. Fiscal impact The Project is expected to have a significant fiscal impact by
promoting efficiency in public expenditure through increased transparency in budget
planning and reporting. The Project would also enable regions to reduce budget deficits,
reduce subsidies for housing and municipal services, and improve targeting of social
assistance benefits.
7



22.  Technical. It is expected that the technical assistance program will require the
services of both international and local consultants in order to ensure access to
international best practice, while at the same time ensuring timely access and proper
interpretation of existing financial data. It is assumed that relatively limited investment
will be required to develop or adapt software needed to implement new accounting and
budgeting processes.
23. Institutional. Executing agencies: The Project will be implemented by the
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring, which will be in charge of procurement and
disbursement activities. The FER staff are already experienced with Bank procedures.
The conceptual guidance under the Project is to be provided by the FMD, which shall
assist the GOR in designing, implementing and monitoring the inter-governmental fiscal
reforms. The Inter-Ministerial Working Group for Fiscal Reform will guide the reforms
and oversee the FMD's activities. The quality monitoring function will be carried out by
the Expert Council.
24. Social. Some expenditure reforms and, in particular, movement to cost recovery in
the area of housing and communal services may adversely impact low-income groups.
Consideration will be given to improvement of targeting of assistance to the poorest
groups. The project will incorporate the lessons of economic and sector work already
undertaken in this area, including the experience of the SPIL.
25. Environmental assessment- For the purposes of environmental assessment, the
Project falls into Category C.
D. Project Benefits
26. The principal project benefit will be the improved legal framework of sub-national
public finance and inter-governmental fiscal relations and structural adjustment at the
sub-national level. These would result from intensive project efforts to enhance the
existing legal framework of inter-governmental relations and improve institutional
capacity of the federal government and the regions in fiscal and economic management.
As a result of the Project, the Government is expected to retain enhanced capacity in
government institutions for analytic economic work and monitoring in the area of inter-
governmental fiscal relations. A principal benefit of the Project in the long term will be
sounder fiscal and economic policies of the regions.
E. Project Risks
27. There is a risk that the current consensus in favor of inter-governmental fiscal
reform might be lost and that the program might then stall. This risk is partially mitigated
by including representatives of the Duma and the Federation Council in the IMWG. The
reason that progress toward a more stable and transparent inter-governmental fiscal
system is important for the success of this project is that without consistent and positive
incentives in support of regional fiscal reform, technical assistance might not lead to a
change in behavior. The federal dimensions of the project, in particular, are designed to
mitigate this risk.
8



28. The possible weakening of political will to implement fiscal management reforms
at the regional level poses another risk for the Project. This could happen as a result of
the improved transparency of regional budgets and accounting procedures imposing hard
budgetary constraints on the regional administrations, thus making it difficult to resort to
off-budgetary funds or to accrue off-budgetary liabilities. Such a situation could trigger
political opposition to the Project at the sub-national level. Maintaining positive regional
perceptions of the benefits of inter-governmental fiscal reform can mitigate this risk by
rewarding those who undertake agreed reforms.
9



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
29. The total project cost is estimated at US$36.2 million, including contingencies
amounting to US$2.0 million, taxes of US$4.7 million, and an up-front fee of US$0.3
million. The Bank would finance US$30.0 million or approximately 83% of total project
costs. The estimated project cost summaries are shown in Tables 3.1 and 3.2. All project
costs are based on August 1999 prices. FMD and FER incremental staff costs were
estimated based upon current rates for local staff operating in the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring (FER) in Moscow, adjusted for current labor market conditions
in Russia.
30. Project costs include technical assistance (consulting services), training, operating
expenses of the Fiscal Monitoring Division and the PIU (Foundation for Enterprise
Restructuring), cost of goods, contingencies, and the commitment fee (1% of the loan
amount):
• Technical Assistance (TA) (US$21.5 million). TA costs were derived from terms of
reference and recent fees quoted for comparable specialized services in Bank-
financed projects in Russia. Both foreign and local consultants will be responsible for
any tax liability incurred in the course of the Project. Most of the research and
analysis conducted by the FMD will be carried out with the assistance of local
consultants contracted on both short- and long-term bases. The estimated cost for
local consultants is US$3,000 per person-month. Foreign TA will be needed to guide
FMD staff and local consultants in internationally-recognized analytical techniques in
selected policy areas. The estimated cost for foreign consultants is US$20,000 per
person-month.
* Operating Costs (US$6.8 million). The Bank would finance a part of the US$5.4
million Fiscal Monitoring Division operating costs. Bank financing of the FMD
would amount to US$3.9 million. The Bank would also finance operating costs of the
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring in the amount of US$1.4 million.
* Goods (US$1.9 million). Unit costs were based on similar goods recently purchased
in Russia from local suppliers.
10



Table 3.1
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ equivalent)
Foreign          Local            Total      Foreign as % of  Component
Total      Cost as % of
Total Cost
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Component 1. Strengthening Federal Legislation
1.1. technical assistance                        1,962,000        218,000        2,180,000           90%            6%
Project Component 2. Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity *
2.1. technical assistance                        6,670,800        654,000        7,324,800           91%           20%
Project Component 3. Assistance to Sub-National Governments
3.1 technical assistance                         5,668,000       2,180,000       7,848,000           72%           22%
Project Component 4. Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews
4.1 technical assistance                                0        2,180,000       2,180,000            0%            6%
Total Technical Assistance     14,300,800       5,232,000       19,532,800          73%
B. OPERATING EXPENSES
Fiscal Monitoring Division Operating Costs              0        5,446,300       5,446,300            0%           15%
PMU Operating Costs                                     0        1,389,500        1,389,500           0%            4%
Total Operating Expenses               0        6,835,800       6,835,800            0%
C. GOODS                                         1,800,000        480,000        2,280,000           79%            6%
D. PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           1,430,080       1,501,320       2,931,400           49%            8%
E. VAT on SERVICES                               3,146,176       1,151,040       4,297,216           73%            12%
F. FEE (1% of the Loan)                                 0         300,000          300,000            0%            1%
TOTAL PROJECT COST             20,677,056      15,500,160       36,177,216          57%          100%°
11



Table 3.2
Project Financing Plan
US$, including taxes
Foreign   Local      Total     Foreign as
% of Total
GOR                            0  6,77,26  6T77,21            ()%
World Bank             16,100,800 10,667,8U0  26,768,600     60%
Contingencies           1,430,080  10320  2,931,400 
Fee (1% of the Loan)    -     0      30,lU0 o300,W            0%
Total                  17,530,880 18,646,336 36,177,216      48%
% of Total                   4/8%       52o      100%
B. The Borrower's Financial Contribution
31.  Total Government financing would be US$6.2 million. This amount would be
comprised of in-kind contributions toward the FMD's recurrent costs (see Table 3.3 for
details), as well as 100% of any taxes/duties on goods and VAT on consultant services.
Expenses eligible for financing under this arrangement would include: staff salaries, rent,
travel, and utilities.
•  US$1.5 million of the FMQ's operating expenses The FMD's operating costs
amount to US$5.4 million, of which the Borrower would be responsible for covering
US$1.5 million. The Borrower's portion would be comprised of in-kind contributions
spread over the life of the Project (see Tables 3.3 and 3.4).
* Taxes and duties levied on Goods (US$0.4 million). The Borrower would be
responsible for covering all taxes and duties levied on Goods.
* Taxes (VAT) on Consultant Services (US$4.3 million). The Borrower would be
responsible for covering all VAT charges levied on Consultant Services.
12



Table 3.3
Value of Government's In-Kind Contribution
(US$ equivalent)
per year       over 5 years
1. Central Office:
Staff                             113T,52C            567,600
Rent                        * 340,800                 204,000
'lravel                                                 3,500
Utilities                           3,40C              17,000
2. Regional Offices:
Staft                            1T34,64C             673,200
Rent                               14,4()              72,00U()
TOTAL                             3U7,46C           1,537,300
Table 3.4
Proposed Schedule of Government Staffing under the Project
(man months)
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    Total
Regional Government Contribution
Regional Support Teams          108    108   108    108    108       540
MOF Contribution to Moscow
D
Division Head                    12     12    12      12      12      60
Deputy Division Head             12     12    12      12      12      60
Consultants                     12      24    36      48     48      168
Chief Specialist                 24     24    24      24     24      120
Leading Specialist              12      24    24      24     24      108
Sub-Total                       72      96   108    120    120       516
Total Man-Months                180    204   216    228    228    1,056
C. Procurement
32. All Bank-financed goods and consultant services would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999), respectively. National
Shopping (NSH) procurement would require that original price quotations and receipts
from suppliers be kept on file for review/audit purposes during supervision missions. The
FER's Administrative Departnent would be responsible for tracking procurement actions
and approvals as well, as periodically reporting to the Bank on procurement progress.
13



Two additional procurement staff will be hired to work in the PIU, including one Senior
Procurement Specialist, and one Associate Procurement Specialist. Also, staff will be
trained through periodic training workshops conducted by the Bank.
* General Procurement- The majority of procurement actions under the proposed
project would be for consultant services. To ensure that the standard of consultants
procured under the Project were of sufficiently high quality, the FER would submit
for the Bank's prior review terms of reference for all consultant contracts.
Advertisements would be place in Development Business, and expressions of interest
from firms sought for all ICB and consultant contracts. UJNDB publications will be
updated annually. Tables in Annex 2 list the applicable method of procurement for
each goods or consultant services package.
•  Goods. An estimated US$1.9 million worth of goods would be procured, including
office supplies, furniture and equipment for the FER and FMD, and computers for the
participating regions. All office supplies, furniture and equipment would be
purchased using the National Shopping (NSH) procurement method, grouped in
packages not to exceed US$50,000 (US$550,000 total). As such, none of the
packages would require prior Bank approval. To minimize the number of contracts
and reduce the unit costs, computers for the regions would be purchased in packages
of about US$700,000 each (US$1.5 million total). These packages would be procured
using the ICB method and require prior Bank approval.
*  TechnicalAssistance/Consulting Services- Approximately US$21.5 million in
consultant services contracts would be procured to provide technical assistance in the
form of specialists/advisers, studies, training programs, seminars and workshops.
Tlhese items would be covered under four primary components (i.e., Strengthening
Federal Legislation; Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity; Assistance to Sub-
National Governments in Regional Fiscal Reform; and Sectoral Public Expenditure
Reviews).
*  Operating Costs. These costs, in the amount of US$6.8 million, include incremental
operating costs of the FER and FMD related to Project implementation and will be
based on annual budgets approved by the Bank. The staff will be employed in
accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines and should be experienced, capable, and
their terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank and subject to prior
review.
14



Table 3.5: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                     Total
Project Element            ICB      NCB      Other   N.B.F.    Cost
1. Works
2. Goods
Office Equipment,                     1.8                0.5               2.3
Computers, Printers                  (1.5)             (0.4)              (1.9)
3. Consultancies                                        25.8              25.8
Technical Assistance                                  (21.5)             (21.5)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                           6.8               6.8
(5.3)             (5.3)
5. Unallocated                                           1.0               1.0
(1.0)             (1.0)
6. Front-End Fee                                         0.3               0.3
(0.3)             (0.3)
Total                                 1.8               34.4              36.2
Total Bank Financed                  (1.5)            (28.5)             (30.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amnounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
D. Disbursements
33. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over 5 years, closing on December 31,
2004. The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services; (ii)
100% of expenditures for training, seminars/workshops and study tours; (iii) 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; and (iv) 100% of recurrent costs of the
FMD and FER (minus staff, rent, travel and utilities costs covered by the Borrower as in-
kind contributions).
34. Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special
Account in US dollars in a commercial bank in Russia. It is envisaged that the FER
would perform the duties assigned to a PIU, including the procurement of consultant
services and disbursement of loan funds and coordination of project activities. The
Special Account would finance operation of the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
and the FMD. In the initial phase of the Project, the balance for the Special Account
would be limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate amount disbursed under
the loan reached US$3.0 million, the initial allocation would be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$1.0 million by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months,
and would include reconciled bank statements, as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
15



35. Disbursements based on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) would be used for: (i)
consulting firms below US$100,000 equivalent (including studies and training); and (ii)
conferences, workshops and seminars. Documentation supporting the SOEs would be
retained by the FER and FMD and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions and auditors.
36. Accounts andAudits- The FER will maintain a single set of project accounts,
including the account of the FMD and the Special Account. An audit of the accounts will
be performed annually in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. All projects
implemented by the FER shall be audited as a single entity: the RFTAP will be included
among these projects. Once the annual audit has been performed, it will be submitted to
the Bank by the FER within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. For
further details, see the Financial Capacity Assessment Report (Annex 6).
TABLE 3.6
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
US$ million
Bank Fiscal Year  2000    2001             2002             2003              2004             2005
Semester       Jan 00 -  Jul 00-  Jan 01 -  Jul 01-  Jan 02 -  Jul 02 -  Jan 03 -  Jul 03 -  Jan 04 -  Jul 04 -
Jun 00   Dec 00  Jun 01   Dec 01   Jun 02   Dec 02  Jun 03   Dec 03  Jun 04   Dec 04
Per Semester (%)    4%       4%      14%     15%      22%      24%/o    6%       5%       3%      3%
Per Semester ($)     1.2     1.2      4.2     4.5      6.6      7.2      1.8     1.5      0.9      0.9
Cumulative (%)      4%       8%    22%      37%      59%,    83%°    89%       940%/    97%    1/0
Cumulative (S)
Cumulative (S)      1.2     2.4      6.61    11.1    17.71    24.9    26.7    28.2    29.1    30.0
Table 3.7
Disbursements by Category
World Bank Financing
Category                Amount (US$)        Percentage of Expenditures to be Financed
1.  Goods                                      1,900,000  100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
2.  Consultants' Services                     21,500,000  100%
3.  Incremental Operating Costs                5,300,000  100%
4.  Unallocated                                1,000,000
5.  Fee                                         300,000
1TOTAL                                   30,000,000
16



E. Project Implementation: Management Structure
37. Overall Project Management Structure The Government of the Russian
Federation has created the Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to represent its
interests for the purposes of this project. It is the intention of the IMWG to build capacity
in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) both to monitor regional fiscal performance and to
design and guide the implementation of policies and regulations in this sphere. The
IMWG has decided to implement the Project through a special unit based in the MOF,
known as the Fiscal Monitoring Division (FMD), which shall provide substantive
leadership for this project and for the Government's relations with the World Bank on
regional fiscal policy and to act as its secretariat. In order to assist with project
implementation, the MOF has created a special division on monitoring of regional
finance in its Department of Inter-Budgetary Relations. The Head of this division, who is
also the Deputy Department Head in the MOF, will act as the Project Director and Head
of the FMD. The IMWG has also designated the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
and Financial Institutions Development (FER) to assist project implementation with
administrative, procurement, accounting and other procedural support. A discussion of
the key elements of the project management structure follows (see also Project
Organizational Chart).
38. The Inter-Ministerial Working Group. The IMWG is composed of representatives
of key government agencies involved in designing and implementing inter-governmental
fiscal reforms such as the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Regional Policy,
Ministry of Economy, Apparatus of the President, the Working Center for Economic
Reforms, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and has the decision-making powers
commensurate with the task of carrying out inter-governmental and regional fiscal reform
in the Russian Federation. The IMWG establishment is part of the overall Government
concept of inter-budgetary relations reform. The First Deputy Chairman of the
Government chairs the Group. The key functions of the IMWG are: (i) strategic
management of the Project; (ii) coordination of Project activities with other Government
efforts in this area; (iii) approval of draft decrees and resolutions prepared under the
Project and their submission to the Government; (iv) coordination of efforts between
federal and regional authorities; and (v) overall supervision of the FMD and FER
performance under the Project. In order to implement these functions, the IMWG
approves the annual work plans and budgets for the Project, approves the key Project
documents, approves the regions for participation in the Project, oversees the core
activities of the FMD, approves the main TOR and consultant reports, approves the
evaluation committees for the Project, and approves the Project Director.
39. Fiscal Monitoring Division. The main objective of the FMD is implementation and
monitoring of the reform of the inter-governmental fiscal relations at the national and
regional level. Under the Project, the FMD would be responsible for the design of the
monitoring system to be further supported by the MOF after the Project's completion. It
will also be responsible for the supervision and coordination of Project activities on all
components. The FMD will act as a designated agent of the IMWG in carrying out
Project activities.
17



40. The FMD's tasks and Project-related activities would be directly linked to the
MOF's fiscal reform agenda, which would be ensured by the MOF's representation in the
IMWG and contribution of MOF staff to the FMD. MOF would instruct regional finance
departments and the regional administrations to provide the FMD with fiscal data
necessary for its analytical work. The FMD would prepare annual budget estimates for
project-related activities (tasks) and submit them to the IMWG for approval.
41. The Head of the FMD (Project Director) is the head of the monitoring division of
the MOF and has been appointed by the IMWG. The FMD staff consists of the staff of
the monitoring division of the MOF, to be supplemented by consultants hired through the
Project. The MOF will initially contribute 5 staff members to the FMD, with this number
to increase over the life of the project to 10 in the year 2004. After project completion the
MOF is expected to be able to perform the monitoring functions of the FMD using only
the staff of its monitoring division and the staff hired by the regions.
42. The staff of the FMD will report to the FMD Head on all substantive issues of
project implementation. Hiring of all consultants for the FMD will be subject to World
Bank procurement rules for the selection of individuals. At least three (3) candidates will
be reviewed for each position. Once the appropriate candidate is identified, the FER will
issue a contract to the selected individual. All contracts would be signed for no longer
than one (1) year and could be renewed upon the request of the FMD Head, subject to
satisfactory performance of the consultant.
43. The FMD staffing plan is as follows (see also FMD Organizational Chart):
The FMD Head is a public servant reporting to the IMWG. He has been appointed and
released from his regular duties by the Minister of Finance, as approved by the IMWG.
He is also the Head of the Monitoring Division of the MOF and therefore will have direct
authority over the MOF staff in the FMD. The FMD Head will be in charge of all
conceptual and analytical work within the Project, as well as building and maintaining
government fiscal monitoring capacity in the MOF and in the regions. In particular, the
FMD Head will perform the following tasks:
• provide conceptual guidance and supervise all project related tasks;
* design and manage the capacity within the FMD to perform the statistical analysis of
regional data;
* create computer linkages with the Ministry of Finance and the regions, establish a
library and on-line databases on regional fiscal practices and the current legislation
for analytical work of the FMD itself, for the regional policy-makers, for investors
and for the general public;
* manage monitoring of regional compliance with federal laws and regulations as well
as with the RFRP regional conditionalities;
* provide analytical support and policy advice to the government on key issues of inter-
governmental reform;
* organize publication and dissemination of Good Practice standards for regional
finance managers.
18



The major part of the FMD staff would work under the Strengthening Federal Monitoring
and Capacity Component that is the major part of the project. Two Senior Experts would
assist the FMD Head in this work. The Senior Fiscal Analyst would coordinate the work
of five (5) regional fiscal analysts financed from the loan and four (4) MOF-financed
specialists. The number of WB financed specialists would decrease to two (2) in the third
year of project implementation and to one (1) in the fourth year. This reduction would be
substituted by the increase of the MOF-financed specialists to five (5) in year two of the
project, seven (7) in year three, and eight (8) in year four, at which stage they should be
able to work with the monitoring system designed under the Project without external
assistance. The major functions of the analytical group include:
organization of regional financial reviews in order to select the regions eligible for
borrowing under the RFRP and other World Bank lending programs;
establishment of the information system needed for the statistical analysis of regional
data and computer linkages with the Ministry of Finance and the regions.
44. The Senior Expert on Coordination with the Regions would be responsible for
all activities of the Project at the sub-national level. He/she would be assisted by the
regional support teams (initially six (6) tearns with three (3) persons in each team
working during the first three years of the project) and regional representatives (working
during the last three years of the project in all regions). The major work of this group
would be related to coordination of all project activities in the regions, including the
public expenditure reviews and technical assistance to the regional governments. In
addition, he/she will be responsible for:
* providing technical assistance to sub-national governments in budgeting and financial
reporting, accounting, expenditure management, and debt management;
_ assisting the FMD in development of the database on regional fiscal practices and the
current legislation to meet the research needs of the FMD and the MOF;
* developing a Code of Good Practice for regional financial management as an extra-
legal standard; and
* establishing relevant status and incentives/sanctions for compliance/non-compliance
with federal laws and regulations as well as with the RFRP regional conditionalities.
45. The work of consultants under the Monitoring Component would be supervised by
the FMD Head, assisted by the Senior Fiscal Analyst and the Senior Expert on
Coordination with the Regions. They will be responsible for the preparation of the TORs
and the tenders, initial selection of project contractors, evaluation of technical proposals,
and approval of results of Consultants' work. The FMD Head would determine the
detailed division of work between the two Senior Specialists.
46. All other Component Managers (Senior Coordinators) will report to the FMD
Head on substantive matters. They will be responsible for the preparation of TORs, initial
selection of project contractors, evaluation of technical proposals, approval of results of
Consultants' work, and coordination with the World Bank, the IMWG, and the Expert
Council. All component managers would work till the end of the project, except for the
Senior Coordinator of the Public Expenditure Review Component.
19



47. The Senior Coordinator of the Regional Technical Assistance Component
would be assisted by one expert. They would provide technical and analytical support in
the implementation of this project component. The Senior Coordinator of the
Legislative Component would supervise legal research, coordinate activities of the legal
component with developments under the World Bank Legal Reform Project, and organize
quick policy/legal expert reviews and consultations upon request from the IWMG. The
Legal Expert would support him/her. The Senior Coordinator of the Public
Expenditure Reviews would manage the Public Expenditure Review Component of the
Project. This specialist would organize the regional fiscal reviews to determine the
overall fiscal health of the regions and identify potential areas for improvements.
48. ProjectIImplementation Unit (PjU). The Non-Commercial Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) would be
responsible for compliance with all World Bank procedures, including the procurement,
financial management, accounting, reporting and audits. The FER would provide similar
support to the MOF in implementation of contracts under all project components. The
FER would report to the IMWG, which would assume the functions of the FER Project
Management committee (such committees are envisaged by the FER Charter for all its
projects).
49. The Director General, supported by two Deputy Director Generals, leads the FER's
management team. The FER's functional organization is divided into two types of
budgetary groups: general services and project groups. General services consist of the
following departments: management, secretariat, contract, finance and accounting.
General services are responsible for procurement, disbursement, and financial
management and contract management. Costs of the general services departments are
allocated to operating costs categories of all projects in proportion, reviewed and agreed
by the PMC and approved by the Board. It is envisaged that approximately 15% of the
general services department costs would be allocated to the RFTAP project annually (this
is equivalent of approximately three full-time professionals and two full-time support
staff).
50. The Contract Management Department handles all issues of procurement,
contract monitoring and legal support. Staff of the Department consist of the following:
Manager of the Procurement Department/Senior Legal Counsel, Senior Procurement
Officer, Procurement Specialist/Legal Counsel and Assistant. The Manager of the
Department reports to the Deputy Director. Due to the increased workload of the contract
management department related to new projects, it is expected that at least two (2)
additional Procurement Specialists would be hired by the FER. Specific staff of the
Contract Management department would be appointed to be responsible for the RFTAP
contracts. They would be assisted, if necessary, by other staff of the Contract
Management Department.
51. The Finance Department is headed by the Director of Finance, supported by three
staff: a Disbursement Specialist, a Junior Disbursement Specialist, and a Specialist on
Sub-Loan Management. The Director of the Finance Department reports to the Deputy
Director General. Included within the responsibilities of the Finance Department are the
preparation of project financial management reports in conformity with Bank
20



requirements, as well as monthly reporting to the Ministry of Finance. Due to the
increased workload of the Contract Management Department related to the new projects,
it is expected that at least one (1) additional Financial Analyst would be hired by the
FER. A new integrated project accounting and reporting system would be developed by
the FER, in order to comply with LACI requirements. This system would significantly
reduce the workload of the finance department. Specific staff of the Finance Department
would be appointed to be responsible for RFTAP contracts. They would be assisted, if
necessary, by other staff of the Finance Department.
52. The Accounting Department is headed by Chief Accountant, who is supported by
two permanent Staff Accountants and one full-time Consultant. The Chief Accountant
reports directly to the Director General. The Accounting Department is responsible for
producing financial statements in compliance with Russian law and International
Accounting Standards, as well as for ensuring compliance with current tax law. Due to
the introduction of the new project accounting system, no cost increases are envisaged in
the accounting department.
53. Expert Council (EC). The EC provides quality oversight of the FMD's work. Also,
upon the Head of the FMD's request, it will review project outputs such as: terms of
reference, draft laws, regulations, and policy studies. Once a year it will prepare quality
review reports and submit them to the IMWG and the Project Director. It will report to
the IMWG. In addition, the Expert Council would perform a general advisory role in
support of IWMG and FMD operations and Project implementation functions.
54. The Expert Council would consist of three members-one (1) international expert,
and two (2) Russian experts. In the absence of FMD Head, the EC's clearance will be
required for any Project deliverable to be presented to the FER for payment. EC members
would be appointed to and released from their duties by the IMWG, as well as report to
the IMWG.
55. Procurement and Disbursement under the Project. The Project procurement and
disbursement process is illustrated in the following Organizational Charts. Contractors
for specific Project-related tasks would be hired on a competitive basis only, including
individual consultants to be hired by the FER in support of the FMD's operations. The
Project Tender Commission would be responsible for the final selection of contractors for
all project tasks. The Tender Commission would include representatives from the key
government agencies involved in project implementation including: Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Regional Policy, and the FER. To proceed with the
final selection of contractors, the TOR for each project task would be prepared by the
FMD on the basis of the annual Project work program. The annual work program would
be cleared by the IMWG and by the World Bank and would be consistent with the overall
Project Implementation Plan specified in the loan documents, including the Project
Appraisal Report.
56. Upon receiving a project deliverable for a specific Project task, a Line Manager of
a Project Component would perform its initial evaluation, and, if satisfied, would submit
it for clearance to the FMD Head, or in his absence to the EC. The FMD would approve
the report and submit an invoice for payment by the FER. In certain cases. World Bank
21



"no objection" letters and clearances from the IMWG would be required as well. The
FER's Finance and Accounting Departnents will process the application in accordance
with internal review procedures, check the compliance of the invoice and the supporting
documents with the Consultants' contract provisions and WB requirements and would
then make payment to the contractor. It is expected that if no major deficiencies are
identified in the invoice and supporting documents an FER internal review would be
performed and invoice submitted for payments within five (5) working days of receipt of
the approved report from the FMD.
57. Production of TORs. This process is the same as the process of the Projects
Outcomes Delivery, with one exception: the IMWG's clearance is required for TORs
related to legal policy design in inter-govermmental reform.
22



Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
Inter-Ministeial Working Group
(FER Project Management Committee)
Exert Counci     
FoundaEiGn for Enterprise Restructuanng                           Fiscal Monftoning Division
I                                                           I    - -
General Director                                               FMD Head
Project Director
Deputy Head of the MOF
Inter-Budgetary Relations Department
FER General Departments Staff      Project Consultants            FMD ConsuHtants           MOF Monitoring Division Staff
(Part-Time)                    (Firms)                  (see separate chart)             GOR Financed
Reporting to FMD           Reporting to FMD Head
Hired by FER                  Hire by FER
Procurement Support
Accounting Support
Administrativeisuorati
23



Fiscal Monitoring Division
Organizational Chart
FMD Head            i           Expen Cound
DepuTa  Depadrnen( Head F l ahe MsOF (5Foreign Exped
(GOR Financed)                    lclEpd"
M lonitodngComponent                                     Legisiiaive Cofponegd      Technical Assistance Component       Pubk ExpendiWre
Z                   j i    ~~~~~Revews Component
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr. Coordinator  I  St. Coordinator    i          Coordibator
Fin~                 (GOR   anca Nc (B Finane)                                                (IB Financed)          i        IFanc
Sr.1Exped on                                   |    St.Fiscal Ana"                 Coordinator      ICoordinator
Coordinaion wW  Regioins                             i        B-financeo              (WB Finan;ed)      |           WFinanced)
(IN Fi8nanced...
(AB Fmanceo                (WoB Financeo        |      GRFiacd)             ,      eB lianced)
24



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ANNEXES
25



ANNEX 1
PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
26



PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
Project development objectives         Goals                            Actions                             Indicators
Improved intergovernmental   Stable, fair and predictable  Strengthen federal monitoring capacity    Computerized information network for
fiscal relations             system of intergovernmental                                        fiscal monitoring in place
fiscal relations
Inventory expenditure assignments   Inventories of expenditure assignments
among various levels of govemment    completed
Clarify expenditure assigmnents among    Laws and legal amendments on
various levels of government         expenditure assignments drafted
Phase out unfunded mandates          Laws and legal amendments on unfunded
mandates drafted
Improved fiscal performance at   Modern accounting and    Implement Treasury principles of budget  Treasury principles of budget execution
the regional and municipal level  budgeting                execution                           implemented
Adopt a Code of Good Practice of     Regional compliance with clauses of
regional fiscal management           Code of Good Practice improved
Prepare model draft laws on reporting,    Laws on reporting, budgeting and budget
budgeting and budget management      management drafted
Install computerized information network  Computerized systems, in particular
for decision-making and reporting   financial reporting, installed
purposes
Prepare model draft laws on capital and    Model laws on capital and multi-year
multi-year budgeting                 budgeting drafted
Prepare model draft laws on budget audits  Model laws on budget audits drafted
Modern debt management       Adopt a system for debt management   Regional borrowing and debt servicing
profiles improved
Stable, fair and predictable  Design formula-based equalization   Formula-based equalization transfers
system of intra-governmental    transfers                         designed
fiscal relations
27



ANNEX 2
PROCUREMENT PLAN
28



1. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Russian Federation: Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~n1  r~rmn  ~1w__ _ _ _ _ _ __;  __                                                                                       __
Category                                     ICB                     NCB                    NSH               Other Methods       Percentage of loan amount
subject to prior review
1. Civil Works
1. 1. Procurement Thresholds
1.2. Prior Review
2. Goods
2.1 Procurement Thresholds:              >US$200,000                                     >US$50,000
US$1 .8m                                       US$0.5m                                           5%
(US$1 .5m)                                     (US$0.4m)
2.2. Prior Review                             All                                      First two contracts
3. Consultant Services                      QCBS
3.1. Aggregate Amounts                     US$25.8m
(US$21 .5m)
3.2. Prior Review                       IC: All TOR and
standard contract; Firms'
Contracts >US$t00,000:                                                                                 95%
All TOR, short lists,
RFP, ER and contracts.
Ex-Post Review                       Ex-post review will be required of Consultant contracts below the threshold, plus Goods purchased under NSH.
5. Brief statement: The Contracts Management Department of FER has at present four staff (3 Specialists and I Assistant) and is planning to recruit two more Procurement Specialists to
increase capacity. The new staff will not be assigned specifically to the new project, but will take their share of the overall workload in accordance with a clear distribution of
responsibilities within the Department.
6. Country Procurement Assessment Report    7. Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year be ready by negotiations?  Yes
8. Est. date of Project Launch  9. Date of General Procurement Notice   10. Indicate if there is procurement  11. Domestic Preference for    12. Domestic Preference for
Workshop: Januasy 2000       publication: August 31, 1999        subject to mandatory SPN in     Goods: Yes                   Consultant Services: No
IDevelopment Business: Yes       Works: No
13. Retroactive financing: No               14. Advanced Procurement: No
15. Brief description of the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER) will maintain complete procurement files, which
will be reviewed by the Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated regularly. Procurement information will be recorded by the FER and submitted to the Bank as
part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, status of contracts, and completion time for individual contracts; and compliance on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information
System (MIS), with a procurement module, will help the FER monitor all procurement information.
16. Name of Procurement Staff Member on the Project Team: Karl Skansing, Moscow RM  Division: ECCRU             Tel. 7-095-745-7000 (ext. 2073)
17. Brief description of the role expected of the Field Office in Procurement: The Moscow RM will provide procurement review and back-up to the Project team.
29



2. Procurement Schedule
Russian Federation: Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
<Lr'J2               4I
A. CIVIL WORKS
B. GOODS
1. Office Equipment/Supplies           Goods       01-08/G        NSH             N/A             N/A             N/A              N/A
2. Computers/Printers - Regions                    09-1 I/G        ICB            Jan-0I         Apr-O          Jul-0I          Dec-03
C. SERVICES
1. Strengthen Federal Legislation
1.01 Inter-governmental fiscal     Consultant   RF/CS/1.1       QCBS           Feb-00          Apr-00          Nov-00          Jun-04
relations, regional budgeting and debt
1.02 Regional development fund         "       RF/CS/1.2        QCBS           Feb-00          Mar-00          Jul-00          Apr-02
-                    ONNI.'A   .
2. Strengthening Federal Monitoring
Capacity
2.01 "Standard" monitoring system  Consultant   RF/CS/2.1       QCBS            Jan-0 I        Mar-O           Oct-0 I         Jun-04
2.02 "Extended" and "special"                   RF/CS/2.2       QCBS           Mar-00          May-00          Dec-00           Jun-04
monitoring ratings
2.03 Fiscal statistic database         "        RF/CS/2.3       QCBS           Feb-00          May-00          Nov-00          Apr-03
development
3. Assistance to Sub-National
Governments
3.01 Financial planning, treasury and    Consultant   RF/CS/3.1  QCBS          Mar-00          May-00          Dec-00           Sep-03
cash management
3.02 Budgetary accounting, reporting   "        RF/CS/3.2       QCBS           Mar-00          May-00          Dec-00           Sep-03
and audit
3.03 Expenditure and public sector     "        RF/CS/3.3       QCBS           Oct-OO          Dec-00          Jul-0I           Feb-04
restructuring
3.04 Debt management system            "        RF/CS/3.4       QCBS           Oct-OO          Dec-00          Jul-0I           Feb-04
3.05 Regional budget procurement       "        RF/CS/3.5       QCBS           Oct-00          Nov-00          May-01           Feb-04
system
3.06 Regional fiscal management        "        RF/CS/3.6       QCBS           Nov-01          Jan-02          Jul-02          Aug-04
guidelines and best practice standards,
develop regional and local public
finance manual
30



4. Sectoral Public Expenditure
Reviews
4.01 Housing/Utilities            Consultant  RF.ICS/4.1       QCBS           Nov-99          Dec-99         May-00           Oct-00
4.02 Education                                 RF/CS/4.2       QCBS           Nov-99          Dec-99         May-00           Oct-00
4.03 Health                                    RF/CS/4.3       QCBS           Nov-99          Dec-99         May-00           Oct-00
4.04 Social Protection                         RF/CS/4.4       QCBS           Nov-00          Dec-00          Apr-01          Oct-01
4.05 Culture and Recreation                    RFICSI4.5       QCBS           Nov-00          Dec-00          Apr-01          Oct-01
4.06 Public Transportation                     RF/CS/4.6       QCBS           Nov-00          Dec-00          Apr-01I         Oct-0 1
4.07 Industry, Construction and                RF/CSI4.7       QCBS           Dec-00          Jan-01         May-01           Oct-01
Agriculture
4.08 Law Enforcement                           RF/CS/4.8       QCBS           Dec-00          Jan-01I        May-01           Oct-01
4.09 Regional/Local Governance                 RF/CSI4.9       QCBS           Dec-00          Jan-01         May-01           Oct-01
5. Project Management
A. Operating Expenses FER
i. Staff
ii. Consultants                                                   IC
iii. Fixed Assets                     Goods                      NSH
iv. Rent
v. Communications
vi. Property Insurance
vii. Operational Expenses
viii. Travel
ix. Staff Training
x. Conferences/Seminars
xi. Project Audit
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
FMD
i. Staff
ii. Consultants                                                   IC
iii. Travel
iv. Fixed Assets                      Goods                       NSH
v. Operational Expenses
vi. Communications (tel/fax/post)
vii. Miscellaneous
viii. Staff Training
ix. Conferences/Sem inars           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
31



Goods                                   G           11
Int'l Competitive Bidding            ICB          3
National Shopping                   NSH           8
Consultant Services                    CS           20
Quality and Cost Based Selection    QCBS          20
TOTAL                                               31
32



ANNEX 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
33






RUSSIAN FEDERATION - REGIONAL FISCAL TA PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
About the Project:
The Project seeks to contribute to the reform of Russian sub-national government finance
across a broad front, both geographically (six regions) and functionally (all aspects of sub-
national fiscal management). It is both amnbitious and complex, and involves a significant
number of separate but interdependent components of technical assistance, which must work
effectively together if the Project is to achieve its goals efficiently and on time.
The Project consists of four major components of external TA, each of which will be
procured as a whole, but consists of a number of sub-components. The major components are;
1. Strengthening Federal Legislation on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Sub-
national Public Finance
2. Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity and Development of Standards for
Regional Finance Management
3. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting
4. Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews.
It is essential that work on each of these components takes full account of (and where
relevant also contributes to) work that is being done on the other components. The Project covers
ground that also is being or has been examined by other Russian- or donor-financed work
("Associated Projects"). It is important that due account is taken of this work, and that it is
incorporated where appropriate as inputs into this Project.
Project Management: Fiscal Monitoring Division ("FMD") and Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring:
Project implementation will formally be handled by the Foundation for Enterprise
Restructuring (FER), but day-to-day management will be provided by the Fiscal Monitoring
Division (FMD) of the Ministry of Finance, which is intended to become the focal point for
management standards in Russian regional finance, and the central repository for all information
about regional finances.
FMD will also have an advisory role in recommending legal and extra-legal standards for
all aspects of regional government finance in Russia, including advice to the Inter-Ministerial
Working Group (IMWG) on improving all aspects of budgeting, accounting, and the preparation
of financial reports for electors/tax-payers, central government, management, suppliers and
creditors; and the setting of standards for financial management generally in regional
govermment. FMD will advise the IMWG on the desired content and structure of legislation and
regulation, (iricluding "extra-legal" instruments such as a code of Good Practice with compliance
encouraged by incentives, as opposed to legal requirements where non-compliance is penalized
by legal sanctions).
34



More specifically, FM:D will perform the following functions:
*  developing and specifying the regulatory standards for monitoring regional finance;
*  establishing the tools for monitoring regional finance;
*  specification of monitoring needs for each of the identified future functions
*  monitor compliance with federal requirements, for purposes of authorizing federal
Budget Transfers;
*  developing research- and databank.
The FMD is therefore responsible (under IMWG and MinFin authority) for the direction
and integration of the various parts of the Project within the Terms of Reference, and for using
its discretion to ensure that TA resources are used as efficiently as possible to cover the areas of
greatest incremental need, including organisation of routine exchange of information between the
contributors to the TA, and by running a "steering committee" for the Project. Providers of TA
will be expected to contribute to this forum, and to receive direction from it, within their terms of
reference.
Concept Paper:
A paper entitled "Concepts of Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform in the Russian Federation,
1999 - 2001", prepared by the Government of the Russian Federation in 1998, defines the
objectives, particularly in respect of intergovernmental issues. The FMD will be available to help
provide updates and interpret priorities in the implementation of this paper.
Inventory, Associated Projects:
An Inventory of Associated Projects, covering other TA work on topics similar to those
under the Project, will be provided to prospective bidders for TA work hereunder. (A draft is
attached as Schedule xxxx) No assurance is given that this Inventory is yet complete, and no
guarantee is given as to the quality of the output from the activities listed in this Inventory.
The Associated Projects are those where the subject matter overlaps particularly closely
with the goals of this Project, where the quality of the work is regarded as good, and which in
many cases formed known antecedents of the Project. Of particular importance will be a series of
diagnostic studies and reform plans to be undertaken with IBRD loan funding in parallel with
this Project, in the six subjects participating in this Project - but Associated Projects are in no
sense limited to these studies. Attention should therefore be given to the output of all Associated
Projects, and active working dialogue be established wherever possible.
Wherever possible, output material from the Associated Projects will be made available via
the FMD to those working on TA components of this Project - this material will eventually form
one core component of a library to be developed by FMD in the course of this Project.
Conversely, it is expected that all other suitable source material created or located by those
working on the components of this Project, that is not yet in the Inventory, will be passed on for
inclusion in the Inventory and in the library, and to that extent be in the public domain.
35



Timetable demands:
Many of the tasks described in the TOR will be more efficiently and more effectively
executed if proper communication is established with relevant other components in this Project,
or from Associated Projects. A strengthened and more consistent legal environment requires
establishment of what the law is intended to achieve, and what contradictions exist in current
legislation. Regional reform plans will be more satisfactory if they correctly understand the
direction of forthcoming legal and regulatory change - while legal and regulatory change will be
more successful if it responds to actual circumstances in the regions. If time and cost were no
object, then each task could be discrete, with its precedent needs dependent only on its own
research. In reality, outputs from the Project are required urgently, and much of the precedent
need is already largely or partially satisfied by Associated Projects. Other precedent needs of
some components are a direct topic for other components.
Those invited to contribute TA under this Project will be required to inform themselves as
closely as possible about the output of the Associated Projects and other relevant components of
this Project, to evaluate it and wherever possible to incorporate it in early provisional
recommendations, that will allow dependent activities to move ahead. In due course, providers of
TA will be expected to verify or correct the implied assumptions about the validity of this
precedent work, and where necessary to issue amended recommendations.
Many of the components of this Project therefore call for Provisional Outputs, based on
work assimilated from elsewhere (Associated Projects, or other components of this Project), to
allow dependent work to get started on a timely basis; and later Definitive Outputs, involving the
verification (or amendment) of the provisional conclusions, and the generation of the definitive
outputs.
The FMD, in its project management capacity, will assist in the flow of this inter-task and
Associated Project information.
36






PROJECT COMPONENT 1
STRENGTHENING OF FEDERAL LEGISLATION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL FISCAL
RELATIONS AND SUB-NATIONAL PUBLIC FINANCE
1. Background
The Russian Federation has undergone significant reforms in its system of
intergovernmental fiscal relations over the past six years. The Budget Code, approved by the
Duma, and Part I of the Tax Code that became effective in January 1999, address many aspects
of two of the four pillars of any system of intergovernmental fiscal relations: fiscal management
and budgeting, and revenue and tax assignments, respectively. The two other pillars of a system
of intergovernmental fiscal relations, expenditure assignments and the system of transfers will
need to be addressed in separate legislation.
Lack of clarity in expenditure assignments between the federal, regional, and local
governments continues to be a vexing problem in the system of intergovernmental fiscal
relations in the Russian Federation. The issue of expenditure assignments is addressed in the
Budget Code but without sufficient detail and clarity. Lack of clarity in expenditure assignments
and the extensive use of unfunded expenditure mandates from upper-level governments threaten
to result in inefficient expenditure patterns and fiscally irresponsible behavior.
The Government introduced a formula-driven system of equalization transfers in 1994, the
Federal Fund for Assistance to the Regions (FFSR). This system was changed every year since
its introduction and it was practically abandoned in the formulation of the 1998 budget. All
parties involved, the Government, the regions and the Duma were dissatisfied with the
performance of the FFSR. The Government will be using a new but temporary formula for the
1999 budget. The Government has announced its intention of overhauling the system of transfers
for future years starting with the budget for 2000.
Much of the reform process over the past six years has focused on the fiscal relations
between the federal and regional govermments. Less attention has been given to intra-oblast
intergovernmental fiscal relation issues. The general budgetary principle has been that the
regional governments had the freedom to organize their system of intra-regional fiscal relations
in any way they saw fit. Although some regions have moved to reform their budgetary
relationships with local governments in a more stable and transparent fashion, the majority of the
regional governments are still using a budgetary approach based on negotiation and bargaining,
the benchmark that characterized the budget system prior to 1992. In 1997, the Law on the
Financial Foundations of Local Self-Governments mandated to the regions the introduction of
reforms such as minimum sharing rates for tax revenues with local governments and the use of
formula-based transfers. But these provisions contain only general principles and concrete
applications still await development. Most regional governments appear to have delayed the
introduction of formula-based transfers because of a lack of understanding on how to proceed.
Over the past several years the budgetary process and fiscal management at the federal
level have been subject to significant changes and improvements in the Russian Federation. A
modem budget classification system based on the IMF's Government Finance Statistics has been
37



introduced, a Treasury function for budget execution is near completion, and ex-post audit is
performed by the Chamber of Accounts.
However, budgeting and fiscal management at the sub-national level in the Russian
Federation, with some possible regional exceptions, has failed to keep pace with the reforms at
the federal level. The budget formulation process basically has not evolved from the previous
regime's practices, there is no modem treasury function for budget execution, ex-post audit is
spotty and there is no evaluation of budget policies. While the newly approved Budget Code
attempts to address some of these deficiencies at the sub-national level, it does not address in
sufficient detail the necessary reforms in financial management, accounting and reporting at the
regional and local level. There appears to be a consensus that a sub-national government budget
code will be necessary to deal appropriately with all outstanding issues.
In most subjects, intra-regional budgetary relations are still characterized by expenditure
assignments between the regional and local governments that lack clarity and stability. In
addition, the problem of unfunded expenditure mandates from the regional authorities to local
governments continues to be a source of friction and inefficiency in the use of scarce budgetary
funds. Finally, in most subjects revenue assignments still lack transparency and predictability,
thus detracting from the ability of local governments to plan ahead and destroying any incentives
local governments may have to mobilize their own revenues. Fundamental reform of intra-
subject intergovernmental fiscal relations faces the handicap of lack of incentive for regional
governments to reform. Regional governments tend to feel quite comfortable with the current
negotiated system because it provides them with discretion and flexibility.
An issue of significant importance is the exercise of fiscal responsibility by sub-national
governments in the area of borrowing. While the new Budget Code will restrict and impose
limits on the ability to issue bonds and use other forms of borrowing by sub-national
governments, and these should be further developed in a sub-national budget code, there is at
present no adequate reporting system and mechanism for enforcement of sub-national borrowing
limits by the federal authorities. Some time in the future this control may be exercised by the
capital markets themselves but at the present time direct control by the federal authorities is
necessary. Lack of enforcement of borrowing limits is likely to be destabilizing at the national
level, compromising macroeconomic stability.
It should be clearly understood that ex-ante controls by the Ministry of Finance or any
other federal authority of borrowing by sub-national governments will be unnecessarily
restrictive and bureaucratic. The limits on sub-national borrowing in the Budget Code are of a
regulatory ex-post nature, and they do not grant any powers to the Ministry of Finance to
approve ex-ante borrowing by sub-national governments. What still needs to be addressed is how
the federal authorities will ensure ex-post that sub-national governments do respect the
borrowing limits introduced in the Budget Code and what means or powers need to be granted to
the federal authorities. The development of adequate disclosure rules for the fiscal health of sub-
national govermments should contribute to the foundations for the creation, in the future, of a
self-policing system for sub-national borrowing within the capital markets themselves. This will
be the most effective and efficient way to impose fiscal discipline among sub-national
governments. The sub-national budget code will need to address loan default and bankruptcy
proceedings for sub-national governments.
38



There is one last aspect of the overall legal framework governing the system of
intergovernmental fiscal relations which requires attention. Over the past six years many laws
have been passed on budgeting and financial management, revenue sharing, transfers, and
assignment of functional responsibilities. In addition, there has been considerable variation in the
degree of enforcement of these laws. In some cases, the laws have not been much more than
proclamations with practically no implementation. As a consequence, inconsistencies and
contradictions among several of these laws are quite common. The most recent example is
provided by the contradictions between the Budget Code and the Law on the Financial
Foundations of Local Self-Government concerning the budgetary relationships between regional
and local governments. A systematic study of all current legislation on intergovernmental
relations pointing out inconsistencies and contradictions is needed to get rid of this significant
source of confusion in the system.
2. Objectives
This project component has the following objectives:
0 Assisting the Government with a systematic review of all current legislation on
intergovernmental fiscal relations with the goal of eliminating contradictions and
inconsistencies.
0 Assisting the Government in documenting and analyzing the current assignment of
expenditure responsibilities between the federal, regional, and local governments,
which would help the Government in the drafting of the Law on the Assignment of
Functional Responsibilities.
> Assisting the Government in development of legislation and regulation on revenue
sharing and tax responsibilities of regional and local authorities.
> Assisting the Government in the analysis of different options for reforming the current
system of transfers, which the Government would use as a basis for drafting of the
legislation on Intergovernmental Transfers.
>  Preparing recommendations for the Government on federal regulations for monitoring
the fiscal performance, budgeting, accounting and fiscal management at regional and
local level.
> Assisting the Government and participating regions in the design of model legislation
and recommendations on intra-regional fiscal relations, including prototype formula-
based equalization transfers, expenditure assignments between the regional and local
governments, in the design of stable and transparent revenue sharing between the
regional and local governments, and with training in the implementation of these new
systems.
39



3. Outputs and Indicators
A. Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
The consultants will be required to research, analyse, and report and recommend on all
aspects of intergovernmental fiscal relations, both at the federal/subject interface, and intra-
regionally. Inputs in this context will include a close understanding of the Concept Paper, a full
knowledge of the extensive Associated Project work, review of the material generated by the
regional diagnostic reviews in component 3, and further research as necessary.
Outputs will be required to cover:
•  the consistency and effectiveness of the legal framework for intergovernmental fiscal
relations in Russia;
*  the assignment of revenue streams and taxing rights, and of spending responsibilities,
and any required changes in legislation to achieve the recommendations;
* a mechanism for intergovernmental transfers that achieves Concept Paper goals;
model legislation and federal regulation for inter-governmental and intra-regional fiscal
relations.
Provisional outputs (for discussion with FMD) will be required within 6 months of
inception, to support particularly the development of Regional Reform Plans being generated by
Associated Projects, and the other part of this Component 1, dealing with strengthening and
rendering more consistentt the legal and regulatory framework generally.
Definitive outputs, providing firm conclusions on each of the required issues, will be
required on timetable to fit the completion of the Project, and all the dependent tasks within it,
before June 2004.
The principal indicators of success within this sub-component will be the extent to which
the provisional and definitive outputs on the designated topics are available in time to allow
other project components to move forward on schedule, and the extent to which the
recommendations are proved to be workable in practice, both in implementation of the regional
reform plans (component 3), and in the development of a consistent and accepted legal and
regulatory framework (the other sub-component of this component 1).
B. Legal and Regulatory Reform
This sub-component will cover all aspects of law and regulation governing Russian sub-
national public finance. The subject matter will include particularly the legal and regulatory
process and the instruments thereof, including laws, regulations, and extra-legal instruments
(such as the proposed Code of Good Practice). Consultants will be required to identify and
recommend steps for rectifying instances of contradiction, or gaps, in existing law and
regulation, and to address areas where the existing law and regulation is not effective in
promoting the government's objectives and policies, including deficiencies identified elsewhere
in this Project.
40



There will therefore be substantial inter-dependence between this sub-component and other
tasks addressing the content and objectives of law and regulation. These include the
intergovernmental fiscal relations work (the other part of this component 1), and the functional
reviews under component 3. There is substantial existing output from Associated Projects, that
will be available from the Inventory, both covering aspects of the objectives of law and
regulation, and identifying areas of deficiency or opportunity in the legal/regulatory structure.
The topics to be addressed in this sub-component, from such a legal/regulatory perspective,
include:
*  Constitutional and regulatory mandates, including boundaries and limitations to the
legal and regulatory process, and the basis and scope for incentive-backed "extra-legal"
instruments such as the code of Good Practice.
*  Definition of revenue rights and expenditure responsibilities (close ties to
intergovernmental sub-component)
*  All aspects of budget preparation and execution; provision for multi-year commitments
in capital budgets and debt service (close ties to relevant parts of component 3)
*  Accounting, disclosure, and the establishment of accountability (close ties to relevant
parts of component 3)
*  Debt, debt limitations, and bankruptcy procedures and remedies (close ties to relevant
parts of component 3)
Provisional outputs will be required within 6 months of inception, and themselves depend
significantly on input from the inter-governmental work under sub-component 1, and the
functional reviews from component 3, as well as study of the Associated Projects. The
provisional outputs will consist of identification of contradictions, gaps, and early-identified
requirements for reform. These will be required to inform the regional reform programmes, and
as a basis for the FMD to make recommendations via IMWG to the Russian government for
specific reforms.
Definitive outputs will be required on an agreed timetable that may vary between topics,
and be determined by the extent/quality of Associated Project material, and the needs for
progress elsewhere in the Project. These outputs will consist of conclusive recommendations on
each of the topics designated, to cover the direction, the manner, and the instrument of reform, to
achieve purposes agreed by Russian govermment after consideration of the Provisional outputs.
The principal indicators of success in this sub-component will be the extent to which the
provisional and definitive outputs on the designated topics are available in time to allow other
project components to move forward on schedule, and the extent to which the recommendations
are proved to be workable in practice, both in implementation of the regional reform plans
(component 3), and in the adoption by the Russian government of the recommended reforms.
41



PROJECT COMPONENT 2
STRENGTHENING OF FEDERAL MONITORING CAPACITY AND DEVELOPMENT OF
STANDARDS FOR REGIONAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1. Background
Among the weakest aspects of the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations in the
Russian Federation is the lack of mechanisms for monitoring by the federal authorities of fiscal
performance by regional and local governments. At the present time, regional governments are
under the obligation to report the execution of the consolidated regional budgets (regional
government budget plus the combined budgets of all local governments in the region). However,
this reporting is insufficient to provide the necessary information on compliance with federal
policies (such as cost recovery on public utilities), actual budgetary practices (such as the
existence and importance of extra-budgetary funds), or the level or extent of fiscal equalization
across local governments.
The limited and aggregated nature of financial reporting by regional and local governments
does not allow, at the present time, establishment of a clear picture of their fiscal health. Even
though regional governments report consolidated budget data to the Ministry of Finance, these
data reveal little information on the actual deficit position of sub-national governments on a
commitment or accrual basis. For most cases, the budget data provides insufficient information
to evaluate the size, change and age of existing budgetary arrears. The budget data available
provide no information either on the revenue costs to regional and local budgets of tax
preferences granted to enterprises, nor actual lending or loan guarantees by regional and local
governments to enterprises. Nor has there been little consistent infornation on the level of
borrowing, debt service requirements, and composition of debt for regional and local
governments. The transparency, and ultimately the validity, of sub-national budgets is also
compromised by the lack of disclosure and information on extra-budgetary accounts and the use
of non-cash payment methods.
The lack of quantitative information in regional and local reported budget accounts is
complicated by the lack of information and uniformity on budgetary procedures and accounting
systems. There is little information on the constraints that are placed on the use of extra-
budgetary accounts by agencies (and even by departments or divisions within administrations),
and what the existing reporting requirements and safety checks are. There appears also to be a
wide array of practices across regional and local governments in budget planning arrangements,
including revenue forecasting, current expenditures and capital investments. Very few regional
and local governments appear to have in place an appropriate treasury function with cash and
debt management and reporting of budget guarantees. A wide variety of approaches are used by
regional governments to fund local govermnents. Non-transparent arrangemnents including non-
repayable loans and mutual settlements appear to be quite common. In general, there is little
information about the degree of compliance by sub-national governments with federal norms
pertaining to the budget process and fiscal management and less information on actual
budgetary practices by sub-national governments in those areas where the law gives them
discretion.
42



2. Objectives
This project component has the following main objectives:
> To execute or commission research into fact and practice in local government finances
in Russia. Much of the factual product of this research will be in the public domain,
serving as a "library" of information on Russian regional finance. However, some
analytical conclusions may be closely held within government.
> To advise the Government, IMWG and the Ministry of Finance on improving all
aspects of the legal and regulatory framework for regional govermment finances in
Russia. This will include all aspects of budgeting, accounting and the preparation of
financial reports for electors/taxpayers, central government, management, suppliers and
creditors; intergovernmental fiscal relations both Federation/Subject, and Subject/City-
Rayon including inter alia tax and expenditure assignments and inter- and intra-
governmental fiscal transfers; and the setting of standards for financial management
generally in regional governments. FMD will both advise the IMWG on the desired
content and structure of legislation/regulation, and assist in coordinating the drafting
and promulgation in a timely and consistent manner.
> To provide ongoing monitoring and supervision of all aspects of Russian regional
finance within the revised regulatory framework on the basis of the data collected
through its research. FMD will make regular recommendations to the Government,
IMWG and the Ministry of Finance on a wide variety of questions related to the fiscal
reform in the regions.
3. Outputs and indicators
A. Standard Monitoring System
The Standard Monitoring System will respond to the Federal Government's need to maintain an
up-to-date understanding of the fiscal and financial condition, and the state of compliance with
federal legislation and regulations, of each of the 89 Subjects of the Russian Federation.
Standard monitoring is envisaged as a computer based system, operating primarily on the
basis of objective, numerate, non-judgmental inputs fed through a structure that so far as possible
builds upon or adapts existing data sources, rather than creating entirely new structures.
The main tasks within this sub-component will be to:
Specify the indicators that should be tracked to achieve the purposes of Standard
Monitoring; these are likely to include compliance with all the main provisions of
Russian sub-national public finance law and regulation, including particularly the
setting and execution of budgets within legal constraints, the level of debt, the level and
dynamic of deficits, and the manner (cash or offsets) of budget execution.
43



• Identify sources and flows of data that can be used for this purpose; and specify the
deficiencies in form, content, accuracy or verification status of this data, and what
needs to be done to make it available in acceptable form.
• To specify and design the mechanisms for collecting and presenting this data routinely,
in as near as practicable to real-time, including the computer and communication
systems required.
* To specify the personnel and systems resources required to install this mechanism, and
to assist the FMD in its implementation, including systems design, recruitment and
training.
Associated projects and preliminary work suggest that substantial data resources and flows
already exist, but that they are badly co-ordinated, and not used systematically to address issues
relevant to the needs of Standard monitoring; moreover, current legal and regulatory structures
have meant that the information is often not in form and content as useful as would be desirable.
The development of monitoring needs will therefore require substantial dialogue with the
development of accounting and reporting needs and with the development of legal and regulatory
structures. This dialogue forms part of the provisional output of each of the activities
participating in it.
Provisional Outputs: specification of the form and content of input data required (to enable
the reform plans of participating regions to incorporate these regions as "pilots" for the
monitoring process), and discussion with the relevant functional experts of any changes to the
accounting and disclosure requirements desirable to improve the disclosure and accuracy of key
variables.
Definitive Outputs: specification, implementation and delivery to FMD, of a working
system to achieve the goals of Standard Monitoring.
Principal Indicators of success at the provisional stage will be the recognition of
monitoring needs into the main functional reviews (particularly accounting, debt, and treasury);
the inclusion of monitoring info-source requirements in the specifications for regulatory change;
and the inclusion of Standard Monitoring data provision in the reforrn plans for the participating
regions as "pilots".
B. Extended and Special Monitoring System & Ratings
Extended Monitoring is intended to provide the mechanism by which the Federal
Government can develop a closer understanding of financial and economic circumstances, and
the degree of reform attainment, in regions which are participating in the current Project, or
which are seeking conditional credits or other discretionary benefits from the federal
government. Such regions will also be required to participate in Standard Monitoring - the
Extended requirements are incremental, not substitutes.
44



To the extent that such discretionary benefits are available as an inducement for desired
reforms, when penalty sanctions may not be available for constitutional reasons, Extended
Monitoring will provide the main tool for determining where such discretion should be granted,
and hence be a substantive instrument of policy. Extended monitoring may also serve a
secondary purpose, in helping with the analysis of the effects of other grants and policy actions
undertaken e.g. in response to the intergovernmental fiscal analysis.
This sub-component addresses both the specification of the Extended Monitoring
standards, and the design and construction of mechanisms for tracking attainrments against those
standards. As with Standard Monitoring, this will include:
* Specifying the indicators to be monitored.
* Specifying the data and information sources required to monitor them, and identifying
any enhancements required to render current sources of such data effective for this
purpose.
* Specifying and designing the mechanisms for collecting and analysing this data,
including the computer and communication systems required, and the extent of local
representation.
* Specifying the personnel and systems resources required to implement the
recommendations, and assisting FMD in the introduction of an effective Extended
monitoring capacity within the Project's timetable.
The Extended Monitoring standards themselves are likely to be closely related to the
standards specified in the Code of Good Practice, but may also contain a number of other
quantitative (creditworthiness) or qualitative (governance) indicators designed to provide a close
understanding of compliance, and of commitment and attainment in the implementation of
reforms. The standards involved will be graduated and progressive to provide a measure
attainment, and provide a basis for incentives, across a wide range of levels of attainment.
Tlhe evaluation based on these criteria is then likely to be used as a basis for an internal
"rating" of sub-national governments, as well for specific discretionary credit decisions.
Substantial components of the Extended Monitoring requirements are likely to be available
from the provisional output of sub-component 3, from Associated project material, and from the
IBRD's loan conditionalities. Equally, the provisional conclusions from this sub-component as to
what will be suitable components of Good Practice will be required as provisional input to the
regional reform plans and the development of the extra-legal framework in Component 1. Given
its extra-legal character, it is desirable that the Good Practice Code is the subject of extensive
consultation and explanation with the regions to which it will apply, and that so far as possible its
contents are accepted by and agreed with them. This work will interlock closely with the FMD's
overall co-ordinating role in the Project.
45



Provisional outputs will therefore consist of contribution to the specification of the
standards of Good Practice, and the data flows, analytical resources, and all other faculties
necessary for the continuing appraisal of reform implementation in the six initial participating
regions, and the definition of the resources required to deliver this appraisal on a continuing
basis, for an increasing number of regions.
Definitive Outputs Implementation of the appraisal structure, and its successful operation to
produce a means to monitor progress of the participating regions. Installation of the graduated
rating process, and its application to a widening cadre of regions. Publication of the Code of
Good Practice, and its development after debate into an accepted standard for reform oriented
regions to aspire to.
The principal indicators of success in this sub-component will be the extent to which the
provisional and definitive outputs on the designated topics are available in time to allow other
project components to move forward on schedule. The extent to which the Code of Good
Practice is really accepted by the participating regions - and by other investors, thereby
deepening the incentive for its adoption by other regions - will be important, as will be the
extent to which it provides a continuum of incentive across a range of attainments, rather than a
single-standard hurdle.
C. Fiscal Statistical Database
The FMD, in its co-ordinating role for regional finance generally, will operate a central
information resource non behalf of regions and all other interested parties. Much of this
information will be in the public domain; but some aspects of it may be designated as restricted
to certain categories of user, or for internal use only.
The topics to be covered by this information resource should be available in paper or electronic
form, and should be accessible through a website to be created for the purpose.
The topics will include:
* Regional Budget statistics, developed from the Standard Monitoring data flow.
• Additional budget and economic statistics, developed from other data sources, to provide
greater transparency for comparison between regions, and as a basis for external
investment decisions and government policy research.
* Definitive statements of Good Practice standards and the proposed public finance
detailed application manual and background material on their introduction in practice
(where, how, what tools).
* An Inventory of donor funded and other work in Russia (including training materials),
that can serve both as a theoretical basis and as a practical "toolkit" for the
implementation of public finance reforms in the directions required.
The contents of this library will almost all be the product of other sub-components of this
Project, and hence dependent on that other work; the task of this sub-component will be the
assembly and presentation of this material. Conversely, the product of this resource will be an
46



important ingredient for the wider take-up of the reforms promoted by this Project. It is
particularly important that it is presented and publicised in such a way as to be seen by regions as
a resource useful to them, rather than an imposition on them.
The tasks of this sub-component will be the detailed identification of content; the
identification of sources; the specification of the necessary communication and computer
facilities to collect, store and present the data; the specification of premises, personnel and other
logistical resources required; and the implementation of these objectives within the life of the
Project.
The Provisional outputs of this sub-component will include participation in the
specification of the data content and format required for monitoring, and in the identification and
dissemination of suitable Associated Project material to allow other components to make rapid
progress towards their respective tasks.
The Definitive outputs will be the installation and operation of a mechanism for the
collection storage and delivery of the specified data categories.
The Indicators of success will include both the mechanical accomplishment of the required
outputs, to a timescale that facilitates the completion of other project components on time, and
also the acceptance of the resource by regions, investors, other parts of government, and third
parties, as a definitive resource and a helpful contribution towards their own goals.
47






PROJECT COMPONENT 3
ASSISTANCE TO SUBNATIONAL GOVERNMENTS IN ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETING
1. Background
Current Russian budget rules and accounting conventions are clearly at odds with the
western "Best Practice" standards: rigid use of a cash (rather than accrual) convention; lack of
balance sheets or reliable asset/liability ledgers; inconsistent consolidation of sub-districts and of
extra-budgetary funds; lack of proper distinction between operating and capital/financing items
are among a few examples of major shortcomings. This has clouded management and public
understanding of many real issues resulting in a non-transparent setting of budgets and financial
reports by regional governments.
Among many problems are already identified:
> The use of a "cash" convention which recognizes transactions only when settled in
cash. This has led to a systematic build-up of unsettled accounts payable (not
recognized as an expense until paid - hence a budget outcome may be "balanced"
simply by not settling the bills; and an apparently balanced budget set on the basis of
not expecting to settle the bills);
> Unclear and inconsistent consolidation rules which have confused the estimation both
of flows of revenues and expenses, and of aggregate liabilities of budget entities;
> Lack of reliable asset and liability records and of a balance sheet, which have prevented
the normal verification of flow entries through double-entry cross checks;
> Absence of accrual conventions which has left some confusion over the true cost for
example of zero coupon or foreign currency debt, or the consumption of Capital assets;
and hence an inability to know the true cost of services delivered.
Budget formation and implementation has therefore been taking place against a background
of falling revenue, rising social need, and uncertainty. Major responses have included cutbacks to
near zero in infrastructure investment; a general decline in the level and standards of many
services (apparently often with limited capacity to measure the effectiveness or efficiency of
services that are provided), in deliberate delays in settlement of many purchase invoices for
goods and services; and in an increasing tendency to borrow.
In parallel with this component, a series of regional diagnostic reviews and reform plans is
being undertaken in the six participating regions (also funded by IBRD loan finance). Ongoing
close dialogue is essential between the consultants undertaking these studies, and the consultants
working on this component: recommendations on budget and accounting reform must both
respond to the findings of the diagnostic reviews (and a number of other Associated Projects
with the same goals in other places), and provide direct guidance back to the reform plans.
48



2. Objectives
This component has the following objectives:
A. To establish what is the current legal and regulatory environment covering regional and
local budget formation and execution, fiscal management, accounting conventions,
financial reporting requirements and standards for financial information.
B. To develop recommendations both on the proper objectives and the available means
(both legal and extra-legal) of obtaining enhanced financial management and accounting
structures.
C. To assist with the installation in participating regions of mechanisms to deliver the
required level of budget management, public sector restructuring, accounting and financial
reporting.
The end product is intended to be a mechanism for the formation, agreement,
implementation, control, and reporting on budgets, that is both more effective in extracting
service from limited resources, and more responsive to the needs of the relevant stakeholders.
The relevant stakeholders for this purpose mean first and foremost the electors and
taxpayers of the region, acting where appropriate through their elected representatives; central
government in its role as a counterpart to fiscal transfers and taxation flows, and as an alternative
supplier of services in some instances; and employees, suppliers and creditors who may have a
legitimate right to understand to understand the working of a budget on which they are
depending for payment of their wages, for their goods and services, or for credit granted.
3. Outputs and indicators
A. Financial Planning, Treasury, & Cash Management
This sub-component addresses each of the functional tasks A B C above, for the captioned
activities. Of particular interest will be:
Financial Planning: Use of integrated multi-year plan process for budget formation; for
explanation/debate vis-a-vis legislators, taxpayers, etc; Revenue forecasting; future debt
service capacity (and use in current borrowing decisions - close link to debt tasks);
sensitivity analysis (start of risk management) and scenario planning; use to manage
expectations towards realism, setting attainable budgets.
Treasury: Mechanism for controlling commitments and cash movements in budget
execution; role in revenue collection; links between federal (local branch) and sub-national
treasury operations; use of software; tie-in to accounting and reporting process (generation
of primary accounting data - close link to accounting tasks); tie in to process of
creation/management of arrears and accounts payable; tie-in to process of cash and risk
management.
49



Cash Management: Rules and procedures for the management of cash and liquid financial
resources; investment in financial instruments; efficient use of cash, transmission, bank
credit risk issues; control of bank accounts.
B. Budgetary Accounting, Reporting & Audit
Budget: Rules and procedures for the form of budgets, and the procedures for establishing;
federal laws, local laws; relationships between layers ; definition of the "boundaries" of
budget/off-budget funds, budgetary undertakings, relationship between an administration
and its constituent departments; relationship between an administration and its downstream
administrations located within its boundaries (cities, rayons).
Specification of mnain relationships between budget quantities: current vs. capital/finance
budgets; balanced budgets, deficits, how deficits to be covered; accounting conventions to
be applied.
In all cases, with reference to recently introduced budget code and budget classification
laws/regulations, and with the objective of retaining as much as possible of these new
laws/regulations as is consistent with the aspirations of Good Practice.
This task may result in proposals for a separate sub-national budget code and budget
classification.
Accounting: Formal accounting vs. management information; accounting conventions (cash
vs. accrual), chart of accounts; process for generating primary accounting data (links to
Treasury); balance sheet, scope for reconcilement of flows to changes in balance of e.g.
accounts payable, financial resources; rules regarding inclusion/exclusion of revenue,
expense items, assets, liabilities in the accounts; consolidated vs. entity-only accounts; role
of accounting and management information in providing cost information for service
management; basis of accountability of management.
Reporting: The extent to which information is made available to legitimately interested
consumers; transparency; specification of frequency, content; accessibility to consumers.
Audit and Control: Independent verification of compliance with federal/local laws and
regulations on budget and accounting information; separation of capacities; review of
controls, procedures; verification of entries and quantities; reporting lines of the audit
process.
C. Expenditure & Public Sector Restructuring
In close conjunction with the sectoral reviews (components 4), examine/recommend on the
means and effectiveness of specifying and delivering services from budget resources. To include
the means of allocating budget resources, the means of measuring cost and success in delivering
service, and of reallocating resources towards greatest needs. Level of cost recovery, subsidy;
scope for reduced subsidy. Transparency of the process; consideration of capital resources as
well as current; potential for engagement of private capital, private management, or market
resource allocation techniques; impact of such actions on social needs indicators. Contribution to
50



regional reform plans should include sectoral restructuring for at least two regions on each
sector, and at least three sectors for each region.
D. Debt management
Systematic identification of all obligations for which budget is liable; centralised oversight;
monitoring of debt capacity (serviced from current revenues, vs. refinancing or asset sales);
purposes for which debt incurred - investment, current spending, refinancing, etc; remedies,
bankruptcy procedures; relationship to financial planning (future debt service capacity), and to
capital budgeting; obligations created on behalf of third parties (guarantees, etc); use of debt to
engage in "commercial" activities; debt serviced by non-cash means - in-kind, or by tax offsets;
debt limitations - volume/revenue flow, vs. service cost/revenue flow; creation of a debt
register (as ingredient of creating enforceable claim), to help police compliance with limitations;
risks and risk management capacity.
E. Regional Budget Procurement System
Procedures governing commitment of budget resources; current supply, capital
investments; federal laws, local laws; separation of powers; procedures for follow-through to
ensure value received - immediate, subsequent follow up; stipulation, maintenance of adequate
records of responsibility for procurement decisions.
This topic also includes the capital investment process in the form of
selection/procurement of capital assets - what process to establish capacity to finance, identify
and follow overall priorities, select investments on objective criteria, procure in disciplined way,
implement and follow outcome in short and medium term, with feedback to policies and criteria.
Relationship between debt and investment process; procedures for off-budget procurement where
possible.
F. Regional Fiscal Management Guidelines, Best Practice Standards, Local Public Finance
Manual
This task is essentially the drawing together of the specific functional analysis and
recommendations of the components 3 and 4 into a coherent set of recommendations both for
targets for broad standards (the Code of Good Practice), and detailed implementation (the
drafting of a Manual of Public Finance). Both tasks will have an iterative element, in ensuring
that the proposals are internally consistent between different project sub-components, that they
are consistent with federal government objectives (by closed liaison with FMD), and that they
are realistically attainable within the timeframe specified.
The provisional recommendations necessary to allow this activity to get started are
themselves likely to be based substantially on provisional outputs from component 3, and on the
Associated Projects. As the Project progresses, these provisional outputs will mature into more
definitive outputs based on the refined inputs.
This task will therefore be continuously involved in the assembly and distribution of
progressively maturing provisional output, and in two way feedback with the FMD, those
involved in the tasks in this component 3, and other components of the Project. The creation of
51



consistency between the constituents of Good Practice and the Extended Monitoring
requirements; the correspondence between the separate functional recommendations and the
recommendations for legal reform; and the integration of sectoral reform recommendations into
the regional reform programs, will be specific tasks. The collection of the constituent
recommendations for Good Practice, and the corresponding detail in the Public Finance manual,
will be a task of this sub-component.
For each of these sub-components, provisional outputs will include a substantial
contribution to the iterative process of developing the enhanced legal and regulatory
environment, and the reform plans for the regions. The definitive outputs will be the eventual
specification of the relevant components of Good Practice (in partnership with other
contributors), the preparation of the relevant sections of the detailed Public Finance Manual, and
the provision of tools and practical implementation techniques to assist in the attainment of the
standards specified.
The Indicators of success on each of these sub-components will be the extent to which the
analysis identifies real issues, and the consequent recommendations respond with proposals that
successfully address these issues in a way that is attainable within practical resource constraints.
An understanding by the regions of the reasons for and benefits of the recommendations will be
essential. Progress on the regional reform programmes, the creation of the creation of an agreed
Code of Good Practice, and the completion of the legal/regulatory reform process, will all be
indicators of whether these goals have been achieved.
52






PROJECT COMPONENT 4
SECTORAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURES REVIEWS
These reviews will take the form of a series of studies, one for each sector to be examined,
to assist regional and local governments in the design of rationalisation strategies for the sector
concerned, by costing alternative scenarios, and explaining strategy options for adjustments to
the levels of service capacity -and unit cost.
The reviews will incorporate analysis of the mechanisms for allocating both operating and
investment budget resources between services, and between facilities for each service; for
determining unit costs both ex ante (plan and resource decision) and expost(outcome and
analysis of effectiveness); measures for enhancing procurement effectiveness, and increasing
budget accountability; benchmarks and comparative performance indices for comparable
facilities, both within one region, and between regions.
The reviews must be based on reality, as discovered in the participating regions to be
studied, and not some remote ideal drawn from a different environment. The reviews must be
conducted in tandem with the diagnostic reviews on regional finance, and each of the 9 sectoral
reviews should study at least two of the 6 participating regions in detail; each of the 6
participating regions should be the subject of at least 3 such reviews.
The reviews should incorporate wherever possible as provisional inputs the output from
Associated Projects, and the work of the regional diagnostic studies as it relates to financial
management. As the Project progresses, there will be increasing output of management tools
from other parts of the Project, that can be incorporated into the sectoral reforms.
Each of the reviews should then provide as an output the sectoral reform part of the
regional reform plan for the respective regions.
These sectoral reform plans will include recommendations as to:
* Alternatives to the "normative" method of defining required service levels
* Methods of defining unit cost in the service provision, and of constructing models to
estimate the sensitivity of unit cost to a variety of scenarios on service volume and cost
recovery
* Suggestions on alternative scenarios for reform of both service specification and service
delivery, and the costs and other implications of each
* Estimation of the social and poverty-relief consequences of each of the scenarios
proposed, including the indirect consequences through release or engagement of
resources otherwise required for other services.
* Implementation requirements for each, including specification of the required tools, and
guidance on where/how to gain access to the requisite expertise and techniques.
53



* Investment implications - how to cost, prioritise and finance; where possible, suggest
mechanisms to provide for the engagement of private capital and other non-budget
resources, such as can facilitate sustained service delivery from increasingly scarce
budget fumding capacity.
These sectoral reviews will therefore generate provisional output in the formn of their
contribution to the draft regional reform plans, and to the expenditure management component of
the functional reviews.
Progressive implementation of the regional reformn plans, and the development of the
functional reviews, will allow these provisional recommendations to firm up into definitive
output recommendations during the life of the Project.
The indicators of success in these sectoral reviews will be the extent to which they can
generate specific action plans that are accepted into the regional reform plans; and the extent to
which the action plans prove to be feasible in practice.
The sectors to be covered by such reviews are;
Housing, utilities:
Education
Health
Social Protection
Culture & recreation
Public Transportation
Industry, Construction & Agriculture
Law enforcement
Regional/local governance.
54



ANNEX 4
SUPERVISION PLAN
55






SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate          Activity                 Staffing Requirements             Staff Weeks
Dates
January 2000      Project Launch:     Task Team Leader
Review conditions    Economist (Resident Mission)                 1 (field)
of effectiveness
April 2000        Supervision Mission  Operational Analyst/Procurement Specialist      1
Fiscal Finance Specialist                        1
Training Specialist                              1
July 2000         Supervision Mission  Task Team Leader                                1
Economist                                     1 (field)
October 2000      Supervision Mission  Operational Analyst/Procurement Specialist       I
Fiscal Finance Specialist                        1
Training Specialist                              1
Economist (Resident Mission)                  I (field)
_____________    Financial Management Specialist           2
March 2001        Supervision Mission  Task Team Leader                                1
Economist                                     1 (field)
September 2001    Supervision Mission  Operational Analyst/Procurement Specialist      1
Fiscal Finance Specialist                        1
Training Specialist                              1
Economist (Resident Mission)                  I (field)
Financial Management Specialist                  2
March 2002        Supervision Mission  Task Team Leader                                 I
Economist                                     1 (field)
September 2002   Supervision Mission  Operational Analyst/Procurement Specialist       I
Fiscal Finance Specialist                        1
Training Specialist                              1
Economist (Resident Mission)                  1 (field)
March 2003        Supervision Mission  Task Team Leader                                 1
Economist                                     1 (field)
September 2003    Supervision Mission  Operational Analyst/Procurement Specialist      1
Fiscal Finance Specialist                        1
Training Specialist                              I
Economist (Resident Mission)                  1 (field)
Financial Management Specialist                  2
March 2004        Supervision Mission  Task Team Leader                                 1
Economist                                     I (field)
September 2004    Supervision         Task Team Leader                                 1
Mission: Review     Fiscal Finance Specialist                         1
overall Project     Training Specialist                              1
progress            Economist (Resident Mission)                   1 (field)
Financial Management Specialist                  2
Note: Supervision plan for Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project is prepared based on average costs of supervision for
ECSPE projects for the Russian Federation for FY99.
56






ANNEX 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
57






PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
PARTA. Strengthening of Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation
1. Legal Review
1.01 Inter-govemmental fiscal relations, regional budgeting and  MinFin, FER       Nov-00         Jun-04
debt                                                                                     0
1.02 Regional Development Fund                              MinFin, FER              Jul-00      Apr-02
PARTB. Strengthening of Federal Monitoring Capacity
2. Developing and Specifying the Regulatory standards for Monitoring Regional Finance
2.01 Development of "standard" monitoring system            MinFin, FER             Oct-01        Jun-04
2.02 Development of "extended" and "special" monitoring     MinFin, FER             Dec-00        Jun-04
systems
2.03 Development of fiscal statistical database             MinFin, FER             Nov-00        Apr-03
PART C. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting
3. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting
3.01 Financial planning, treasury and cash management       MinFin, FER            Dec-00         Sep-03
3.02 Budgetary accounting, reporting and audits             MinFin, FER            Dec-00         Sep-03
3.03 Expenditure and public sector restructuring            MinFin, FER             Jul-01        Feb-04
3.04 Development of debt management system                  MinFin, FER             Jul-01        Feb-04
3.05 Development of regional budget procurement system      MinFin, FER            May-01         Feb-04
3.06 Development of regional fiscal management guidelines   MinFin, FER             Jul-02       Aug-04
and best practice standards; development of regional and local
public finance manual
PARTD. Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews
4. Diagnostic Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews
4.01 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Housing and    MinFin, FER            May-00         Oct-00
Utilities
4.02 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Education      MinFin, FER            May-00         Oct-0o
4.03 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Health         MinFin, FER            May-00         Oct-00
4.04 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Social Protection  MinFin, FER         Apr-01        Oct-01
Programs
4.05 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Culture and   MinFin,. FER             Apr-01        Oct-01
Recreation
4.06 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Public         MinFin, FER             Apr-01        Oct-01
Transportation
4.07 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Industry,      MinFin, FER            May-01         Oct-01
Construction and Agriculture
4.08 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Law            MinFin, FER            May-01         Oct-01
Enforcement
4.05 Detailed Public Expenditure Reviews for Regional/Local  MinFin, FER           May-01         Oct-01
Governance
58



* All Individual Consultants will be procured in strict accordance with the Bank's Guidelines "Procurement and
Selection of Consultants", with the added measure that each of the assignments will be advertised in both local and
international journals to elicit the greatest response possible. From the expressions of interest received the Selection
Committee will draw up a short list of no less than three candidates, and select from that list the most qualified
individual. These added measures will ensure the greatest degree of transparency and fairness in the procurement
process.
59



ANNEX 6
REPORT ON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
60






Report
on the
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements*
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report
(PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based
Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS-OPR)
Andrew Mackie (LOAEL), November 20, 1999
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The
objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system
adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project
Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines
issued by the Bank.
61



I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Senior Procurement Specialist
Karl Skansing (ECC 10), November 20, 1999
Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including
its monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system cannot provide the
appropriate data on physical progress (PMR - Section 2) required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall
assessment of the project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based
disbursements.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader
Eugene Gurenko (ECSIN), November 20, 1999
Part IV: LOA Reasonableness Review
I have conducted a reasonableness review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing
the project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based
Disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOAJDO
Andrew Mackie (LOAEL), November 20, 1999
* Signed original in project files.
62



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY ASSESSMENT
PART I - FOUNDATION FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
1.   Summary and Key Findings
FER is a well organized PIU with a clearly defined organizational structure and qualified
staff Over the next twelve to eighteen months it is proposed that it will become project
implementation unit for three- new IBRD loans with minimal increases in staffing with its core
finance functions. This is an ambitious aim which will only be achieved ifprocesses and
information technology are integrated and automated. In the case of the Migration and Forestry
Projects it faces significant capacity building issues within regional project implementation
groups. These are issues which are currently being addressed by FER management, but the Bank
must also be alert to these accountability issues in project preparation.
The Bank needs to adapt to the challenges posed by multi-project PIU's by providing greater
focus particularly in the monitoring of operational budgets andfinancial management systems
and reporting.
2.   General
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER)
is a non-commercial, non-profit foundation founded in July 1996. At the moment the founders
are Ministry of Finance (MinFin), Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Regional Policy, Central
Bank of Russia, Ministry of Transport, Leontief Center and Foundation of Housing Reform,
Gosstroy. FER is implementing agency for MinFin on three on-going Bank projects; Financial
Institution Development, Enterprise Support, Enterprise Housing Divestiture and preparation of
Migration Project out of PDL preparation fund.
It is proposed that FER will also act as implementation agent for Sustainable Forestry Pilot
project, Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance project and Northern Out-Migration Pilot project.
2.1. Governance Structure.
Governance over the FER's activities is through the Board of Directors; a supervisory body
consisting of twelve members headed by two Co-Chairpersons (First Deputy Minister of
Economy and Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia) with support of Executive
Secretary of the Board. Board meetings are conducted annually or more frequently as required.
Minutes are kept for all meetings. The main functions of the Board are to approve:
* changes to the Charter
* major restructuring of activities
* the annual budget
* changes to the organizational structure and staffing (salaries)
* the annual report of FER including audited financial statements
* the structure and composition of Project Management Committees (PMC's)
63



The implementation of individual projects is governed by- the PMCs which are appointed by
the Board of Directors. This has around ten members representative of all key stakeholders.
Committees meet regularly with frequency dependent on project activity. The functions of the
Committees are to:
*  define project objectives and activities
*  approve project activities budgets and work plans
*  resolve project implementation issues
*  define sources of project finance
*  approve project participating entities, sub-borrowers etc.
*  form contract evaluation committees
*  approve Project Directors
The Project Director reports regularly to the PMCs on project implementation.
2.2. Regulations and Procedures.
The activities of FER are regulated by national laws and Bank rules and procedures. The
Operational manual of the FER provides clear definitions and instructions on the FER
organizational structure, functions of its management bodies, responsibilities of FER
departments, job descriptions of staff, employment policy, budgeting and accounting procedures.
Project implementation is separately addressing project description, project management system,
financial procedures, implementation arrangements, reporting requirements and procurement
procedures.
2.3.Organizational Structure and Staffing.
FER's management team is led by the Director General, supported by two Deputy Director
Generals. FER's functional organization is divided into four budgetary groups:- general services
and three project groups. General services consist of the following departments: management,
secretariat, contract, finance and accounting. FER performs implementing functions for three on-
going projects (FIDP, ESP and EHDP). The general services are responsible for procurement,
disbursement, financial management and contract management. Costs of the general services
departments are allocated to operating costs categories of all projects in proportion reviewed and
agreed by the PMC and approved by the Board.
This requires no overall approval by the Bank although project operating budgets are agreed
in advance by task team leaders. Project groups activities are staff which can be budgeted to
project specific issues.
The Contract management department handles all issues of procurement, contract monitoring
and legal support. Staff of the Department consist of the following: Manager of the Procurement
Department/Senior Legal Counsel, Senior Procurement Officer, Procurement Specialist/legal
counsel and assistant. The manager of the Department reports to Deputy Director.
64



The Finance department is headed by Director of Finance supported by three staff; a
disbursement specialist and junior disbursement specialist and a specialist on sub-loan
management. The Director of Finance department reports to the Deputy Director General.
Included within the responsibilities of the Finance Department are the preparation of project
financial management reports in conformity with Bank requirements and monthly reporting to
the Ministry of Finance.
The Accounting department is headed by Chief Accountant who supported by two permanent
staff accountants and one full time consultant. The Chief Accountant reports directly to the
Director General. The Accounting Department has responsibility for the production of entity
financial statements compliant with Russian legislation and International Accounting Standards
as well as compliance with tax legislation.
Staffing policies are addressed in the Operating manual. The recruitment process is
transparent and staff turnover is low due to pleasant working environment and good
compensation scheme. Staff compensation packages include salary and medical insurance. Staff
performance reviews are performed annually. FER's Operating manual includes the provisions
on compliance with "Norms of conduct and business ethics of the FER" for each employee.
Training opportunities exist for all levels of staff and are encouraged by management.
Special training on accounting and financial management is financed by the FER. (The Chief
accountant studies under ACCA program and Finance Director studies under MBA program).
3. Project Accounting Systems and Procedures
3.1. Accounting Systems and Reporting Requirements.
Current financial reporting is divided onto FER entity reporting which is handled by the
accounting department and project financial reporting which is conducted by the Finance
Departrnent. The financial reporting system needs to be capable of producing several different
types of reports, including:
* Annual project management reports in accordance with Bank requirements
*  Quarterly Project Management Reports in conformity with Bank requirements
*  Annual FER financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS (maybe transformed from
Russian financial statements at the year end)
*  Annual FER financial statements prepared in accordance with Russian Legislation
*  Reports prepared at request of International Finance Organization Department of the
Ministry of Finance and Project Finance Center
Entity accounting is performed on Inotech accounting software package used by
approximately fifteen other World Bank projects in the Russia portfolio. Project financial
reporting is prepared from withdrawal applications and summarized on an Excel Spreadsheet. In
1998 the Bank required Foundation accounts prepared under International Accounting Standards
(IAS) for the first time. At the time of preparing this assessment these financial statements were
still outstanding.
65



There is a lack of interface between project and entity financial statements; a significant
issue that exists across the Bank's entire Russia portfolio. As project financial statements are not
part of the double entry book-keeping system key internal controls such a overall cash
reconciliation are not built into the system. These can be addressed by other sub-optimal internal
controls, external audit reviews and Bank supervision but the medium term solution is to more
fully integrate the two systems. The program for the integration of the two systems is planned to
be completed by December 31, 2000 at the latest. The precise details and extent of the
integration will be reviewed as part of the consultancy contract mentioned below.
In accordance with Bank's requirements FER has to prepare entity's financial statements
annually in accordance with IAS and Project Management Reports (PMR) quarterly.
Management of FER recognize the importance of linking PMR's to technical analysis of Project
Managers and this is being given particular attention in the preparation of the new projects.
In order to meet Bank's requirements the computerized accounting system of FER need to
be strengthened to provide higher level of automatization and internal control. FER is currently
addressing this issue through a consultancy contract with the following terms of reference:
*  carry out a diagnostic on the status of bookkeeping in the Foundation in accordance with
Russian accounting standards and IAS
•  develop a procedure to maintain business accounting in FER using available software
according to two standards simultaneously
• preparation of operational charts of accounts corresponding to local and international
standards
As well as the above the consultant will prepare recommendations and deliver training. The
success of this initiative is extremely important in the overall success of the overall operational
strategy of FER whose aim is to achieve significant efficiency gains in the face of a growth in
activity projected in the next twelve to eighteen months.
In addition to support of the consultant, the Bank agreed to review the overall format of
FER's entity financial reports and the project financial management reports. It is particularly
important to Bank supervision that there is a transparent link between entity budgeted and actual
operational costs and individual project component costs.
3.2. Budget preparation and execution
Budgets are prepared for all FER's activities including annual operating budgets. The
Board of Directors is responsible for approving annual budgets and ratifies any changes. The
Project planning process in performed under guidance of Project Implementation Committees. In
accordance with Bank's requirements actual data on project implementation is compared with
the budgets on regular basis. An issue for the Bank is how operational expense budgets within
the Foundation are calculated and apportioned to individual projects. The overall annual
operating budget of FER will be submitted to the Bank's Country Unit for no-objection one
month prior to submission to the Board of Directors. The Bank's Country Unit will also review
compliance through ex-post monitoring of the financial reports of the Foundation and projects.
66



3.3. Internal Control Procedures
Internal Control Procedures of the FER are documented in Operational manual, and control
procedures are also extensively defined under Russian legislation. FER management completed
an Internal Control Questionnaire of the Bank. Procedures cover the following main areas of the
project implementation: budget preparation and execution, contract preparation and signing
(procurement procedures), disbursement, assets management, etc. As noted above additional
procedures are needed in order to ensure the appropriate control over the allocation of general
services department costs to project operating cost categories. These will be incorporated into
the Operating Manual and are subject to the Bank's prior approval.
The management of all projects will be through one ruble project account in which
counterpart funds and ruble denominated transaction from individual projects Special Accounts
are held. If this approach is to be adopted it must be within an environment of sound integrated
chart of account and internal control surrounding the reconciliation of the project account. This
should be explicitly addressed in the terms of reference of the consultant engaged in the
integration of accounting and financial systems. The Bank assessment team has addressed these
concerns to the Foundation and if it were not for strength of the management and fmance team
we would reject the approach in favor of separate ring fenced project account. Nevertheless we
support the efforts being made in terms of the efficient project management and trust that, if
there optimum system solutions can not be achieved then they will explore alternative and
possibly more expensive options requiring additional finance staff.
3.4 Audit Arrangements.
In accordance with Bank's requirements, audit of the project will be performed annually in
accordance with Standards acceptable to the Bank. Russian auditing company FBK audits each
year all projects implemented by FER and Foundation as an entity. In order to ensure a
consistent approach to the financial management within the PIU we-recommend that the
principle of a single auditor for all projects within FER be continued.
4. Conclusion
FER proposes to implement the new projects with minimal growth in central support
functions of finance and disbursement. This is to be achieved in part by the impending closure of
existing projects. The plan is ambitious and is dependent on significant efficiency and
rationalization of system software and internal control procedures. It also carries a significant
risk in project implementation as FER tenders for projects with MinFin with limited room for re-
negotiation during implementation.
Two of the new projects have significant Regional Components (Forestry and Northern-
Out Migration) and part of FER's responsibilities will include capacity building, training and
compliance with Bank reporting requirements. This is likely to be a significant and time
consuming task to be managed with existing finance and accounting staff.
We have found the management of FER addressing these key issues and believe their
strategy deserves support pending the outcome of the work by the consultants in their
recommendations regarding the accounting systems of the Foundation.
67



The other key finding is that the Bank needs to address the supervision of key elements of
the supervision of multi-project PIU's on a more integrated basis in relation to the fiduciary
elements of financial management, review and approval of operational expenses and reviews of
project and entity financial reporting.
PART I. REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.  Governance Structure
The Federal Government has created an Inter-ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to
represent their interests in the project. This group is composed of representatives of Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Regional Policy, Ministry of Economy, Apparatus of the President, the
Working Center of Economic Reforms and the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring. To
supervise the project activities during project implementation the Board of Directors of FER will
approve the IMWG as a Project Management Committee (PMC). This committee will represent
both the regional and federal authorities (see paragraph 2.1 for overview of FER's governance
structure and the role of PMC's).
The project is divided into five components:
Component A - Strengthening of Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation - this component will
provide technical assistance to improve the existing framework of intergovernmental fiscal
relations. Counterparts for this component are the Ministry of Finance, State Duma, Federation
Council and the Presidential Administration.
Component B - Strengthening of Federal Monitoring Capacity and the Development of
Standards for Regional Financial Management-improving compliance of the regions with
existing federal laws and regulations.
Component C - Assistance to Sub-national Governments in Accounting and Budgeting -
strengthening the Government's capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal performance and reform
efforts.
Component D - Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews
2.  Regulations and Procedures
The Project Operating manual will cover the project description, project management
system, financial procedures, implementation arrangements, disbursement procedures and
internal control procedures. This manual will be presented for Bank's review and approval in
accordance with the Action Plan.
68



3.   Organizational Structure and Staffing
An Order of the Ministry of Finance was signed on June 29, 1999 establishing a Regional
Fiscal Monitoring Unit (RFMU) within the Department of Inter-budgetary Relations, whose role
will be to monitor regional finance and to manage this project. Initially this is budgeted to have
five MOF staff but this is budgeted to increase to xx over the duration of the Project. This will be
headed by Aleksey Lavrov.
To support the MOF staff in the implementation of the project the RFMU will use a
number of short term consultants who will report directly to Mr. Lavrov. The project design
assumes that as consultancy staff will reduce during the life of the project as Ministry of Finance
staff are trained and drawn into the division.
FER would perform the functions of the Project Implementation Unit for the Project.
During project preparation and implementation, FER will provide procurement, disbursement,
accounting and financial reporting services. Individual consultant contracts are being signed by
FER but with accountability clearly to management within RFMU. The following changes will
be made in the existing organizational structure of FER (also see Part I for the assessment of the
existing structure). Unlike other projects within FER no separate project group will be formed
within FER as all technical issues will be dealt with in Fiscal Monitoring Center.
Within the General Services department, two additional procurement specialists will be
required within FER. Operating costs of FER will be financed under this loan. The general
Services department of FER works on a cost-sharing basis with other projects under
implementation by the Foundation.
4.  Budget preparation and execution
In accordance with the general budgeting procedure described in the Operating manual,
FER's annual operating budget is approved by the Board of Directors. This budget includes
FER's operating budget and the budget for individual contracts signed by FER. A Project
Management Committee is responsible for approving the project budgets.
In accordance with the procedures described in Part I, the overall annual operating budget
of FER will be submitted for prior approval of the Bank's Country Unit, prior to Approval by the
Board of Directors.
Quarterly budgets have to be prepared for main projects and each disbursement category.
The procedure for establishing quarterly budgets will be agreed between FER and the RFMC and
documented within the Operating manual. Annual budgets will be reviewed in the light of
project implementation.
5   Project Accounting Systems and Procedures
Under all components consultants contracts will be signed by FER on behalf of RFMC.
The agreements reached in order to strengthen project accounting systems are addressed in detail
in Part I. Ministry of Finance will issue instructions to the RFMC to ensure records on
counterpart funds are provided to FER for the preparation of financial statements.
69



In addition to the above reporting requirements, FER will submit quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) to the Bank. For each quarterly report FMC will prepare a textual
analysis of the progress of project implementation, which will be attached to the financial report
submitted to the Bank. The composition and format of the Project PMRs will be drafted by FER
and the Bank will provide its comments as provided for in the action plan.
FER will be responsible for the preparation of project financial statements for annual audit.
Project financial statements should include data on total project expenditures and financing for
the reporting period including counterpart funds. Data on counterpart funding will be collated by
FER and will be incorporated into the project financial management statements. The principal
sources of counterpart funding are Ministry of Finance staff within the RFMC and Regional Staff
for Component B plus rental of office space in Ministry of Finance and Regional offices.
6   Disbursement Arrangements
FER will be responsible for compliance with the Bank's disbursement procedures. FER
will initiate payments from the Special Account and, as appropriate directly from the Loan
Account.
7   Audit Arrangements
As noted in Part I of the assessment, it is recommended that one auditor is procured for all
projects implemented by FER. The appointment of project auditor will be a condition of
effectiveness.
8   Conclusion
The overall conclusion is that FER has sufficient capacity to implement the proposed
Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project effectively, although FER need to pay particular
attention to the accountability and internal control procedures within the FMC which has no
experience in project management. The following actions were agreed with FER in order to meet
the Bank's financial management requirements prior to project effectiveness.
70



Proposed Action Plan for strengthening financial management capacity of FMC
Item                      Responsible       Completed   Bank's Action
Party            by
1. Development of         FER/MinFin        September 3, Review and approve
management structure within                 1999
RFTA.
2. Board of Directors of FER  FER           Board
includes Project Management                 Presentation
Committee on the RFTA to
the Governance structure of
FER.
3. Project Management     FER               Board        Review and approve
Reports (PMR's) format and                  Presentation
content (including quarterly
budgets) agreed with the
Bank.
4. Operating manual on    FER, FMC          Board        Review and approve
implementation of Regional                  Presentation
Technical Assistance Project
is prepared for Bank's review
and approval.
5. Appointment of the auditor FER           Bidding
documents
are prepared
by Board
Presentation
The project is certified by a Financial Management Specialist as meeting the minimum financial
management requirements prior to Board Presentation. The implementation of the above Action
Plan is a condition of effectiveness.
71






Concordance Table
Russian Federation
Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
Agreements Reached and Recommendations in the PAD/PR    I   Corresponding Section of Legal
Documents
Borrower may for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in  Article II, Section 2.02 (b)
dollars a Special Account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Borrower declares commitment to the objectives of the Project, and, to  Article III, Section 3.01 (a)
this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry out the Project
primarily through the MOF and FER, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Borrower, through the MOF, shall enter into a Project Implementation   Article III, Section 3.02
Agreement with the FER, under terms and conditions approved by the
Bank.
Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for the  Article III, Section 3.03
Project, financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to be in accordance
with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits".
Borrower shall cause FER to maintain financial management system,   Article IV, Section 4.01 (a)
including records and accounts, and prepare fnancial statements, in
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank.
Borrower shall cause FER to prepare, in accordance with guidelines  Article IV, Section 4.02
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for that period.
MOF shall be responsible for overall management and implementation  Schedule 5, Paragraph A I
of the Project by administration of the timely processing of project-
related documents for procurement, disbursement and other matters, in
accordance with an internal procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
FER shall be responsible for day-to-day technical implementation of    Schedule 5, Paragraph A 3
the Project, including preparation of appropriate auditing reports and
their dissemination to relevant agencies of the Borrower and the Bank.
Borrower shall ensure that FER functions in a manner, and with staff,   Schedule 5, Paragraph A 4
consultants, facilities and other resources necessary -to the
satisfaction of the Bank- until the completion of the Project.
Borrower, through the MOF, shall be responsible for selecting the  Schedule 5, Paragraph B I
Participating Regions in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Bank.
Participating Regions to manifest their intention to carry out the  Schedule 5, Paragraph B 2
Principles of Responsible Regional Fiscal Policy.



FER shall by December I of each year furnish to the Bank for its  Schedule 5, Paragraph C I
review the proposed work program of the FMD, including specific
information on expected expenditures, account of such activities, and
sources of income, as agreed with the Bank.
Borrower shall carry out technical assistance activities through FMD  Schedule 5, Paragraph C 2. (a)
and FER under tenns of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Borrower shall promptly fuimish to the Bank through FER a copy of its  Schedule 5, Paragraph C 2. (b)
findings and recommendations upon completion of technical
assistance activities.
Borrower shall afford the Bank the opportunity to exchange views on    Schedule 5, Paragraph C 2. (c)
the ex-post review of technical assistance activities.
By December I of each year, the FER shall submit to the Bank for  Schedule 5, Paragraph D I
review the proposed budget and financing plan for the PIU and FMD.
Borrower shall develop, adopt and maintain policies and procedures  Schedule 5, Paragraph E I
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of its objectives.
Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Schedule 5, Paragraph E 2
Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about November 30,2001 a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
perforned, and on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project.
* MOF - Ministry of Finance; FMD - Fiscal Monitoring Division; FER - Foundation for Enterprise
Restructuring



