Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4528 RU
Loan Agreement
(Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project)
between
Russian Federation
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 7, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4528 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2000, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. 862 of the Government of the 
Borrower, of July 30, 1998, the Government of the Borrower has adopted 
the Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform Program, containing a plan of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the system of 
intergovernmental fiscal relations of the subjects of the Russian 
Federation from 1999 onwards, including among the priority objectives of 
such program, various measures concerning the improvement of the legal 
and regulatory framework for regulating and monitoring fiscal performance 
at the sub-national level, and envisaging, in implementation thereof, 
targeted federal and regional programs of technical assistance for the 
strengthening of local institutions involved  in budgeting and fiscal 
management at the sub-national level;
(B)
under the framework of the Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform 
Program, primary responsibility for implementation of the federal 
programs connected with the reform of municipal finance and development 
of the framework for fiscal management capacity at the regional level has 
been vested in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower (MOF), acting 
pursuant to the relevant federal legislation and decisions of the 
Government which may be adopted from time to time during the 
Page  2
implementation of the Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform Program;
(C)
MOF has established a specific program of technical 
assistance for the strengthening of the capacity of selected regional 
administrations to carry out certain institutional development objectives 
(the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Program), as described in Parts 
C and D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, wherein a framework will be 
established for rendering financial support to representative regional 
administrations in the territory of the Borrower (the Participating 
Regions, as hereinafter defined), in conjunction with coordinated 
undertakings by such regions to implement specific reforms and essential 
regulatory measures;
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“FER” means the Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise 
Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development, a legal entity 
organized and established pursuant to the Law of the Russian Federation 
of January 12, 1996, on Non-Commercial Organizations, and operating on 
the basis of its Charter dated July 5, 1996, as amended on June 2, 1997, 
and registered with the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice on July 27, 1997, 
and having a Board of Supervisors whose members include, among others, 
the MOF and MOE; and such term shall include any successor or successors 
thereto; 
(b)
“Fiscal Monitoring Division” or “FMD” means a division of 
the MOF established for the purposes of carrying out the 
Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform Program and implementing the Project;
(c)
“IMWG” means the Interministerial Working Group established 
by the Borrower for supervision of the implementation of the Project;
(d)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, or any 
successor or successors thereto;
(e)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any 
successor or successors thereto;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be adopted by FER, setting forth procedures and rules related to 
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
“Participating Regions” means the Subjects of the Russian 
Federation which may from time to time have been selected by the Borrower 
for participation in the Program on the basis of the selection 
Page  3
methodology referred to in Part B (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and which shall have subscribed to the Principles of Responsible Regional 
Fiscal Policy in conformity with the requirements of Part B (2) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
“PIU” means the FER, acting pursuant to the Project 
Implementation Agreement; and such term shall include any successor or 
successors thereto;
(i)
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement 
between the Borrower (represented by MOF), and FER, referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements to the Project 
Implementation Agreement; 
(j)
“Principles of Responsible Regional Fiscal Policy” means the 
principles to which Participating Regions shall subscribe in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Management Reports” or “PMRs” means the reports 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to FER.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the effective date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 
an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry out the Project 
through MOF and FER, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  5
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of 
the Project, the Borrower, through the MOF, shall enter into a project 
implementation agreement (Project Implementation Agreement) with FER, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, 
and which shall include, but not be limited to the following: 
(a)
scope of responsibilities and description of activities to 
be carried out by FER during the execution of the Project, consistent 
with Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
basis of FER financing related to expenditures incurred in 
connection with the Project; and
(c)
reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FER to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FER to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheet, statements 
of sources and uses of 
funds, and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts, 
and report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall cause the FER to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause FER to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (c) (i) of this Section 
and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors on the 
project 
management reports (PMRs) submitted 
during such fiscal year, and as to whether 
the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and  
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause FER to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
Page  7
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of FER to carry out the Project; and
(b)
FER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Implementation Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely the 
events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
FER has adopted the Operational Manual satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(b)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and FER;
(c)
MOF has adopted the statute of FMD defining the scope of its 
responsibilities; 
(d)
the Head of the FMD has been employed with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank; 
(e)
appropriate office space has been allocated to FMD which is 
adequate for purposes of the carrying out of the FMD activities 
contemplated under the Project; and
(f)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b)(i) of this 
Agreement have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy 
Minister of Finance responsible for international economic affairs is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuri Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
 Goods
  1,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
Page  9
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)       Consultants' 
          services and training
21,500,000
100% 
(3)
Incremental Operating  
 5,300,000
100%
Costs
(4)
Fee
   300,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
 1,000,000
TOTAL
       30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” comprises salaries 
and benefits of FMD consultants, salaries and benefits of FER staff and 
consultants employed for the purposes of Project management (all within a 
range for each position acceptable to the Bank), utility charges at a 
rate not to exceed the rate in domestic prices payable by comparable 
organizations, locally procured office equipment and supplies, costs 
payable in connection with rental of office space, maintenance of office 
equipment, systems and facilities, insurance, training, project-related 
auditing services, conferences, and other ordinary and necessary costs 
payable by FER on account of Project implementation, that would be 
payable by entities similarly situated on the territory of the Borrower 
and customarily regarded as a cost of doing business, including 
administrative costs such as travel allowances, communications and 
related expenses; provided, however, that the expenditures hereunder 
shall be as set forth in the approved budgets which shall have been 
adopted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) of this Schedule for 
training activities, until the Bank shall have been furnished with the 
information and criteria, acceptable to the Bank, relating to the content 
and the selection of the beneficiaries of the training activities 
concerned, and the proposed budget therefor, as required pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, 
for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (d) incremental operating 
costs under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the legal 
framework for sub-national public finance and intergovernmental fiscal 
relations; (ii) to establish a mechanism for improving compliance with 
federal laws and regulations in the area of fiscal management and promote 
fiscally responsible behavior at the sub-national level through 
appropriate economic incentives; (iii) to strengthen the Government’s 
capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal performance and reform efforts; 
and (iv) to strengthen institutional capacity of sub-national governments 
for carrying out fiscal and structural reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation 
Provision of technical assistance consisting of analysis of the 
assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities between the 
federal, regional and local governments; analysis of options for the 
reform of intergovernmental transfers; improvement in regulations for 
monitoring sub-national fiscal performance; design of formula-based 
equalization transfers for the regions; and analysis and recommendations 
on how to improve the consistency and compatibility of existing 
legislation on sub-national public finance and intergovernmental fiscal 
relations.
Part B:  Strengthening of Federal Monitoring Capacity
Provision of technical assistance relating to the strengthening of 
institutional capacity for the design, implementation and monitoring of 
the fiscal and structural reforms and performance at the sub-national 
level, through the financing of goods and services, including: 
(i) 
computer and information technology needed for the 
statistical analysis of 
regional data; 
(ii) 
the creation of a library and on-line databases on 
regional fiscal practices 
and the current legislation; 
(iii)  development and dissemination of Principles (Code) of 
Good Practice for 
regional financial management as 
an extra-legal standard;
(iv) 
design of financial disclosure requirements for 
sub-national and municipal 
borrowers; 
(v) 
ongoing monitoring of fiscal and structural reforms 
and performance at the 
sub-national level, as well 
as compliance with federal laws and regulations; 
(vi) 
analytical support and policy advice on key issues of 
intergovernmental fiscal 
reform and sub-national public 
finance; 
(vii)  training, study tours for FMD staff and for 
government staff (including 
regional 
policy-makers) participating in the project activities to develop 
modern analytical skills required for the implementation of 
fiscal reforms; 
and
(viii) office furnishing, administrative and computer 
support to the staff of FMD and 
consultants working on 
other project components. 
Page  11
Part C:
Assistance to Sub-national Governments in Accounting and 
Budgeting 
Provision of technical assistance to the Participating Regions, in 
support of regional institutional development programs, and consisting 
of: 
(i) 
diagnostic reviews and development of reform plans in 
the area of budgeting 
and fiscal management; 
(ii) 
financial planning, treasury and cash management; 
(iii)  budgetary accounting, reporting and audit;
(iv) 
expenditure and public sector restructuring;
(v) 
debt management system; 
(vi)
regional budget procurement system;
(vii)
regional fiscal management guidelines, best practice 
standards, and regional 
and local public finance manual;
(viii) computer equipment and design of software programs; 
and 
(ix) 
training of local staff needed for a successful 
installation and subsequent 
application of integrated 
financial management systems in the selected 
regions. 
Part D:
Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews  
Assistance to the Participating Regions with the design of 
expenditure reform plans through provision of financing for public 
expenditure reviews, focusing on sectors which have been the largest 
recipients of subsidies from consolidated regional budgets. 
Part E:
Project Management
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, 
including institutional strengthening of the PIU and FMD, design and 
implementation of a system of financial management and accounting, 
preparation of the accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and audit of the accounts and financial 
statements referred to above, through the financing of incremental 
operating costs of the PIU and FMD, including external auditing services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
June 15, 2005
1,250,000
December 15, 2005
1,250,000
June 15, 2006
1,250,000
December 15, 2006
1,250,000
June 15, 2007
1,250,000
December 15, 2007
1,250,000
June 15, 2008
1,250,000
Page  12
December 15, 2008
1,250,000
June 15, 2009
1,250,000
December 15, 2009
1,250,000
June 15, 2010
1,250,000
December 15, 2010
1,250,000
June 15, 2011
1,250,000
December 15, 2011
1,250,000
June 15, 2012
1,250,000
December 15, 2012
1,250,000
June 15, 2013
1,250,000
December 15, 2013
1,250,000
June 15, 2014
1,250,000
December 15, 2014
1,250,000
June 15, 2015
1,250,000
December 15, 2015
1,250,000
June 15, 2016
1,250,000
December 15, 2016
1,250,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  13
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  14
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1.
The MOF shall be responsible for the overall management and 
implementation of the Project by administration of, in particular, the 
timely processing (through the Head of the FMD duly authorized to so act) 
of project related documents for procurement, disbursement and other 
matters, in accordance with an internal procedure satisfactory to the 
Bank.
2.
The IMWG shall be responsible for: (a) defining the Project 
implementation strategy; (b) approving Government documents related to 
the Project; (c) approving and controlling the fulfillment of the 
Project’s work programs and budgets; (d) approval of Participating 
Regions; (e) recommending the candidate for the Head of FMD; and (f) 
approval of the expert council members.
3.
FER shall be responsible for day-to-day technical implementation of 
the Project, including financial management, procurement, disbursement, 
engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing 
reports and their dissemination to relevant agencies of the Borrower and 
to the Bank, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports in 
respect of or related to the Project, and shall assist the MOF and IMWG 
in the overall coordination of the Project activities.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the 
Page  15
Project, FER at all times functions in a manner, and with staff, 
consultants, facilities and other resources necessary for the overall 
management and implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank. 
B.
Selection of Participating Regions
1.
The Borrower, through the IMWG shall be responsible for selecting 
Subjects of the Russian Federation for inclusion in the Project, and such 
selection shall be in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the 
Bank and, except as may be otherwise agreed by the Bank, in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.
2.
A region identified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section may be 
included as a Participating Region for purposes of the Project, provided 
that such region has manifest its intention to carry out the Principles 
of Responsible Regional Fiscal Policy, set forth in Annex 2 to this 
Schedule.
3.
MOF shall define in its technical assistance agreement with 
Participating Regions under the Project the respective rights and 
responsibilities of MOF and the Participating Regions with respect to the 
technical assistance provided; and the terms and conditions of this 
agreement shall be communicated to the Bank.
C.
Management of Technical Assistance Work Program and Training
1.
FER shall, by December 1 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review the proposed technical 
assistance work program of FMD for the following year, including specific 
information, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
concerning the expenditures expected to be incurred by FER carrying out 
specific activities under the federal technical assistance work program 
pursuant to the Project Implementation Agreement, and concerning the 
sources of income for financing the same; and FER shall carry out such 
program taking into account the views of the Bank.
2.
For the purpose of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the technical assistance activities referred to in 
paragraph 1 hereof through FMD and FER, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include specific programs or plans 
of action to meet the objectives of the Project;
(b)
promptly after the completion of each such technical 
assistance activity under the Project, furnish to the Bank, through FER, 
a copy of its findings and recommendations and of any reports prepared, 
including such programs or plans of action, as may be reasonably 
requested by the Bank; and
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action.
3.
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under Parts B 
(vii), C (i) and C (vii) of the Project, the Borrower, through FER, 
shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each such 
program as well as the schedule for its implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with 
the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the following 
calendar year; and
Page  16
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training program 
and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
D.  
Financial Planning and Management of Incremental Operating Costs
1.
By December 1 of each year, FER shall submit to the Bank for its 
review the proposed budget and financing plan for incremental operating 
costs, separately for PIU activities and activities associated with FMD, 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. Such budget and 
financing plan shall identify specifically the expenditures to be 
financed by the Bank and the Borrower, respectively, during the following 
year. 
2.
The Borrower shall cause the budget and financing plan for 
incremental operating costs to be adopted taking into account the views 
of the Bank; and except as may be otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall 
cause FER to carry out Project support activities and incur 
project-related expenditures in respect of incremental operating costs in 
accordance with the budget and financing plan so adopted.
E.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
1.
Develop, adopt, and maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators set forth in the Annex 3 to this Schedule 5, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
2.
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about November 30, 2001, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
3.
Review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Annex 1
to
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for Selection of Participating Regions
The following criteria shall apply for the purposes of Part B.1 of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement:
1.
Full disclosure of reliable information concerning public finance 
matters and sub-national fiscal policy in applications for participation 
in the Project.
2.
Regional creditworthiness, including ratio of total debt to tax 
revenue and cash tax revenue, budget deficit, stock and flows of wage 
arrears, dependence on federal transfers, diversification of the tax 
base.
3.
Quality of budget management, including share of overdue debt as a 
percentage of total debt of the regional administration, gap between 
projected and real numbers in consolidated budget execution, 
Page  17
extrabudgetary operations, stability of tax sharing arrangements with 
respect to municipal budgets.
4.
Representativeness of the region, taking into account scale, 
development level, structure of the economy, geographic location, 
relations with the Federal Budget.
Annex 2 
to 
SCHEDULE 5
Principles of Responsible Regional Fiscal Policy
The following shall be the principles and objectives to which 
Participating Regions shall subscribe in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement:
1.
Improvement of transparency of sub-national public finance for the 
general public, federal government, investors and lenders, higher quality 
and reliability of budget accounting practices and disclosure standards;
2.
Preparation of reliable budgets, strict compliance with obligations 
owed to the budget users and creditors, including the federal government.
3.
Restructuring of regionally and municipally-owned enterprises with 
a view to increasing efficiency.
4.
Reduction of budget subsidies to housing and utilities in 
accordance with the federal program on conversion to the new system of 
payments for housing and communal services.
5.
Phasing-out of non-cash budget instruments, individual tax 
exemptions, extrabudgetary funds (with the exception of extrabudgetary 
funds operating in compliance with the federal legislation) and accounts.
6.
Enactment of legislation on tax sharing and assignment of 
expenditures responsibilities for regional and local budgets, 
establishment of an objective and transparent mechanism of intraregional 
transfers.
7.
Introduction of progressive methods of sub-national public finance 
management, in particular phasing in of budget execution through the 
treasury, separation of current and capital expenditures, use of medium 
term financial and investment planning, creation of debt management 
system at the sub-national level, introduction of competitive practices 
in procurement procedures at the regional and municipal level.
8.
Creation of a business environment conducive to private investment 
and economic development within the region.
Annex 3 
to 
SCHEDULE 5
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
The following indicators shall apply for the purposes of the 
monitoring of the progress of the Project referred to in Part E of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement:
1.
Computerized information network for fiscal monitoring of regions 
in place.
2.
Inventories of expenditure assignments completed.
3.
Laws and legal amendments on expenditure assignments drafted.
Page  18
4.
Laws and legal amendments on unfunded mandates drafted.
5.
Treasury principles of budget execution implemented.
6.
Regional compliance with clauses of Code of Good Practice improved.
7.
Laws on reporting, budgeting and budget management drafted.
8.
Computerized systems installed, in particular, financial reporting 
programs.
9.
Model laws on capital and multi-year budgeting drafted.
10.
Model laws on budget audits drafted.
11.
Regional borrowing and debt servicing profiles improved.
12.
Formula-based equalization transfers designed.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services, and incremental 
operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000). 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
Page  19
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  20
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
