                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2145



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-45280 TF-51789)



                                    ON A

                                   LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                           RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                   FOR A

           REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                              December 29, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Russia Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 2011)

                            Currency Unit = Ruble
                               1.00 = US$ 0.03
                           US$ 1.00 = 31.56 Rubles

                 FISCAL YEAR: January 1 – December 31



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
FER      Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (PIU)
FFRFRP   Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Project
FMD      Fiscal Monitoring Division, Ministry of Finance
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOR      Government of Russia
IMWG     Inter-Ministerial Working Group
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IRI      Intermediate Results Indicator
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
MOF      Ministry of Finance
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
QAG      Quality Assessment Group
RF       Russian Federation
RFTAP    Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project


              Vice President:           Philippe Le Houerou
              Country Director:         Pedro Alba
              Sector Manager:           William Dorotinsky
              Project Team Leader:      Stepan Titov
              ICR Team Leader:          Ronald Myers




                                       ii
                                      Russian Federation
                          Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project



                                                  CONTENTS




DATA SHEET…………………………………………………………………………iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
MAP.………………………………………………………………………………….40




                                                           iii
DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
                                                                            Regional Fiscal
Country:                Russian Federation        Project Name:             Technical Assistance
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P058587                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-45280,TF-51789
ICR Date:               12/30/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:                 RUSSIAN
                                                                            FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 30.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 28.61M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 28.61M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Foundation Of Enterprise Restructuring
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/09/1998      Effectiveness:              08/30/2000        08/30/2000
Appraisal:            04/15/1999      Restructuring(s):                             07/01/2009
Approval:             12/22/1999      Mid-term Review:                              02/14/2003
                                      Closing:                    12/31/2004        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                                 iv
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     50                   42
Law and justice                                                        8                   15
Sub-national government administration                                42                   43


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             20                   20
Law reform                                                            20                   20
Legal institutions for a market economy                               20                   20
Municipal finance                                                     20                   20
Tax policy and administration                                         20                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                           Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:            William Leslie Dorotinsky            Pradeep K. Mitra
Project Team Leader:       Stepan Anatolievich Titov            Lawrence M. Hannah
ICR Team Leader:           Stepan Anatolievich Titov
ICR Primary Author:        Ronald E. Myers


                                               v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP) pursues the following
objectives: build institutional capacity to advance the reform of inter-governmental fiscal
relations, and improve fiscal performance at the regional and municipal level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
•       Improve the legal framework for sub-national public finance and inter-
governmental fiscal relations;
  •     Establish a mechanism for improving compliance with federal laws and
regulations in the area of fiscal management and promote fiscally responsible behavior at
the sub-national level through appropriate economic incentives;
  •     Strengthen the Government‘s capacity to monitor sub-national performance and
reform efforts;
  •     Strengthen the institutional capacity of sub-national governments to carry out
fiscal and structural reforms.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target      Formally     Actual Value
                                          Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval          Target      Completion or
                                           documents)         Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Laws and legal amendments on expenditure assignment
                                                                        Three new laws and
                                                                        legal amendments
                                                                        on expenditure
                                         Laws and legal                 assignments were
Value           Inadequate legal
                                         amendments on                  drafted and
quantitative or framework for
                                         expenditure                    approved by
Qualitative)    expenditure assignment
                                         assignment drafted             12/31/2006 with a
                                                                        fourth drafted by
                                                                        5/8/2010. All were
                                                                        put into effect.
Date achieved 12/22/1999               05/31/2002                       05/08/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Formula-based equalization transfers designed
                                                                        Formula based
                Transfers often based on
                                                                        equalization
Value           ad hoc criteria and      Formula-based
                                                                        transfers were
quantitative or negotiations between     equalization
                                                                        designed by
Qualitative)    federal and sub-national transfers designed
                                                                        06/29/2001 and
                government.
                                                                        instituted by July

                                              vi
                                                                          31, 2002 for all
                                                                          regions
                                                                          participating in the
                                                                          Regional Fiscal
                                                                          Reform Fund,
                                                                          which also received
                                                                          technical support
                                                                          from the project.
Date achieved   12/22/1999                06/29/2001                      06/29/2001
Comments
                Subsequently the use of formula based transfers was expanded nationwide and
(incl. %
                accounted for 98 percent of transfers by December 31, 2009.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Computerized information network for fiscal monitoring
                                                                          Computerized
                                                                          information
                                          Computerized                    network was
                Federal fiscal monitoring
Value                                     information                     designed, installed
                is paper based, slow, and
quantitative or                           network for fiscal              by August 2001,
                suffers from
Qualitative)                              monitoring in                   and subsequently
                discrepancies
                                          place                           upgraded to provide
                                                                          timely and accurate
                                                                          data.
Date achieved 12/22/1999               08/31/2001                         08/31/2001
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Computerized systems, in particular financial reporting
                                                                          As of 12\31\2003
                                                                          computerized
                                                                          systems were
                                                                          introduced in
                                                                          project participating
                                        Computerized                      regions, which
Value           Slow paper based
                                        systems, in                       allowed a switch to
quantitative or financial management in
                                        particular financial              the treasury
Qualitative)    regions.
                                        reporting, installed              principle of budget
                                                                          execution. Module
                                                                          for medium term
                                                                          financial planning
                                                                          added in December
                                                                          2005.
Date achieved 12/22/1999                  12/31/2003                      12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Inventories of expenditure assignments
                                                                            An inventory of all
                                                                            expenditure
                                                                            assignments to
                                         Inventories of
Value           No reliable inventory of                                    regional entities
                                         expenditure
(quantitative   expenditure assignments                                     was completed by
                                         assignments
or Qualitative) existed                                                     May 2001 and has
                                         completed.
                                                                            been regularly
                                                                            updated and kept
                                                                            current since.
Date achieved 12/22/1999                   05/31/2001                       05/31/2001
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
 1      06/30/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.00
 2      12/27/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.80
 3      06/28/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       1.90
 4      12/21/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       3.34
 5      06/25/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.69
 6      12/24/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       7.06
 7      06/26/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       9.27
 8      12/15/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     12.04
 9      06/15/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     14.53
 10     12/22/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     17.55
 11     06/09/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     20.03
 12     12/20/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     21.92
 13     07/14/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     22.80
 14     03/13/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     23.16
 15     12/26/2007          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              24.07
 16     12/02/2008          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              25.42
 17     06/26/2009          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              26.67
 18     01/14/2010          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              27.40
 19     01/17/2011          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              27.96




                                              viii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 07/01/2009       Y       S     MS           26.67


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

With 89 constituent regions which vary widely in population and density, geographic
size, economic development, cultural background, and natural resource deposits, the
Russian Federation confronted in the late 1990s serious issues of inter- governmental
fiscal relations. Following the breakup of the Soviet Union there had been a significant
devolution of political and fiscal power away from the central government, with
significant implications for macro-economic performance, allocative effectiveness, and
productive efficiency within the entire public sector. While varying degrees of
decentralization of responsibility and funding for service delivery are common in
physically large and diverse nations, the process of decentralization and parallel fiscal
changes had been chaotic in Russia with no clear responsibilities at the federal or local
levels. Regional budgets were based mostly on negotiated expenditure norms,
customized revenue sharing rates and bargained transfers from the federal government.
Some resource rich areas benefitted from their own local tax base (and ability to negotiate
with the center over the distribution of tax collections) while poorer regions suffered
from increased mandates for social and other service spending without augmented
funding from an overstretched federal government. Beyond financing, the legal
framework for fiscal federalism was deficient, compliance was spotty, and the
institutional capacity of many regions quite weak. The situation came to head during the
financial crisis of 1998. By that point most sub-national governments had slipped into
deficits, their combined interest payments in 1998 on a growing stock of debt had
reached a large 0.74% of GDP, and defaults by regions threatened. The government and
outside observers agreed that while the federal government had been making progress in
restoring fiscal balance, the regions represented a serious risk to overall macroeconomic
stability and national economic growth.

The government therefore initiated a program to introduce more order and symmetry into
the system of fiscal federalism. A Concept of Reform of Intergovernmental Fiscal
Relations 1999-2001 paper was approved by the federal government in 1998, an Inter-
Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) for Inter-Governmental Fiscal Reform was
established, and dialogue was initiated with the regions. The medium term program
envisaged actions to eliminate unfunded mandates to sub-national governments, a revised
formula for allocating federal equalization transfers, and a rationalized assignment of
expenditures and taxes to help establish a more stable and transparent system of inter-
governmental finance with a revenue base at each government level commensurate with
its respective responsibilities.

The government requested Bank support for this program, reflecting the organization‘s
extensive global experience in sub-national fiscal management, ongoing operations at the
sub-national level in Russia, and a series of Bank analytic reports beginning in the early



                                             1
1990s which had influenced government thinking on fiscal federalism. Together the
government and Bank conceived an innovative program of competitive grants to regional
governments (largely equivalent to provinces or states in other federal systems) based on
their adoption of fiscal reforms—a program to be supported by the Fiscal Federalism &
Regional Fiscal Reform Project (FFRFP, SCL-46470), a $120 million World Bank
operation approved in January 2002. The subject Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project (RFTAP), designed by the same Bank and counterpart teams and approved two
years earlier, was to prepare the ground work and subsequently support the
implementation of the FFRFP. The TA operation would address the inadequate legal
framework (mostly federal) and weak institutional structure (mostly regional).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective in the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the
President (Report No: T 7345-RU) is:

      Improve the legal framework for sub-national public finance and inter-governmental
       fiscal relations;
      Establish a mechanism for improving compliance with federal laws and regulations in
       the area of fiscal management and promote fiscally responsible behavior at the sub-
       national level through appropriate economic incentives;
      Strengthen the Government’s capacity to monitor sub-national performance and reform
       efforts;
      Strengthen the institutional capacity of sub-national governments to carry out fiscal and
       structural reforms.

A set of 12 monitoring indicators was presented in Annex 1 of the Technical Annex
which would apply to the regions participating in the FFRFP and project. They were not
identified as PDO or intermediate results indicators (the latter was not in use by the Bank
at that time). The indicators are output focused but consistent with the support to be
provided by the project to the broader outcomes in the FFRFP.

      Computerized information network for fiscal monitoring in place
      Inventories of expenditure assignments completed
      Laws and legal amendments on expenditure assignments drafted
      Laws and legal amendments on unfunded mandates drafted
      Treasury principles of budget execution implemented
      Regional compliance with clauses of Code of Good Practice improved
      Laws on reporting, budgeting and budget management drafted
      Computerized systems, in particular financial reporting, installed
      Model laws on capital and multi-year budgeting drafted
      Model laws on budget audits drafted
      Regional borrowing and debt servicing profiles improved
      Formula-based equalization transfers designed

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification



                                              2
In line with a Bank wide effort in 2009 to ensure conformity between Legal Agreements
and loan documents presented to the Executive Board, the team reviewed the relevant
documents. It discovered that the Legal Agreement identified as PDOs the four
objectives in the above section but the Technical Annex inadvertently put in broader
goals involving ―building institutional capacity to advance the reform of inter-
governmental fiscal relations, and improve fiscal performance at the sub-national level.‖
Following discussions and agreement with counterparts, the Board was notified in a
Corrigendum that only the four PDOs in the Legal Agreement would be those for the
project and that the approval document was modified to conform to those PDOs.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The project was prepared prior to adoption of the current PAD and ISR formats so there
is no primary target group identified. Based on the characteristics of the project, however,
it could be assumed that the beneficiaries were, most directly, government officials and
staff at the central and sub-national levels benefiting from training, improved business
processes and policy framework, and some ICT equipment. The agencies affected by the
project include the Ministry of Finance plus the various regional finance departments. It
is fair to conclude that citizens are the ultimate beneficiaries in terms of improved
services, better value for taxpayer resources, and improved macroeconomic performance
in part due to the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

This project included four substantive components (plus project management). Support
would be provided through technical assistance, training, with small investments in office
equipment, information and communication technology, and supplies. The Bank would
also finance a part of the operating costs of the Fiscal Monitoring Division as well as
those of the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring.

A. Strengthening Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation (Financing US$ 2.2
million)

This component would fund local and international consultants to assist in legal and
policy research efforts focused on high-priority themes in two sub-components related to
(i) inter-governmental fiscal relations, regional budgeting and debt, and (ii) regional
development funds. Anticipated activities included completing an inventory of the
current assignment of revenue and expenditures responsibilities between the federal,
regional and local governments; design of formula-based equalization transfers for the
regions; federal regulations for monitoring sub-national fiscal performance; and analysis
of the consistency and compatibility of existing legislation on sub-national public finance
and inter-governmental fiscal relations.




                                             3
B. Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity: Fiscal Monitoring Division and the
PIU for the RFTAP (Financing US$ 8.1 million)

The component would finance the provision of technical assistance relating to the
strengthening of institutional capacity for the design, implementation and monitoring of
the fiscal and structural reforms and performance at the sub-national level through three
sub-components aimed at establishing (i) a ―standard‖ monitoring system, (ii) ―extended‖
and ―special‖ monitoring ratings, and (iii) a fiscal statistic database. The component
would fund: (i) computer and information technology; (ii) the creation of a library and
on-line databases; (iii) development and dissemination of Principles (Code) of Good
Practice for regional financial management as an extra legal standard; (iv) design of
financial disclosure requirements for sub-national and municipal borrowers; (v) ongoing
monitoring of fiscal and structural reforms and performance at the sub-national level, as
well as compliance with federal laws and regulations; (vi) analytical support and policy
advice on key issues of inter-governmental fiscal reform and sub-national public finance;
(vii) training, study tours for staff of the Finance Ministry‘s Fiscal Monitoring
Department (FMD) and for government staff (including regional policy-makers)
participating in the project activities to develop modern analytical skills required for the
implementation of fiscal reforms; and (viii) office furnishing, administrative and
computer support to the staff of the FMD and consultants working on other project
components.

C. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting
(Financing US$ 9.4 million)

This component would finance technical assistance to the regions participating in the
fiscal federalism and regional fiscal reform program supported by the FFRFR loan. It
would support institutional development programs through six subcomponents relating
to: (i) financial planning, treasury and cash management; (ii) budgetary accounting,
reporting and auditing; (iii) expenditure and public sector restructuring; (iv) debt
management systems; (v) regional budget procurement systems; and (vi) regional fiscal
management guidelines, best practice standards, and regional and local public finance
manual. Support would be provided for computer equipment and design of software
programs, training of local staff needed for a successful installation of and subsequent
application of integrated financial management systems in the selected regions, as well as
diagnostic reviews and development of reform plans in budgeting and fiscal management.

D. Sectoral Public Expenditure Review (Financing US$2.2 million)

The component would assist participating regions with the design of expenditure reform
plans by financing nine public expenditure reviews. These would primarily focus on the
sectors which had been the largest recipients of subsidies from consolidated regional
budgets such as housing and utilities, agriculture, public transportation, education and
health, etc. The reviews were expected to result in prioritization of budget expenditures
into key functional sectors, identification of lower priority programs, introduction of




                                             4
appropriate pricing policies to provide for cost recovery, as well as identification of
sectoral expenditure programs for alternative provision by the private sector.


1.6 Revised Components

There were no revisions in the components.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project was originally designed to complement the FFRFP SAL project, focus on
inter-governmental fiscal reforms in regions competitively selected for grants, and close
in 2004. In fact it was extended four times, becoming a critical source of support for a
broader program of budget reform at both the federal and regional levels. In effect, the
operation entered a second stage, reflected in amendments to legal agreements signed in
2004, as the government determined that regularizing inter-governmental fiscal relations
would be insufficient given the serious problems in federal budget practices being
replicated in the regions. Deeper budget and public financial management reforms were
needed at the federal level in tandem with the effort to build institutional capacity and
compliance at the regional level.

Project extension was viewed by the government as the best approach to maintain the
momentum of fiscal federalism reforms, building upon a good partnership with the Bank.
The project and related FFRFP project were deemed by the government to be highly
successful and important national priorities. In its observations for the FFRFP
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the government said that together they were
―one [sic] of the most successful projects performed jointly with the IBRD‖. (Indeed
even today Finance Ministry officials refer to the two projects as one operation.) The
value added by the Bank was highly regarded, consisting of: (i) facilitating access to best
international practices and experts (in the Bank, firms, and academia); (ii) quality control
exercised through Bank team oversight; (iii) the relative speed, weight given quality of
bid proposals, and accessibility afforded to international consultancies under Bank
procurement practices; and (iv) the domestic funding predictability for the reform effort
afforded by the presence of a Bank loan. For the Bank the project became an important
vehicle for policy dialogue in the critical area of government financial management and
an instrument to address systemic challenges impacting Bank lending to sub-national
entities.

Rather than seeking a new project, which posed practical difficulties as the government
had decided to limit resort to international development funding, the Finance Ministry
significant increased the amount of counterpart funding for the project. At appraisal
Bank funds were projected to finance 83% of the project, but by loan closure the Bank
had financed 41% of the operation. Conversely, counterpart funding increased from a
planned $6.2 million to $41.6 million. While implementation continued (with augmented
government funding) the rate of loan disbursements slowed after 2004, with only $10.4


                                             5
million disbursed in the last 7 years of the project, largely reflecting the dilution of Bank
loan funds. On the other hand, while Bank funded disbursements fell in absolute
amounts during this period, total disbursements, which include both the Bank and
counterpart funding increased to $49.2 million signaling that the project activities
continued at a good pace. A secondary issue was the procurement process which, while
correct, was slower than anticipated given government processes, the scope of the project,
government‘s desire to secure the highest quality inputs, close attention to quality of
consultant products (often requiring additional work and delaying payments), etc.

Funding allocations did not change significantly within the Bank loan, although the
increase in counterpart funding led to notable increases in two components. Given the
increased focus on deeper budget reform at the federal level total spending under
Component 1 increased from a planned $2.2 million to $17.92 million. Similarly the
expanded effort to reach more regions raised expenditures in Component 3 from a
planned $9.4 million to $28.66 million. Spending for strengthening federal monitoring
capacity in Component 2 also increased although less so from an anticipated $8.1 million
to $11.69 million, while funding for the public expenditure reviews in Component 4
increased from $2.2 million to $3.1 million.

As the bulk of original performance indicators were met by 2004, the Bank sought new
indicators to accompany the extension of the project and respond to QAG suggestions to
better capture project outcomes. This effort, first mentioned in a supervision mission
Aide Memoire in November 2005 reached fruition with additional performance indicators
adopted in December 12, 2008.

The process was prolonged in part given the enhanced status of performance indicators as
they were embedded in the legal agreement and viewed within the Russian administration
as firm commitments rather than indicative targets or aspirations. Moreover, the project
as a complex technical assistance operation which cut across various departments and
initiatives was an entirely new experience for the Ministry of Finance. Consequently the
identification, vetting, and final approval of the new performance indicators, despite
considerable pressure and specific proposals from the Bank, took time.

Unlike the original performance indicators, which were mostly of qualitative, output
oriented, and discrete nature, the new ones were measuring changes in both qualitative
and quantitative outcomes over the project‘s life period and the MOF paid special
attention not only on achieving but also over achieving these targets:

       MOF performs quarterly monitoring of overdue accounts payable of the Russian regions
        Monitoring of debt of the Russian regions, including borrowings from international
        financial institutions without sovereign guarantee, is performed by the MOF on an
        annual basis
       Allocation of transfers, subsidies, and subventions from the budgets of at least 60
        Russian regions is based on approved methodologies
       In at least 70 Russian regions revenue assignments and expenditure responsibilities are
        made according to the relevant federal legislation




                                              6
       Debt stock in at least 90 percent of the Russian regions is in compliance with the Budget
        Code caps
       Number of regions, which received federal grants from the Regional and Municipal
        Fiscal Reform Fund (managed by the MOF) during years of its operations, is not less
        than 25% of total number of regions

New performance indicators reflected the necessity to advance sub-national PFM reforms
through capacity building and approval of additional legislation, normative acts, and
methodological recommendations on a wide range of issues, thus leading to
improvements in the key parameters of the sub-national public finance system.

Reflecting in part federal concern about serious public sector performance shortfalls
across many regions, in 2004 President Putin determined that regional governors would
be appointed by the President rather than elected by regional voters. This was a
significant policy change impacting the character of Russian inter-governmental relations
as well as incentive and accountability dynamics for governors. However, the project‘s
focus on capacity development in fiscal matters appears to have been only marginally
affected by the decision. For example, compliance with federal legislation and Budget
Code caps is judged by the Finance Ministry to have significantly improved over the
course of the project. In any case a comprehensive fiscal federalism legal framework,
sound financial management systems and practices, increased staff skills and ICT
capacity, and appropriate monitoring of performance in complying with federal
regulations and mandates are core attributes of well functioning fiscal federalism
regardless of broader arrangements, at least in the short to medium term. In the longer
term, the theory and practice of fiscal federalism suggests that the efficiency and the
impact of decentralization is stronger when local decision makers are accountable to the
public of their jurisdictions. In December 2011 President Medvedev and Prime-Minister
Putin announced their intention to move to the system when governors are elected by
regional voters.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project at entry was satisfactory. This judgment reflects its alignment with the
Government‘s decentralization and fiscal federalism program, deep analytical work by
World Bank staff on decentralization challenges in the country, direct link to the large
adjustment loan (FFRFP) which would leverage the reforms supported by the project, and
a strong multi-disciplinary Bank team which sought outside expert quality reviews.

The extent and quality of Bank analytical work on decentralization issues in Russia was
impressive and included: (i) Russia and the Challenge of Fiscal Federalism, Wallich
(1994); (ii) Fiscal Management in the Russian Federation, World Bank Report No.
14862-RU, Le Houerou (1995); (iii) Federal Transfers in Russia: Their Impact on
Regional Revenues and Incomes, Comparative Economic Studies 38(2-3) 21-44 Le


                                                7
Houerou and Rutkowski (1998); (iv) Subnational Budgeting in Russia: Preempting a
Potential Crisis, World Bank Technical Paper No. 452, Freinkman, Treisman, Titov
(1999); and (v) Decentralization in Regional Fiscal Systems in Russia: Trends and Links
to Economic Performance, Policy Research Working Paper No. 2100, Freinkman and
Yossifov.

While no official Quality at Entry review was conducted on the project, a comprehensive
one was carried out on the parallel FFRFP operation. The QER team noted in its May 29,
2001 report, besides a positive assessment of the FFRFP, that ―the presentation of the
loan would be strengthened if the strong linkage between the regional fiscal reform TA
loan [RFTAP] and the present operation were more clearly developed and
emphasized….We consider this linkage to be one of the strengths of the program….‖

The project sought to incorporate lessons from the Bank‘s experience in Russia as well as
with technical assistance operations. Regarding the former it noted that sub-national
reform operations (St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation, Urban Transport, and
Housing projects, among others) suggested a need for careful monitoring of activities at
the sub-national level, leading directly to a component aimed at strengthened federal
monitoring. Perhaps more importantly these operations suggested that advances in public
financial management at the regional level could be patchy and unsustainable in the
absence of more systematic nation-wide reforms. Drawing on OED findings, the project
also sought to build a strong management structure for the operation through the
designation of the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER) to be the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The Foundation had developed an exemplary disbursement
record and high quality of outputs in managing other Bank operations. The Inter-
Ministerial Working Group, chaired by the Deputy Finance Minister, was tasked with
providing policy oversight to the project, and undoubtedly reinforced the priority attached
to the reform effort and reduced risks of flagging counterpart commitment.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Implementation of the project in each of its components proceeded well after
effectiveness. The commitment, capacity, and influence of the Ministry of Finance
seems to have ensured a relatively smooth execution of project activities, close
coordination with the parallel FFRFP, attainment of all original and additional
performance indicator targets, and fulfillment of PDOs. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment, conducted by a Quality Assessment Group (QAG) panel in mid 2004, gave
the project an overall rating of Satisfactory.

The Mid Term Review, conducted in February 2003 found satisfactory progress in
project implementation which had already led to considerable achievements. It noted the
intellectual leadership and excellent management of the project by the Finance Ministry.
No substantive changes were proposed. The report noted that greater than expected
challenges in procurement (complexity in terms of reference, processing time, and extent



                                                8
of quality review and report presentation) were slowing the anticipated rate of
disbursements. The authorities and team both signaled a desire to extend the project.

There was no substantive restructuring of the loan, although as detailed above, the
extensions of the loan and increases in counterpart funding facilitated an expanded focus
on federal budget reform with subsequent replication and capacity building in the regions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation of outcomes was an important substantive aspect of project
design as a large project component was specifically targeted at improving the capacity
of the federal government to monitor fiscal and structural reforms at the sub-national
level. Technical assistance, training, and some ICT support were aimed at improving the
ability of the FMD specifically to improve the reliability, timeliness, and relevance of
data collected from sub-national entities as well as FMD‘s ability to evaluate the data.
For a project prepared in the late 1990s there was a fairly extensive list of detailed
performance indicators. These indicators were viewed by the authorities as solid legal
commitments (rather than aspirations, guidelines, or bell weathers of performance), thus
explaining the extended process of adding additional indicators. A survey of
stakeholders and/or final seminars among stakeholders to review project performance,
however, did not occur, according to Finance Ministry officials, because project results
were already discussed at periodic (semi-annual) workshops for CEOs of finance
departments of all Russian regions and at the conferences, which were incorporated into
practically all major contracts. Finance Ministry officials indicate that final project results
will be discussed during the next semi-annual workshop for regional CEOs in spring
2012, and that the surveys will be undertaken in the future, and that they recognize their
important feedback benefits.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Satisfactory financial management capacity and systems were in place at project
effectiveness and maintained through the life of the project. Use of the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring (FER)—a central unit supporting several other World Bank
funded operations—assured smooth loan management and project administration.
Quarterly financial monitoring reports were submitted on time and were acceptable to the
Bank. Annual audit reports for the project and FER were submitted by the due date and
were unqualified; auditors did not raise any issues in the management letters.

Procurement under the project proceeded smoothly without any declarations of mis-
procurement by the Bank or receipt of suppliers' complaints. During eight post reviews
carried out by the procurement staff no violations were identified. Goods and services
were delivered in full volume and in due time and no delays were identified in payments.
In the months immediately prior to loan closure the Bank reluctantly gave several
retroactive clearances on an exceptional basis where contracts had been amended or
extended (the reason for late application to the Bank was the Borrower's long
bureaucratic procedure for obtaining appropriate signatures for requests). Beyond these


                                                 9
exceptions to the Bank‘s procurement policies, procurement performance in the project
was satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Substantial advances in laws, regulations, and procedures, staff skills and capacity,
management information systems, federal monitoring capacity, etc. strengthened by the
project have been institutionalized within the public sector according to government
officials and private sector observers. They form the basic fabric of fiscal federalism
now and are expected to be sustained. Nevertheless challenges remain, so a follow up
Public Finance and Financial Sector Modernization Loan is in preparation. A major
component planned for that project on Inter-Government Fiscal Relations will seek to
improve the quality of budget management at regional and municipal levels, improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of budget transfer mechanisms, clarify expenditure
obligations of state bodies versus local self-governments and strengthen the internal
revenue base of sub-national governments. The project will also seek to address the
challenge of incentivizing lagging regions to undertake needed reforms. The original
decision of the combined RFTAP and FFRFP operations to concentrate resources and
attention on reforming regions selected on the basis of competition linked to initiation of
fiscal reforms created positive dynamics, established models, and permitted the piloting
of various policies and procedures at both levels of governments in a hospitable
environment. Nevertheless, Russia (like all federal states) must return to the challenges
of promoting reforms and improving services to citizens in regions which lag for a
variety of geographic, political, economic, or social circumstances.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance /Country Partnership
Strategies as highlighted in the past four CAS/CPS documents dating back to 1999. At
project approval a core strategic priority of the December 1999 CAS was to ―increase
emphasis on reform of systemic policies and institutions intended to improve the
performance of public sector institutions that are vital for public administration and for
the development of an environment attractive to investors.‖ This approach in fact
reflected a shift in Bank lending emphasis away from regional investment projects and
project lending in infrastructure and energy in favor of increased emphasis on systemic
aspects of institutional development. The Bank‘s Country Partnership Strategy, approved
on November 20, 2006 and extended to 2011 in a Progress Report to the Board on July
30, 2009 identifies four main goals: diversify the economy for sustainable development
and growth, improve public sector management and performance, improve delivery of
communal and social services, and enhance Russia‘s global role in international
development. The RFTAP clearly fits within the second pillar of improved public sector


                                                10
management and contributes to attainment of the two others relating to diversifying the
economy and improving delivery of services.

The extensive co-financing provided by the government to the project, fulfillment of
PDOs and initiation of activities not contemplated at approval, and multiple extension
requests for the loan underscore the relevance attached to the project by the authorities.
Finally, the design of competitive grants to regions based on transparent indicators of
reform performance and supported by a parallel technical assistance operation has served
as a model in other sectors such as education and health.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

With the support of the project, Russia has made considerable progress in reforming and
unifying the legal and procedural framework for public sector financial management and
budgeting at both the federal and regional levels, creating a more smoothly functioning
system of fiscal federalism and strengthening the capacity of selected federal and regional
government agencies involved in fiscal federalism. The project has met its four inter-
related development objectives which together have strengthened public financial
management at both the federal and regional level:

Improving the legal framework. The project supported the design and drafting of laws
and regulations increasing the coherence and modernizing the approach of the fiscal legal
framework. Project funded consultants directly supported the conceptualization,
development, and drafting of a long list of key laws and a myriad of implementing
regulations. Supported by new procedures, operational methodologies, manuals, and
trained staff (also funded by the project) the norms constitute a coherent and core legal
framework for fiscal policy in Russia. The laws cover the full range of possible
legislation including expenditure assignments, unfunded mandates, capital and multi-
annual budgeting, and auditing. After 2005 major achievements under this component
included improvements in the legal framework with respect to asset management, the
introduction of temporary financial administration, strengthening of sub-national public
finance, the development of financial control systems, the transformation of budgetary
organizations into autonomous entities, and strengthening financial management in line
ministries and departments.

Strengthened federal monitoring: The project significantly strengthened the federal
government‘s capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal performance as well as reform
efforts. Direct assistance to the FMD through technical assistance improved the capacity
of staff, coherence of procedures, and monitoring methodologies. As a result, regional
fiscal performance is monitored monthly through indicators on all macro expenditure and
revenue data as well as spending in key social sectors. (When the integrated financial
management information system being supported by a separate World Bank operation –
Treasury Development Project- P064508--is completed the accuracy and timeliness of
data will be enhanced further.) An annual report is prepared by FMD on each region
which is published online and presented to the respective governor. Where needed,


                                               11
corrective recommendations are made to the region and shared with the federal district (a
powerful intermediate layer between regional governors and the federal Presidency).
Ceilings for regional debt and guarantees are set annually by the federal government and
monitored by FMD, and in the event of breeches of the ceilings performance agreements
are reached between the Finance Ministry and the region.

Strengthen sub-national governments’ institutional capacity: The project supported a
series of interventions in training (specifically training to enhance capacity of municipal
and regional employees in the course of implementation of the municipal and budget
reforms), ICT investments, and policy dialogue to improve the ability of sub-national
governments to implement fiscal and structural reforms. Notable achievements include
technical assistance to 24 regions on design and implementation of basic level public
sector reform programs plus enhanced technical assistance to 6 regions in the adoption of
a series of modern public sector management systems (medium term financial planning,
treasury and cash management systems, debt management, public procurement,
accounting, and audit). To date, 54 of 83 regions have submitted public financial reform
programs and received federal grant support. These institutional capacity building
exercises are in line with those supported by the project, with the aim of improving
compliance with new federal norms and procedures also supported by the project.
Semiannual meetings are held with finance officials of all regions to in part share
experiences and facilitate cross regional learning. The project funded the development of
Best Practice Codes for regional/municipal public financial management. After 2005
special emphasis was put on issuing best practice recommendations on expenditure
management and public sector restructuring at the sub-national level, improvements in
efficiency of service delivery in the key budgetary sectors (e.g. education, public
transportation, housing & utilities), strengthening intra-regional transfers system,
implementation of medium-term financial planning and performance based budgeting,
and development of budget auditing including performance auditing in the regions.

Improving compliance with federal laws and promotes responsible behavior: As a
result of improvements in the legal framework, strengthened federal monitoring, and
support to regions, regional compliance with federal laws has improved significantly.
According to the Finance Ministry and its websites which provide information on fiscal
performance by regional governments, the bulk of such governments are in full
compliance with federal norms. Compliance with the Budget Code caps on debt stock,
budget deficit, debt service, and revenue-current expenditure ratio improved
significantly- from non-compliance of 23 regions in 2003 to only 2 in 2010. This
situation contrasts with that prior to the project where there were unclear budgetary rules,
regulations, and procedures, spotty and late reporting of performance, excessive regional
borrowing, etc. As indicated above regions are now graded annually on their adherence
to federal guidelines and those falling short received detailed corrective recommendations
from federal authorities. In the worst of cases the federal authorities can intervene in the
region, a sanction which has occurred in only one case but which is seen as a strong
lesson and potent sanction for encouraging good behavior. (Performance indicators in
Annex 2 provide evidence of additional improvements).




                                            12
The project also promoted responsible behavior by the significant efforts made to
improve budgeting through the adoption of multi-year budgeting as well as program
based budgeting. The latter is scheduled to be implemented in the 2013 federal budget
and then rolled out to the regions. Classifying spending based on programs (a major
effort for any government) is the foundation for facilitating a focus on results and
improving performance based budgeting and service delivery.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As an institution-building project, quantitative computations of rates of return are not
applicable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

The project‘s highly relevant focus on improving public financial administration nation-
wide, achievement of its PDOs, and efficiency in leveraging a $30 million loan to support
comprehensive fiscal reforms at the federal and regional levels over 11 years fully
warrants a Satisfactory rating. Improved public sector fiscal administration in terms of
legal framework, procedures, information sharing, results focus as well as improved
performance in regions undertaking reforms supported by the project is a fundamental
building block of effective governance. Its relevance to Russia‘s economic and social
progress has been recognized by the authorities and Bank since the beginning of Bank
operations in the country. It remains a priority as the government seeks to introduce a
program and results focus into budgeting, accelerate capacity building in lagging regions,
and tackle more comprehensively fiscal performance at the lower municipal level.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
There is no direct poverty, gender or social impact on the population. Indirectly,
however, the project has contributed to better managed resource allocation through
strengthened public financial management in a number of sub-national districts
accounting for 59 percent of the national population, to improved processes and
information flows underlying the functioning of inter-governmental contacts, and to
institutionalization of a more orderly fiscal federalism.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

As previously covered, the project helped deepen institutional reform in terms of legal
framework, formal procedures, and actual practices as well as organizational capacity in
key public finance and budget units at the federal and regional levels. This was through


                                                13
training, changes in system wide budgeting and public financial management rules and
processes, exchanges of information and experiences, and a dynamic of reform
stimulating many regions to improve their public financial management using their own
resources.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Outcomes and impacts of the project exceeded those anticipated at project approval given
the mobilization of significant additional counterpart resources, the expanded focus on
budgetary reform, and over fulfillment of original and additional performance indicators.
Unintended outcomes and impacts include the creation of a demand at various levels of
government for public financial management reform, development of a small industry of
local consultant firms which are now competing for contracts (both domestically and
internationally), as well as a strengthened capacity (and comfort) within the Ministry of
Finance to design, develop, and manage the outsourcing of analytical work using both
domestic and foreign firms.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted specifically for
purposes of reviewing project performance.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

Government and non-government observers believe the new legal and operational
framework for federal budgeting and inter-government fiscal relations represents a
comprehensive and coherent structure which, despite inevitable refinements, will remain
the standard for the foreseeable future. Initiatives toward enhanced program budgeting,
increasing results tracking, shifts in funding sources or expenditure assignments among
levels of government, or changed incentives at the sub-national level would build on,
rather than replace, this structure. The continuing efforts of regions to improve their
performance and federal ratings, incentives and disincentives for performance
incorporated into the system, plus plans for a follow up operation reinforce confidence
that the achievements will be sustained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank‘s performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The Bank drew
on a long record of analytical work on decentralization both globally and in Russia. It
tapped into lessons from sub-national projects in the country in the design of the project‘s


                                              14
management structure. Its planned linkage of the project to a subsequent adjustment
operation (FFRFP) providing grant funding to competitively selected regions undertaking
fiscal reforms was insightful and innovative. Insightful as it provided notable incentives
for reform to regions—perhaps less for the amounts of money involved as for the
dynamic of regional competition and professional pride. Making the quick disbursing
resources grants rather than on-lent funds reduced complications for the regions and
reform effort. The process was an innovation in Russia and led to replication in several
sectors such as health and education.

The project reflected a well balanced approach—addressing the legal framework as well
as strengthening capacity at the federal and regional levels and improving the monitoring
of performance. This holistic view recognized the inter-connectedness of the component
parts and the value chain between federal laws and regional performance. The
subsequent extensions of the project and expansion into deeper reform in budgeting did
not reflect design flaws or implementation delays, but rather operational successes and
opportune decisions to build on the advances. The project, in providing a reform
championing counterpart team with a reliable source of international experience and
financial assistance, broadened the debate and policy options considered as Russia
designed and built its fiscal federalism structure.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank‘s supervision of the project was thorough and highly valued by counterparts.
From 2003 onward the task team leader was a field based Russian speaking fiscal
economist. He was supported by an adequate mixture of headquarters and local staff.
Until 2004, when the FFRFP closed, there was considerable overlap and synergy between
the project and the FFRFP teams, with joint supervision missions and aide memoires, full
integration of the operations, etc. All terms of references for contracts under the
operation (which totaled 94) were vetted by the Bank. All contracts were also subject to
prior Bank review. Fiduciary and safeguard standards were fully met. Country Directors,
Sector Managers, and team members recognized the high profile of the operation and its
importance to the Bank‘s interaction with the Finance Ministry and Government, and
provided high level attention to the operation. The control function was carried out both
by the Bank and by the client. According to all consultants interviewed, the client was
rigorous in demanding quality and insistent in seeking adjustments to products when it
deemed it necessary.

The 2004 QAG review of supervision quality found the operation ―a good example of a
well designed and implemented technical assistance project‖. The QAG panel thought it
―Likely‖ that project objectives would be attained. It noted that ―Supervision of the
operation was greatly helped by an efficient PIU, very good, high-level government
ownership and the operation of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG)‖. The
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes was rated as highly satisfactory, with the
focus on development effectiveness and the supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects
judged satisfactory. The panel felt that the realism and quality of project performance


                                                   15
reporting was moderately satisfactory because the outcome and monitoring indicators
focused on processes and outputs rather than outcomes. The region consistently differed
with the panel on this issue, viewing the project as a means to create inputs (from the TA
loan‘s point of view ―outputs‖) which contributed to ―outcomes‖ under the RFFRFR
adjustment operation.

There were internal discussions in the Bank about the merits of the latter loan extensions,
with some questioning whether it undermined the coherence of the investment project
mechanism or was unduly costly to the Bank in terms of administrative budgets given the
low disbursement rates. The long time needed to secure definition and agreement on
additional performance indicators was also a point of concern. The slow pace of loan
disbursements and extended time required to finalize an expanded list of performance
indicators led to implementation ratings of Moderately Satisfactory. On balance and in
retrospect, however, the value added by the Bank‘s presence to the government‘s
program, the high commitment of the authorities to a successful and important operation,
and their strong desire for continued partnership with the Bank in the project validates the
decisions to extend the project. During the years of almost no borrowing from the Bank,
extensions allowed the client to implement a new round of budget reforms and to
strengthen further capacity at the sub-national level. Once agreement was reached in
principle on a new operation (in turn reflecting increased scope for revived Bank lending
to Russia) which would continue the reform program, the Bank signaled its desire to
cease additional extensions and the loan was closed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project exceeded its original expectations. Its extension and expansion reflected the
government‘s appreciation of its importance and opportunities it helped create, the
soundness of its conceptual design, its solid supervision, and the quality and credibility
conferred by the Bank‘s presence. The additional co-financing resources provided by the
Government plus request for a follow-up operation are also tangible, market test,
measures of the Bank‘s overall performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The various government units involved in the project‘s design and execution performed
in a satisfactory manner. Project Development Objectives as well as original and added
intermediate results indicators and outcomes were met or exceeded. This achievement at
the federal level and in those reforming regions undertaking fiscal capacity building is
impressive, and reflects commitment and maturing capacity at all levels. The
coordination, positive responses from regional governments, and reinforcements through
a variety of incentives by the federal authorities demonstrated good collaboration and
shared vision. The determination of senior government officials as well as their deft
bureaucratic skills were noted by many observers.



                                            16
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Ministry of Finance performed in a highly satisfactory manner. PDOs were achieved,
the reach of the project expanded and deepened, and important precedents in terms of
competitive grant procedures to promote sub-national reforms or extensive use of
international experiences and consultant studies to inform policy decisions piloted. The
Ministry provided clear project leadership, strong ownership, and proactivity in
identifying and addressing emerging issues. The administration of the project by FER
was professional with the successful contracting of a multitude of studies, nearly flawless
fiduciary performance, substantive inputs, and close working relations with both the
client and Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The borrower successfully implemented a comprehensive and technically challenging
capacity building project at two levels of government. Targets were met or exceeded
with real and sustainable impacts on an important facet of public sector operations. The
advances serve as the foundation for further reforms in the remaining regions and
municipalities as well as structure for important improvements in public sector resource
allocation and efficiency improvements nation-wide. These systemic reforms and
capacity improvements do not guarantee improved outcomes for citizens, but better
service delivery would be impossible without them.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Strong ownership of public sector reform programs is a sina qua non for success.
Commitment and shared vision are salient for all Bank projects. But operations which
seek to change policies, procedures, incentives across a country‘s public sector, and
sometimes touch the core of a nation‘s political economy, require a higher threshold of
counterpart understanding, dedication, and leadership. The steadfast support of key
officials within the Finance Ministry across a 14 year period from project preparation to
loan closure is impressive. The rarity of such sustained commitment or stability in
counterpart champions attests to its value in this case. Bank operations in public sector
reform too often rest on the narrow shoulders of reform champions whose admirable
willingness to undertake worthy efforts can also suggest vulnerability and short tenure.
The Bank team also sought to assure in preparation that the project enjoyed high level
support and designed a governance structure to involve and inform key stakeholders.

Multiple benefits from marshalling global expertise both for the analytical
foundations of the project and credibility with client. The extensive analytical work
used to design the project and accompanying FFRFP reflected an understanding of the
various key deficiencies in the legal framework, federal monitoring, capacity weaknesses,
and gaps in sector knowledge. The intellectual breadth of the Bank team, access to the


                                           17
best international practice and experts, and commitment to policy dialog continued into
execution. This Bank succeeded in bringing together a superior team of experts which
was the only route to gain credibility with a Middle Income Country which while
challenged by its current practices, was certainly sophisticated in realizing the wealth of
international experience and options to tap that experience through the private sector
directly or through other institutions.

Synergies and incentives from quick disbursing operations parallel to technical
assistance operations magnify project impact. The twin stars of the RFTAP and
FFRFP provided significant synergy during the first years of the project in terms of the
analytical foundation for reforms, incentives to regions, higher profile within the
government for the reform program, demonstration of Bank commitment and confidence
in the reform effort, and as a model for subsequent combinations of technical
assistance/grant funding reform operations. The overlap in team memberships, on both
sides, permitted seamless decision making on the two operations.

Value of multi-year partnership with committed clients. The Bank and Finance
Ministry have become strong partners in the area of fiscal federalism and broader PFM
reform over the 11 years of the operation. There appears to be a level of confidence and
goodwill on both sides which facilitates open dialogue. The various extensions of the
project, whatever the valid questions regarding the role and length of investment projects,
or costs to the Bank‘s administrative budget, reflected a level of commitment by the Bank
to a well performing project and a serious client which should not be discounted. The
multi-year project helped the client to conduct deep and thorough reforms of PFM and
intergovernmental fiscal relations, to transform those systems into the modern ones. The
Bank‘s ability to contribute to this economic and social development of this partner can
only have been enhanced by the Bank‘s record in staying the course and showing
flexibility by adhering to its highest goals in bringing the best it could offer to this client.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Relevant changes of numbers have been made in the ICR with respect to the comments
on a number of Russian regions in the 1990-ies and total Project Management costs.

The final name of the follow up operation is still under discussion due to an increase in
the project scope, that is why the name of the operation in the text could be treated as a
tentative.

Recurrent Costs of participating regions were provided in-kind. For reasons of accuracy
only cash contributions by the federal government have been disclosed in the financial
section of this report.

Project performance indicator ―Regional Borrowings and Debt Servicing Profiles
Improved‖ consists both of qualitative and quantitative measures. Improvements with
respect to qualitative changes have been highlighted in explanations of the rating. On the



                                              18
other hand quantitative measures did not improve. That is why the rating remained at
―Partially Achieved‖ level.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

No consultations were conducted with NGOs/private sector/civil society during project
preparation or implementation.




                                           19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 1

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                       Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 STRENGTHENING FEDERAL
                                         2.2               17.92                               814
LEGISLATION
 STRENGTHENING FEDERAL
                                         8.1               11.69                               144
MONITORING CAPACITY
 ASSISTANCE TO SUB-
                                         9.4               28.66                               304
NATIONAL GOVERNMENTS
 SECTORAL PUBLIC
                                         2.2                3.10                               141
EXPENDITURE REVIEWS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       6.8                8.08                               119
            Total Baseline Cost         28.7               69.45                               242
Taxes
                                                  4.3
Recurrent Costs                                                           0.43
Price Contingencies
                                                  2.9                     0.00
             Total Project Costs                 35.9                    69.89
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.0                     0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.3                     0.30
     Total Financing Required                    36.2                    70.19                 193




1
  Given discrepancies relating to price contingencies, taxes and component costs in the text and tables of
the original Technical Annex, it has not been possible to replicate some of cost estimates. As a result the
costs at Appraisal are based on Table 3.1 of the Technical Annex, with so called operating costs attributed
to Project Management and goods split two thirds/one third between Components 2 and 3. Figures for
actual costs are based on project financial statements and categories.




                                                    20
(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                 6.2       41.58        670
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          30        28.61         95
and Development




                                               21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Output Indicators

(Twelve ―Performance and Monitoring Indicators‖ were listed in an attachment to the
Technical Annex but not identified as PDO or Intermediate Results Indicators (the
latter were not in use by the Bank at the time of loan approval). All are addressed
below. Six of the twelve indicators tracked in ISRs beginning in 2005 (five of which
were deemed PDO indicators) are noted with an asterisk. New indicators added in
2008 are noted with two asterisks.)

    A. Strengthening Federal and Regional Fiscal Legislation
Indicator/Target:        Achieved: Main laws and legal amendments on expenditure
Laws and legal           assignments were completed by 12/31/2006 with the drafting
amendments on            and subsequent approval of :
expenditure assignments        Federal Law No. 258-FZ (December 29, 2006) ―On
completed.*                      introduction of amendments to certain legislative acts
                                 of the Russian Federation, in the context of
                                 modernization of authority delimitation.‖
                               Federal Law No. 122-FZ (August 22, 2004) ―On
                                 introduction of amendments to certain legislative acts
                                 of the Russian Federation and on certain legislative
                                 acts of the Russian Federation, deemed to have lost
                                 force, with regard to adoption of Federal Laws (i) ―On
                                 amendments to Federal Law, (ii) ―On common
                                 principles     of     organization     of      legislative
                                 (representative) and executive public bodies of the RF
                                 subjects‖, and (iii) ―On common principles of
                                 organization of local government in the Russian
                                 Federation‖
                               Federal Law No. 83-FZ (May 8, 2010) ―On
                                 Introduction of Amendments to Certain Legislative
                                 Acts of the Russian Federation in Connection with
                                 Improved Legal Status of State (Municipal)
                                 Institution‖ was drafted with project support.
Indicator/Target: Laws Achieved: Laws and legal amendments on unfunded mandates
and legal amendments     were drafted mostly in 2001, including:
on unfunded mandates           Draft Law ―On amendments to Federal Law ―On
drafted                          public guarantees and compensations for individuals,
                                 working and living in Far North regions and regions,
                                 assimilated to them‖.
                               Draft Law ―On amendments to Federal Law ―On
                                 veterans‖.
                               Draft Law ―On amendments to the RF legislative acts
                                 on issues of remuneration for employees of budget
                                 sphere organizations‖.


                                            22
                                Draft Federal Law ―On common principles of
                                 organization of local government in the Russian
                                 Federation‖ in the part of financial provision of local
                                 government.
                                Federal Law of October 6, 2003 No. 131-FZ ―On
                                 common principles of organization of local
                                 government in the Russian Federation‖.
                                Federal Law of August 22, 2004 No. 122-FZ ―On
                                 introduction of amendments to certain legislative acts
                                 of the Russian Federation and on certain legislative
                                 acts of the Russian Federation, deemed to have lost
                                 force, with regard to adoption of Federal Laws (i) ―On
                                 amendments to Federal Law, (ii) ―On common
                                 principles of organization of legislative
                                 (representative) and executive public bodies of the RF
                                 subjects‖ and (iii) ―On common principles of
                                 organization of local government in the Russian
                                 Federation‖.

Indicator/Target: Laws Achieved: Laws and legal amendments on budget reporting
on reporting, budgeting were drafted in 2004 and legislation was approved by
and budget management December 2005:
drafted                      Order of the RF Ministry of Finance of 24.02.05 No.
                                26N ―On adoption of Methodical recommendations on
                                introduction of budget accounting instruction,
                                approved by the order of the RF Ministry of Finance‖;
                             Order of the RF Ministry of Finance of 21.12.05 No.
                                152N ―On adoption of recommendations on usage of
                                budget classification of the Russian Federation‖.
                        Laws and legal amendments on budgeting and budget
                        management were drafted mostly in 2008-2009 and
                        regulations issued by October 2009:
                          RF Government decrees of December 29, 2008 No. 1065
                           ―On formation and financial provision of execution of
                           public assignment by federal executive bodies and federal
                           public institutions‖.
                          Circular letter of the RF MOF dated 04.07.2008 No.02-02-
                           05/1959 ―On methodical recommendations on formation of
                           expenditure liabilities‘ planning registries of budget
                           planning subjects and public non-budget funds of the
                           Russian Federation for 2009 and planned period of 2010
                           and 2011‖;
                          Circular letter of the RF MOF dated 11.09.2009 No. 02-09-
                           01/4389 ―On expenditure liabilities‘ planning registries and
                           rationalization of budget provisions of chief administrators
                           of federal budget funds for 2010‖;


                                          23
                          Circular letter of the RF MOF dated 01.10.2009 г. No. 02-
                           09-01/4670 ―On methodical recommendations on formation
                           of expenditure liabilities‘ planning registries of chief
                           administrators of federal budget funds for 2010 and planned
                           period of 2011 and 2012, methodical recommendations on
                           formation of rationalization of budget provisions of chief
                           administrators of federal budget funds for 2010 and planned
                           period of 2011 and 2012‖.
Indicator/Target:       Achieved: Model laws on capital and multi-year budgeting
Model laws on capital   were drafted mostly by 12/30/2005 and legislation updated
and multi-year          subsequently (Federal Law of 24.11.2008 N 204-FZ (ed. of
budgeting drafted.*     02.12.2009) "On federal budget for 2009 and planned period
                        of 2010-2011? ).. Multi-year budgeting began in RF in FY
                        2008. A revised capital budget system was initiated in FY
                        2008.

                        For regional and municipal levels the project supported the
                        development of:
                            Concept of medium-term financial planning in
                               subordinate Russian Federation regions/entities;
                            The resulting legislation regulating issues of the
                               budget process;
                            Methodical recommendations on medium-term
                               financial planning
                            Decrees on development, adoption, execution and
                               monitoring of long-range financial plan of Russian
                               Federation regions/entities for N – (N+2) years with
                               annexes
                            Legal acts regulating the common order of interactions
                               of financial body‘s units on development, execution
                               and monitoring of execution of medium-term financial
                               planning with annex: ―List of data and indicators,
                               necessary for development of long-range financial plan
                               for N – (N+2) years‖.
                        Examples of laws introduced:

                        Vologda Region Law of February 27, 2005 No. 1230-OZ ―On
                        amendments to Vologda Region Law ―On the budget process
                        in Vologda Region‖.
                        The Chuvash Republic Cabinet of Ministers decrees of
                        February 25, 2005 No. 42 ―On adoption of Order of
                        formation, review, adoption and execution of long-range
                        financial plan of the Chuvash Republic‖.
                        Decree of Governor of Chelyabinsk Region dated 25.02.2005
                        No. 64 ―On amendments to Decree of Governor of
                        Chelyabinsk Region dated 28.12.2004 No. 691 ―On adoption


                                        24
                          of order of formation of long-range (medium-term) financial
                          plan of Chelyabinsk Region‖.
                          In all three indicated regions the long-range financial plan was
                          firstly adopted by decrees of the subjects‘ executive bodies
                          before the beginning of the financial year (in Vologda Region
                          – by Government Decree dated October 15, 2004 No. 950, in
                          Chelyabinsk Region – by Governor‘s Decree of 28.12.2004
                          No. 691, in the Chuvash Republic – by Decree of Cabinet of
                          Ministers dated 30.09.2004 No. 235).
Indicator/target:         Achieved: Model laws on budget audits were drafted by
Model laws on budget      November 2009 (RFTAP1.22) and were approved by
audits drafted            February 2010.
                                Section IХ ―Public and municipal financial control‖ of
                                   the Budget Code of the Russian Federation (edition of
                                   October 2009)
                                Section 9 ―Development of public (municipal)
                                   financial control system‖ of Program on enhancing of
                                   budget expenditures effectiveness for the period up to
                                   2012,
                                Action plan for realization of Program on enhancing of
                                   budget expenditures effectiveness for the period up to
                                   2012 (para 27 ―Adoption of order of internal control
                                   execution in federal executive bodies‖).

                          Earlier in 2008 for regional and municipal levels were
                          formulated (RFTAP3.7):
                              List of sub-systems of finance management system and
                                  procedures, connected with them, which need research
                                  during audit (independent expert evaluation) of public
                                  and municipal finance;
                              Key criteria and indicators for usage during audit of
                                  public and municipal finance;
                              Model (standard) and expanded programs of audit of
                                  public and municipal finance;
                              Methodic of evaluation of budget expenditure
                                  effectiveness (education, healthcare, social policy);
                              Order of organization and implementation of budget
                                  audit, requirements to auditors, authorities of auditors.

   B. Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity: Fiscal Monitoring Division and the
      PIU for the RFTAP

Indicator/Target:         Achieved: Computerized information network was designed
Computerized              and developed shortly after project effectiveness and fully
information network for   installed by August 2001. Subsequent upgrades, supported by
fiscal monitoring in      the project, have improved capacity as modules and


                                           25
place.*                   information requirements are added.
Indicator/Target:         Achieved: An inventory of all expenditure assignments to
Inventories of            regional entities was completed by May 2001 and has been
expenditure assignments   regularly updated and kept current since.
completed.*
Indicator/Target:         Achieved: Beginning in 2001 the MOF in cooperation with the
MOF performs              Federal Treasury began monitoring all overdue payables of all
quarterly monitoring of   regions on a monthly basis and produced monthly reports
overdue accounts          published on the internet. The results are available at
payable of the Russian    http://info.minfin.ru/isprf.php
regions.**
Indicator/Target:         Achieved: Non-systematic monitoring of regional debt,
Monitoring of debt of     including borrowings from international financial institutions
the Russian regions,      without sovereign guarantee began in 2003. Beginning May
including borrowings      2007 monitoring became systematic and is performed by the
from international        MOF on a monthly basis. The results are published on the
financial institutions    internet at http://www1.minfin.ru/ru/public_debt/subdbt/
without sovereign
guarantee, is performed
by the MOF on an
annual basis.**

   C. Assistance to Sub-National Governments in Accounting and Budgeting

Indicator/Target:         Achieved: Treasury principles of budget execution were
Treasury principles of    instituted by July 31, 2002 in all regions participating in the
budget execution          Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, which also received technical
implemented.*             support from the project
Indicator/Target:         Achieved: as of 08/31/2007 in participating regions Code of
Regional compliance       Good Practice were introduced. A program on dissemination
with clauses of Code of   of information on results of this introduction among the RF
Good Practice improved    subject entities was implemented by the project.
Indicator/Target:         Achieved:
Computerized systems,     As of 12\31\2003 computerized systems were introduced in
in particular financial   project participating regions, which allowed a switch to the
reporting, installed      treasury principle of budget execution.
                          As of 12/31/2005 a model operation of medium-term financial
                          planning (including special software to calculate medium-term
                          financial plan) was introduced in participating regions.
                          As of 12/01/2009 an automated system in the MOF of
                          financial management quality evaluation of chief executives
                          implementing the federal budget was introduced.
                          As of 12/01/2009 a system of collection and processing of
                          data on execution of budgets of the RF subjects was
                          introduced.
Indicator/Target:         Partially Achieved: In project participating regions a formal


                                           26
Regional borrowing and    method of planning and managing direct and indirect
debt servicing profiles   liabilities was introduced by 03/31/2006. It was connected
improved                  with systems of financial planning and investment activities
                          (for example, a loan cap began to be defined by calculation of
                          ―debt capacity‖).
                              Corresponding normative legal acts included:
                              Government Decree of Vologda Region dated 04.10.04
                                  No. 927 ―Concept reforming of debt management
                                  system in Vologda Region‖
                              Government Decree of Vologda Region dated 15.10.04
                                  № 951 ―On modernization of public debt management
                                  in Vologda Region‖, ―Clause on execution of register of
                                  debt liabilities and credit debt of Vologda Region,
                                  enterprises and organizations, in which the share of
                                  Vologda Region is more than 50 percent of capital
                                  stock‖
                              Concept of public debt management in Chelyabinsk
                                  Region (adopted by Decree of Governor of Chelyabinsk
                                  Region dated 25.02.2005 No 66)
                              Concept of public debt management in the Chuvash
                                  Republic ( adopted by Decree of Cabinet of Ministers of
                                  the Chuvash Republic dated 25.02.2005 No. 41)
                              Edict of the Minister of Finance of the Chuvash
                                  Republic dated 25.02.2005 No.64/P ―On adoption of
                                  Order on regulation of overdue payment on the
                                  Chuvash Republic debt liabilities and overdue credit
                                  debt of public organizations in the Chuvash Republic‖

                          Debt stock to total revenue ratio (as of January 1, 2002 in
                          comparison to January 1, 2011) increased for these three
                          participating regions: Vologda Region- from 42.6% to 51.3%,
                          Chelyabinsk Region- from 0% (no debt at all) to 12.1%, and
                          Chuvash Republic- from 20.7% to 36.7%. These levels are
                          judged acceptable by the MOF. And for the Chelyabinsk
                          regions debt has now become a modest policy tool.

                          On 29.12.2006 ―Methodical recommendations on public and
                          municipal debt management for the RF subjects and municipal
                          organizations‖ were published on the official web-site of the
                          RF MOF.
                          Regional and municipal debt management as a whole has
                          switched from mostly non-market forms of deficit financing
                          (budgetary loans) to mostly market forms (funded loans),with
                          increased duration of debt liabilities of participating regions
                          from one year to more than three years with decreased real
                          percent rates.


                                          27
Indicator/target:           Achieved: Formula based equalization transfers were
Formula-based               instituted by July 31, 2002 for all regions participating in the
equalization transfers      Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, which also received technical
designed.*                  support from the project. Subsequently the use of formula
                            based transfers was expanded nationwide and 90 percent of
                            equalization transfers to regions were based on a formula as of
                            end 2006. That figure reached 98 percent of transfers by
                            December 31, 2009.
Indicator/target:           Over Achieved: As of December 2009 the allocation of
Allocation of transfers,    transfers, subsidies, and subventions from the budgets of all
subsidies, and              Russian regions (100%) is based on approved methodologies.
subventions from the        These methodologies are based in legislation and federal
budgets of at least 60      norms developed in significant part with project support.
Russian regions is based    In participating regions this condition was completed by
on approved                 07\31\2002
methodologies. **
Indicator/target: In at     Over Achieved: As of December 2009 revenue assignments
least 70 Russian regions    and expenditure responsibilities are made according to the
revenue assignments         relevant federal legislation in all (100%) regions.
and expenditure
responsibilities are made
according to the relevant
federal legislation. **
Indicator/target: Debt      Over Achieved: As of December 2009 the debt stock of 96
stock in at least 90        percent of Russian regions was in compliance with the Budget
percent of the Russian      Code caps. By December 2010 the RF Budget Code
regions is in compliance    requirements on public debt ceilings and cap of expenditures
with the Budget Code        on public debt service of the RF subject were achieved in 100
caps. **                    percent of regions.
Indicator/target:           Over Achieved: As of December 2009 65% of regions (54
Number of regions,          regions plus 20 municipalities) have received federal grants
which received federal      from the Regional and Municipal Fiscal Reform Fund. The
grants from the             Fund was closed in 2010. The MOF has created a new fund to
Regional and Municipal      promote regional programs to increase budget efficiency on
Fiscal Reform Fund          the similar principles.
(managed by the MOF)
during years of its
operations, is not less
than 25% of total
number of regions. **

   D. Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews

   No specific intermediate results indicators were established, but a series of public
   expenditure reviews and sectoral studies carried out by April 2004 supported
   achievements within the other components. The studies included:


                                            28
   Public expenditure review of housing and utilities (RFTAP/QCBS/4.1) was
    completed by January, 2002.
   Public expenditure review of education (RFTAP/QCBS/4.2) was completed by
    December, 2001.
   Public expenditure review of health (RFTAP/QCBS/4.3) was completed by
    December, 2001.
   Public expenditure review of culture and recreation (RFTAP/QCBS/4.4) was
    completed by July, 2003.
   Public expenditure review of public transportation (RFTAP/QCBS/4.5) was
    completed by July, 2003.
   Public expenditure review of national economy (RFTAP/QCBS/4.6) was
    completed by April, 2004.
   Public expenditure review of law enforcement (RFTAP/QCBS/4.7) was
    conducted by July, 2003.
   Public expenditure review of regional and municipal governance
    (RFTAP/QCBS/4.8) was completed by July, 2003.
   Diagnostic review of the regional fiscal health and quality of fiscal management
    in the Novosibirsk Oblast (RFTAP/QCBS/4.9‖) was conducted by July, 2003.




                                      29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N.A. As an institution-building project, quantitative computations of economic and
financial rates of return are not applicable nor estimated at appraisal.




                                          30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                                                                      Program Team
Lawrence Hannah           Senior Economist
                                                                      Leader
Stepan Titov              Economist                             ECSPE Task Team Leader
Eugene Gurenko            Economist                                   Task Team Leader
Douglas Sumerfield        Operations Officer                          Team Member
Maria Shkaratan           Economist                                   Team Member
Benoit Bosquet            Young Professional                          Team Member
Helena Makarenko          Team Assistant                              Team Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Stepan Titov              Senior Economist                      ECSPE Task Team Leader
                                                                      Procurement
Olga Gubareva             Procurement Assistant
                                                                      Assistant
Alexander Balakov         Procurement Specialist                      Procurement
Alexander Rukavishnikov   Procurement Specialist                      Procurement
                                                                      Financial
Galina S. Kuznetsova      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
                                                                      Management




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                   212.47
  FY00                                            69                     138.64
  FY01                                                                     0.12
  FY02                                                                     0.00
  FY03                                                                     0.66
  FY04                                                                     0.00
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                          Total:                  69                     351.89
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                     0.00
  FY00                                            35                      77.09
  FY01                                            48                     120.29


                                             31
FY02              30    81.80
FY03              18    74.64
FY04              28    41.23
FY05              29    45.80
FY06              24    39.32
FY07              31    59.47
FY08              37    79.28
FY09              36    98.86
FY10              26    65.02
FY11              27    68.04
FY12               8    45.31
       Total:    377   896.15




                32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N.A. No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                        33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N.A. No stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                       34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following translation of the Letter from the Ministry of Finance (by Deputy
Finance Minister Mr. Alexei Lavrov) represents comments by the Borrower on the
Draft ICR (the original letter in Russian is available upon request).
In general, the Ministry of Finance totally supports the key conclusions and assessments
made by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the
Implementation Completion Report on the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project.
However, we find it necessary to make some minor clarifying amendments as follows:


   1. Page 1: To amend Section 1.1 Context at Appraisal by changing the number of
      Russian regions from 83 to 89 to reflect the actual number of regions in the 1990s.
      Merger of regions that reduced their number to 83 by 2011 took place after the
      effectiveness of the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project.
   2. Page 9: To change the name of the follow-up MOF/IBRD project from the Public
      Finance and Financial Sector Modernization Loan to the Public Finance System
      Enhancement Project as the proposed project scope has increased to include
      various fiscal policy activities while financial sector development issues have
      been separated to form a self-standing project.
   3. Page 18: Table Project Costs and Financing: actual amount allocated for Project
      Management is given as $8.09 million. According to the Russian counterparts,
      total costs financed under that category during the Project lifecycle amounted to
      $8.08 million.
   4. Page 18: Table Project Costs and Financing includes Recurrent Costs. However,
      the amount specified in the Table reflects only MOF‘s costs leaving out Recurrent
      Costs incurred by the participating regions which amounted to $3,482 million.
   5. Page 24: MOF finds it necessary to amend Project performance indicator
      Regional Borrowings and Debt Servicing Profiles Improved and replace the
      proposed indicator rating at Project completion from ‗Partially Achieved‘ to
      ‗Achieved‘. This can be justified not only by the institutional framework for
      managing regional borrowings and debt which radically improved at large and
      especially in the participating regions during and due to Project implementation
      but also by the qualitative parameters of the debt market in the participating
      regions which improved as follows: duration increased from 1 to 3 years; interest
      rates decreased 1.5-2 times; and the share of market instruments in the debt
      structure went up (the share of borrowings from the private sector increased, inter
      alia, via securities issue). Based on the above, it would be reasonable conclude
      that the target performance indicator in question was fully achieved.




                                          35
The following translation of the Letter from the Ministry of Finance represents the
summary of the Borrower’s ICR (both original letter and Borrower’s ICR in
Russian are available upon request).

   Further to the Implementation Completion Report on the Regional Fiscal Technical
Assistance Project submitted to the Ministry of Finance for review, I am sending you a
proposed summary of the key Project results to be included in the ICR.

   The Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project played a key role in reforming the
public finance management system in Russia in 2000-2011. It allowed achieving relevant
and essential results in the following areas:
    A reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations, a municipal reform, and
        establishment of a local budget system in general;
    Transition to mid-term budgeting at the federal, regional and local levels;
    Development of a regulatory and methodological framework for and
        implementation of performance-based budgeting, including a programmatic
        budget;
    Introducing internal audit and performance evaluation of public expenditures;
    Development and implementation of a budget network reform, including
        introduction of new organizational forms of public and municipal entities and
        institutions;
    Improving the types and methods of statistical observation in the public sector;
    Transition to using customer satisfaction indicators to assess performance of
        public institutions and entities and improve overall transparency and
        accountability of the public administration sector;
    Significant improvement of the quality of financial management by public
        authorities and public administration entities at all levels of government;
    Introduction of innovative methods to promote public sector reforms by
        developing subsidy allocation rules based on reform performance;
    Preparation of recommendations on how to improve the efficiency of sector-
        specific expenditures at all levels of government;
    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Finance in: public
        sector management; budget preparation and execution; monitoring of the quality
        of financial management by the Chief Budget Administrators; and methodological
        support of the budget process;
    Professional development and retraining of the staff of regional financial
        authorities, local authorities, and financial departments of federal ministries and
        agencies;
    Development of recommendations and consistent support of budget reforms in
        general, and significant improvement of the regulatory legal framework for a wide
        range of fiscal policy issues; and
    Preparation and dissemination of a best practice code as a body of guidelines on
        specific technologies and blocks of the public finance management system based
        on international best practice.




                                           36
      The Project had a strong impact on the financial authorities‘ training system and
education program content. The Project not only fundamentally improved the quality of
financial policy in the public administration sector (inter alia, through large-scale best
practice dissemination and professional development of financial department staff) but
also laid the foundation for further sustainable improvement of fiscal policy mechanisms
due to both creation of a competitive environment in best fiscal decision making and
establishment of an advisory service market which provides federal, regional and
municipal authorities with new guidelines based on international and best local experience.




                                           37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A. No co-financiers or other partners.




                                           38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President—Regional Fiscal Technical
Assistance Loan, World Bank, November 30, 1999
Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Development Loan Agreement Project
Summary Reports (PSR) 2003-2004
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR) 2005-2011
Aide Memoires
Russia Country Partnership Strategy
Russia Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report,
Quality of Supervision Assessment, Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Loan, QAG,
September 3, 2004
Implementation Completion Report, Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Project,
World Bank, January 4, 2006
Decentralization in Regional Fiscal Systems in Russia: Trends and Links to Economic
Performance, Freinkman and Yossifov, World Bank, 1999
Intergovernmental Reforms in the Russian Federation, One Step Forward, Two Steps
Back?, De Silva, Kurlyandskaya, Andreeva, Golovanova, World Bank, 2009

Persons Interviewed for ICR

World Bank
Pedro Alba                  Russia Country Director
Stepan A Titov              RFTAP Task Team Leader
Galina Kouznetsova          Financial Management Specialist, RFTAP Team
Alexander Balakov           Procurement Specialist, RFTAP Team
Marsha Olive                Country Manager, Tajikistan, Former Country Program
                            Officer, Russia Department

Government of Russia
Alexei Lavrov               Deputy Minister of Finance, MOF
Larisa Yeroshkina           Director of Inter-budgetary Relations Department, MOF
Ekaterina Dmitrieva         Head of International Finance Relations Division, MOF
Mstislav Korolkov           General Director, FER
Vladislav Onischenko        Deputy Director of the Project, FER

Research Institutes/Consulting Firms
Artyom Barakhovsky          Director, Research Budgetary Center,
Ekaterina Vaksova           Deputy Director, Research Budgetary Center,
Irina Starodubrovskaya      Gaidar‘s Institute
Galina Kurlyandskaya        Director, Center for Fiscal Policy




                                         39
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.               70°N                                 80°N                                                                                                                        80°N                                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                A RCT IC                                                 O CEA N
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bering St
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ra
                                                                          Nor wegian Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°N
              NETH.                              NORWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra
                              DENMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                B a r e n t s         Franz Josef                                                                                                                                                                      da
                                                             SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                 East Siberian                                An
           GERMANY                                                                                                 S e a                    Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                      Anadyr
                                                                                                                                                                    Severnaya                                                               New Siberia
                                                                                                                                                                       Zemlya                                                                 Islands
                                                                                                     Murmansk              Novaya
                                      RUSSIAN                         FINLAND
                                        FED.                                                                               Zemlya
                        Kaliningrad                                                               Kola                                                                                                                       Laptev
                                                           ESTONIA                                Pen.                                         Kara          Sea                                                              Sea
                                                  LATVIA




                   POLAND
                                         LITH.




                                                                                   Karelia
                                                                                                                                                                                                            la
                                                                                                                                                                                                   insu                                                                     In
                                                                        St. Petersburg                                                                                                       Pen                                                                                 di




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolyma
                                                            Pskov                                                                                                                   m   yr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ange
                                                                                                                                                                                Tay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g irka
                                                                                 Petrozavodsk Arkhangel'sk
                                                                    Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                     Che
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rskiy
                                  BELARUS                                                                           Nar'yan Mar                                                                                                                                                   Ran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolmya R
                                                                                                                                            Yamal                                                           ga                                                                             ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                         wland




                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
                                                       Smolensk Tver                                                                         Pen.                                                  at                        Lo
                                                                               Vologda                                                               Gyda                                     Kh             Siberian
                                                            MOSCOWYaroslavl          Kotlas                                       Vorkuta            Pen.
                                        Bryansk Kaluga
                         UKRAINE                                                                             s.
                                                                     Kostroma                                                      Salekhard
                                         Orel                      Ivanovo                  Syktyvkar                     Ob




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Le
                                                                                                                t
                                                 Tula          Vladimir




                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             na
                                   Kursk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Magadan
                                                         Ryazan       Nizhny Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Petropavlovsk-


                                                                                                             al
                             Belgorod       Lipetsk
                                                                                   Kirov                                                                                                                Central                                                                                                                                      Kamchatskiy
                                                                                                         Ur
                                    Voronezh                Cheboksary      Yoshkar-Ola
                                                Tambov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Okhotsk
                                                                 Saransk Kazan'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea of
                                                      Penza                       Izhevsk                                                                                                           Siberian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yakutsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Range
                                                                                            Perm'                           Khanty-
            Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                          Ul'yanovsk
                                                                                                                            Mansiysk                                                                                                                                                                                          Okhotsk
                                  Rostov-
             Sea                  on-Don                R. Saratov                                                                          Wes
                                                                                                                                            We s t                                                      Plateau                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dzhur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Len




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        en
                Krasnodar                                              Samara       Ufa          Yekaterinburg                                                                                                                                                              d
                   Maykop
                                                 Volgograd                                                                                                                                                                                                             Al
                             Stavropol                                                                    Tyumen                      Si r
                                                                                                                                      S i b eO i a n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dzhug
                                                                                        Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                 b




                                                                                                                                                                       Ye n
                                        Elista                            Orenburg                      l
              Gora El'brus    Cherkessk                                                              bo
                                                                                                   To Kurgan                                Pla
                                                                                                                                            Plain




                                                                                                                                                                            i
               (5,633 m)




                                                                                                                                                                         sey
                              Nal'chik          Astrakhan r a
                                                                    l




                                                                                                                                                                                        Angara
                                                              U




                   Vladikavkaz Nazran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                       Omsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Am
                   GEORGIA             Groznyy                                                                                                       Tomsk
                                          Makhachkala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yuzhno-
                                             Sea




                                                                                                                                   Novosibirsk              Kemerovo            Krasnoyarsk                                                                                                                                                           Sakhalinsk

                    AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                       Novokuznetsk                                                                   Lake
                                         ian




                                                                                                                                       Barnaul                                                                                                                   Blagoveshchensk                                       Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                        Abakan                                                     Baikal                                                       Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ust' Ordynskiy
                                       sp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chita
                                                                                                K A Z A K H S TA N
                                      Ca




                                                               UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                   Irkutsk          Ulan Ude




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    li n
                                                                                                                                                      Gorno-                                                                                   Aginskoye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ote-A
                                                                                                                                                      Altaysk                    Kyzyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40
                      RUSS I A N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sikh
                    FEDER AT I O N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vladivostok

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea of
                        OBLAST CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA
                        FEDERAL CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D.P.R.                                               J A PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KOREA
                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP.
                                                                                                                                                                0      200       400 600 Kilometers                                                                                                               OF
                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KOREA
                                                                                                               RUSSIAN
                        RAILROADS                                                                            FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33470R2
                                                                                                                                                                0           200              400                 600 Miles                                                                                                                                            °N
                        OBLAST, KRAI, REPUBLIC, AUTONOMOUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                        OBLAST, OR AUTONOMOUS OKRUG
MAY 2009




                        BOUNDARIES
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     90°E                                      100°E                                        110°E                                           120°E                                                     130°E
