Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3743-HU
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$90 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL OIL AND GAS TRUST
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
PETROLEUM PROJECT
March 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983        December 1983
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
US$1             =       Ft  43                Ft 45
Ft I                     US$o.023             US$o.022
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA             =       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ERR              =       Economic rate of return
EOR              =       Enhanced Oil Recovery
ICB             =        International Competitive Bidding
LIB              =       Limited International Bidding
MTOE             =       Million tons of oil equivalent
OKGT             =       National Oil and Gas Trust
TOE                      Tons of oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
PETROLEUM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          National Oil and Gas Trust (OKGT)
Guarantor:         Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:            US$90 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The main objective of the project is to support the
Government's strategy for the development of the petroleum
sector, which is aimed at arresting the decline in domestic
oil and gas production through a series of priority
investments in exploration, field development and
rehabilitation and enhanced oil recovery. The project would
also assist in strengthening OKGT's capabilities in the
overall management of the petroleum sector. The project
consists of: (a) an exploration component including
exploratory deep well drilling; (b) an enhanced oil recovery
component including four pilot tests and a semi-commercial
field demonstration; (c) rehabilitation of one, and
development of two gas fields; and (d) technical assistance
and training.
Project Benefits
and Risks          The only project component with certain revenue producing
capability is the gas field development and rehabilitation
component. It would yield estimated cumulative net foreign
exchange savings of about $3.9 billion or $205 million
average per year for about 19 years, the estimated
productive life of this component. The extent of
quantitative benefits to be derived from the exploration and
enhanced oil recovery (EOR) components can only be estimated
statistically (lue to the wide range and uncertainty of the
results. On the basis of statistical exploration risk
analysis there is a high probability of discovering about
14 million tons of oil equivalent. With respect to the EOR
component, only one field is being operated on a
semi-commercial scale and if expected results are attained
it could provide about $195 million in net foreign exchange
savings over its 16 year estimated productive life or $12
million per annum on average. Non-quantifiable benefits of
the project are equally important in that they would
strengthen the country's capability in more fully exploiting
its petroleum resources and further improving the efficiency
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
of its petroleum industry. The main risks of the project
are the geological and technical risks inherent in all
petroleum exploration and development projects which can be
substantial. Adequate safeguards have been designed into
the project which make these risks acceptable in normal
industry practice.
Estimated Costs:                                         US $ Million 
Local    Foreign      Total
Exploration                                   50.6       92.9      143.5
Enhanced Oil Recovery                         33.8       24.4       58.2
Gas Field Development and Rehabilitation   63.2          35.5       98.7
Technical Assistance and Training              2.2        5.2         7.4
Base Cost                                 149.8     158.0       307.8
Physical Contingencies                        25.8       26.9       52.7
Price Contingencies                           38.5       40.0        78.5
Total Project Cost                        214.1 1/  224.9       439.0
Interest During Construction                  62.0      18.5        80.5
Front-end Fee                                   -         0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required                  276.1     243.6       519.7
1/ Including $18.3 million in custom duties.
Finanacing Plan:                                 --------US $ Million ------
Local    Foreign      Total
IBRD                                           -        90.0        90.0
OKGT                                         208.0        -        208.0
Government                                    68.1      153.6      221.7
Total                                     276.1     243.6       519.7
Esti_ated Disbursements:
IBRD FY              1985       1986      1987       1988        1989
Annual               27.0       40.0       12.7        8.9         1.4
Cumulative           27.0       67.0       79.7      88.6        90.0
Rate of Return:       About 149% for gas field development and
rehabilitation; not applicable for other project
components.
Appraisal Report:    No. 4896-HIU dated March 5, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL OIL AND GAS TRUST
FOR A PETROLEUM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Oil and Gas Trust (OKGT) with the guarantee of the Hungarian
People's Republic for the equivalent of US$90 million (including the
capitalized front-end fee of $0.22 million) to help finance a project for
petroleum development. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. OKGT would pay to the
Guarantor an interest equalization fee of 10% of the Bank rate per annum on
the outstanding amount of the Bank loan. Cofinancing from commercial lending
institutions of between $200-$300 million is being sought in conjunction with
the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project, also being considered for
Bank financing.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was issued to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report No.
4174-HU). An economic mission visited Hungary in November 1983 and its
preliminary findings are included in this section. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is
a small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1981,
covering an area of 93,000 square km. Dissected by the Danube and bordered by
five countries (Austria to the West, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia to the
North and South, and Romania and the Soviet Union to the East) Hungary has
historically been a nexus of social, cultural, and trade linkages between East
and West Europe. It is a country of relatively meagre natural resource
endowments, although it has significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite
and some hydrocarbons, and advantageous conditions for some agricultural
products. It has a long history of industrialization in certain branches of
industry (notably textiles and other light industries), which has been
extended in the decades since World War II to the heavy industry branches,
including chemicals, metallurgy and engineering. The country has a
homogeneous population with a single language. Being relatively small and
without major topographical diversity between regions, Hungary is not marked
with regional disparities in development. Incomes are also quite evenly
distributed as a matter of social policy, and most services are of a
moderately high standard. While on the whole the population enjoys a standard
of living higher than many countries in Eastern Europe, wage levels remain
low, the choice of consumer goods is relatively limited, and there are still
major deficiencies in housing and in access to potable water and sewerage
facilities, particularly in rural areas.
1/ Same as Part I of the President's Report for the Industrial Export and
Restructuring Project, also to be considered by the Executive Directors on
March 27, 1984.



-2-
The Economic System
4.        The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment,
production and trade decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war
period when planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was
fully centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Planning remains a significant instrument in Hungary, and the
State uses the plan to set the framework for the economy. In the period since
1968, the year which marked the major break with the previous system, the
emphasis in reform has been twofold: on strengthening the influence of the
market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of "Economic
Regulators", through which the State maintains control of overall economic
activity. These regulators include credit control through the centralized
National Bank and the State Dfevelopment Bank which are the only two sources of
credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation through centrally determined
formiulae; and the regulation of the net surplus from production through a
series of fiscal measures and control over enterprise reserve funds.
Enterprises are free to make independent investment decisions, but large
investments for which credit is needed from the National Bank are subject to
the approval of the central authorities.  The State itself has direct control
over certain investments--State investments--generally in infrastructure and
large capital intensive plant, which are financed from budget sources through
the State Development Bank.
5.        The State-owned sector, comprising al:L enterprises, state farms and
agriculture cooperatives, accounts for some 90 percent of both investment and
output in the economy. Private activity is evident in the so-called "second
economy" in which individuals enter into produclion, trade and service
activities for their own benefit. The second economy is particularly
important in agriculture, where, for certain products, output from private
holdings is a large share of the total. In industry, also, there is an
increasing practice of workers in enterprises grouping together into "Contract
Work Associations" to utilize the industrial plant out of hours, for their own
benefit. These second economy, activities are encouraged, as a means to raise
productivity, to increase capacity utilization and to enhance personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.        The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (42 percent
in 1983 with 39 percent of total employment), reflecting a more advanced
degree of industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high
share of heavy industry in total industrial output (66 percent in 1983),
reflecting the emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries;
(c) compared to many developed countries, a relatively high share of the labor
force employed in agriculture (22 percent in 1983) implying that, in
principle, significant scope exists for productivity growth and further shifts
of labor out of this sector; (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 40 percent). Hungary's high degree of trade dependence makes it
vulne!rable to shifts in world trade and prices, and is a principal factor
underlying the reforms which aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy
to changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy



consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry.  While
manufactures are important in total exports (64 percent in 1982) they are more
important in relation to exports to the CMEA countries; major shares of
exports to convertible currency markets are comprised of agricultural
commodities (about 32 percent in 1982) and raw materials (about 28 percent).
7.        Since 1970 GDP has grown in real terms by an average of 4.3 percent
per annum, led by industry (5.1 percent). Services and agriculture have grown
less rapidly at around 4.2 and 3.4 percent, respectively. The impact of these
growth trends on incomes and employment was influenced by Hungary's slow
population growth. The fact that Hungary has an almost stagnant population,
which grew by 0.28 percent per annum in the period 1970-83, implies that
growth in GDP has brought an almost equal growth in per capita income.  This
has meant that in the past the State has been able to sustain a high
investment rate while still maintaining a significarit real increase in
personal consumption, which grew by 4 percent per annum during the period.
However, wages remain low in Hungary, and in 1982 the average wage in
socialist industry was Fts. 4,512 (US$123) per month. Social benefits (in
consumer subsidies and services) represent, however, a significant part of
household incomes.
8.        Hungary's demographic structure has also implied a stagnant or
declining total labor force, which grew by less than 0.2% in the decade
1970-80, and which declined by some 80,000 in the three years 1980-83. As a
result the considerable economic growth that has taken place over the past
decade has brought virtually no growth in total employment. In fact, total
employment declined by 116,000 jobs in the period 1975-83 despite a 28% growth
in GNP. This has led to a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary
which, though it may be more apparent than real at the aggregate level, has
also created pressure to economize on labor, to adopt modern techniques to
raise labor productivity, and to shift labor out of overmanned positions into
more efficient activities. Some of this is evident in the changing pattern of
employment over recent years. In the period 1975-83, for example, there were
net employment shifts out of agriculture (where a significant labor pool
remains) and less efficient industrial occupations in the urban centers, into
smaller scale, rural based industry and into the services sector.
9.        Sectoral productivity differentials are narrower in Hungary than in
many developing countries. However, these differentials have widened
significantly since 1978 as urban industrial production has continued to grow
while releasing labor to services and to rural occupations. In 1983 the
productivity in industry was greater than in agriculture by about one-quarter
and by about one-third with respect to services.
Government Policies
10.       Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities, and the relatively equal distribution of income which its
policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do not rank as
the first priorities of policy. While the raising of general living standards
is a major objective, the focus of policy is on the structural issues of
investment, growth, and efficiency. More recently, in response to growing
liquidity pressures in the convertible currency accounts, brought about by the



combined effects of Hungary'is debt burden, its propensity to import and the
relative softening of world tBxport markets, there has been a priority focus on
restoring the external balance. During 1982 the country faced both a
financial crisis, and a loss of confidence within the international banking
community, already made nervous by debt problems in other countries.  In this
situation the Government secuired the support of an IMF Standby Arrangement
(with an entitlement of $589 million) to restore its financial balances and
reconstitute its depleted reserves through a stabilization program even more
stringent than that in force before 1982. It also sought Bank support through
cofinancing as a means of bolstering confidence in Hungary in the capital
markets. While the country's liquidity crisis eased somewhat in 1983 and
external confidence turned in the country's favor, the pressures continue and
a second Standby Arrangement (for $450 million) was concluded in January 1984
(see para. 18).
11.       The Government also recognizes the need to make longer run
structural adjustments, but c:an do so at present only inasmuch as present
fincncial constraints permit. These structural objectives include
institutional changes as well as changes in the structure of economic activity
to reflect changed conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of principal
importance here is the need to become more competitive in convertible currency
markets for manufactures, to increase the exportable surplus in agricultural
products, and to reduce imports of energy and raw materials. While it is true
that: in the past energy imports have been available at favorable prices from
CMEA countries (principally the Soviet Union), there are limits on the volume
of these imports (around the levels reached in 1981), and purchases above
these amounts are at higher prices and paid for in convertible currencies.
The growth of energy imports, therefore, will become an increasing hard
currency drain. To raise the net convertible currency yield from production
and trade will require greater efficiency in production, improved product
quality and, in turn an upgrading of the country's productive technologies,
much of which are outdated and based on energy- and input-intensive
technologies.
12.       While the economic reforms are the centrepiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set in place certain measures to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
three priority lines of credit in the National Bank--for energy-saving,
material recycling, and export-oriented investments--and the adoption of
certain 'centralized development programs' in priority industries through
which the State coordinates and supports enterprise investments. Also, in the
general credit policy of the ]National Bank in force since the stabilization
program, investments are not Eavored unless they contribute to structural
adjustment goals. At present only smaller, quick-yielding projects in high
value-added activities are being approved.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Hungary has been successful in surmounting its financial crisis of
1982. However, the difficult external liquidity situation is expected to
extend through 1984 and 1985 and, to a lesser diegree, through the rest of the
decade.  In 1983 it became evident that a renewed stabilization effort was
needed. Through severe credit restrictions and other measures, the Government



has successively reduced the investment share of GDP to about 27 percent in
1983. There is expected to be a further reduction in 1984. To do this the
authorities have put in place a series of measures to restrict the
availability of all enterprise own funds for investments. This includes a 25
percent tax on any investment started after June 1, 1982 which does not
generate convertible exports or material savings; and an expropriation of 6-9
percent of the enterprises' unused development funds on deposit in the
National Bank. In 1984, to further reduce investment buoyancy, the
authorities plan to expropriate the compulsory reserve and working capital
reserve funds of the enterprises.  In addition, investment funded through the
State budget was reduced by suspending all new State investments.
14.       Correspondingly, growth has been sharply lower during the past
several years. Growth in the GDP for the period 1979-83 was only 1.9 percent
per annum compared to an average of 5.5 percent per annum in the previous five
years (both in real terms) and it was no longer possible to maintain the
steady growth of consumption to which the population had become accustomed.
In contrast to the 4.4 percent real growth over the 1974--78 period,
consumption grew by only 1.5 percent in the period 1979-83, and is likely to
be stagnant or declining in 1984.
Foreign Trade and Payments
15.       Through much of the last decade Hungary's foreign trade has shown
significant trade deficits in both convertible and non-convertible currency
accounts, and the country borrowed abroad to finance its high investments.
Since 1980, however, and with greater urgency since the financial crisis of
1982, Hungary has managed to achieve significant surpluses in the convertible
trade account. Thus, the peak convertible deficit of $784 million in 1978 was
transformed into a surplus of $882 million by the end of 1983. These results
were achieved partly through reductions in imports and partly through
expansion of exports. A significant share of these exports (almost one
quarter in 1982) was accounted for by the Socialist countries, paid for in
convertible currencies--but success in these markets in the short run may not
be a sound indicator of Hungary's longer run competitiveness in convertible
currency markets at large.
External Debt
16.       Debt outstanding in convertible currency has been reduced sharply
from its peak of $9.1 billion at the end of 1980 to $7.4 billion in September
1983.  The major cut was in 1982, following the repayment--largely from
reserves--of $1.3 billion which fell due in early 1982 and which the banks
were not prepared to renew. Of the convertible currency debt outstanding in
September 1983, only 17 percent was in short-term paper compared with 37
percent at the end of 1980. The level of medium- and long-term debt has been
held stable for the past three years as Hungary has managed to maintain some
access to commercial markets. Debt in non-convertible currencies has risen
steeply, from $0.5 billion in 1977 to $1.6 billion in 1983 (September);
however, repayments are modest due to the very low interest rates and long
maturities of this debt. In 1983 the debt service ratio of all medium- and
long-term debt to all export earnings was about 19 percent. In terms of
convertible currency debt service measured against convertible export
earnings, the ratio was about 35 percent.



-6-
Medium Term Outlook
17.       Hungary's stabilization efforts will require the continuation of
stringent demand policies throughout 1984 and 1985.  Restriction of domestic
demand and difficult conditions for exports to the EEC and some of the oil
exporting countries will result in GDP growth of less than 2 percent for
1984-85. The country's debt obligations will remain a severe drain on foreign
currency earnings for the next two years, and external credit over this period
may continue to be relatively restricted.  In subsequent years, assuming the
stabilization program has successfully restored the external balance, and
assuming a more substantial availability of external credit, growth may be
expected to follow world market recovery. By this time the impact of the
country's restructuring programs on industry and agriculture may be evident in
significant increases in exportable products, while the import savings program
in energy would add yet further to foreign currency resources. Nevertheless,
given the uncertain external situation, a relatively modest GDP growth rate of
3 percent is projected for the second half of the decade, and a slightly
higher growth for industry, the economy's leading sector.
External Capital Requirements
18.       Hungary's immediate financial goals are to reconstitute its
reserves, reduce its outstanding debt and lengthen its term structure, and
rebuild external confidenc,e in the economy. Given the high level of medium-
and long-term debt service in convertible currency ($1.8 billion in 1983) and
the low level of gross international reserves ($745 million in September 1983,
less than two months' imports of goods and services), the achievement of these
goals require continued borrowing from abroad, even allowing for the low GDP
growth rates and the trade surpluses expected under the stabilization program
over the next few years. :rn l:he 1984-85 period the debt service burden on
medium- and long-term borrowings is expected to rise to around $2.2 billion
(about 38 percent of convertible exports of goods and services) so that, even
with continuing modest growth of aggregate demand, an anticipated increase in
imports of only 1 percent per annum and a continued growth of exports at no
less than 4 percent per annum, gross borrowing requirements will increase to
about $1.2 billion per year. Bank and Fund membership will provide some of
these capital needs--the second IMF Standby Arrangement will provide Hungary
with a financing of $450 million ' and the commercial markets will be
approached for the balance.  Once the 1984-85 hurdle is surmounted, the
situation during the secondl half of the decade should be less critical, but
debt-service on convertible currency debt will remain high, averaging about 27
percent of convertible currency exports of goods and services.
1/ A 12-month IMF Standby Arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR425
($450 million) was approved by the Board on January 13, 1984. Under this
program, purchases are expected to be made in four installments, all in
1L984.



19.       Although the non-convertible balance of payments has traditionally
been in deficit, debt service is small (4 percent), due to the concessionary
interest rates obtained on loans from the Socialist countries. During the
second half of the decade gross borrowing requirements (about $200 million per
year) will be below amortization levels, in line with the Government's current
policy of gradually reducing borrowings in non-convertible currency through
reductions in the trade deficit. In the mid-80s, the total medium- and
long-term debt in non-convertible currency is projected to stay at the 1983
level of $1.6 billion, but fall to about $1.0 billion by the end of the decade.
Creditworthiness
20.       Hungarian authorities are committed to pursuing a strict economic
stabilization program through 1984, in line with the objectives of the second
IMF Standby Arrangement. However, a solid recovery of Hungary's economy not
only hinges on the favorable outcome of the stabilization program but on the
success of structural transformation policies. In 1983, steps were taken to
link performance and rewards more closely in the system of wage regulation,
and to increase the effectiveness of the competitive pricing system set up in
1980. More significantly, a comprehensive reform package was prepared and is
now being put into place. Its declared objective is to increase the role of
market forces in the economy within the framework of state ownership and
central planning. Specific proposals focus on three major areas of reform:
price/wages, enterprise autonomy, and financial intermediation - all oriented
toward increasing the efficiency of the country's productive sectors and
making them more competitive in world markets.
21.       In early 1984, the country is in a more favorable liquidity
situation than it was two years ago; continued tight demand policies, coupled
with strong IMF backing, provide reasonable assurance that the economy will
remain solvent in the short term. The prospects for economic recovery in the
medium- and long-term appear promising in light of the country's commitment to
a sound structural adjustment program. In view of the country's record, its
effective management system, and its general prospects for achieving an
external balance in the mid-80s and for re-establishing a moderate rate of
growth, Hungary is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY I/
22.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$478.2 million for six loans (including two 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture and
energy.
23.       Given the country's per capita income, the Bank's lending to Hungary
for the next few years will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry, energy and related
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Industrial Export and Restructuring Project, also to be considered by the
Executive Directors on March 27, 1984.



- 8 -
transport. Bank assistance would generally aim at strengthening the thrust of
the adjustment process; export generation; import substitution, particularly
in the energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation;
plant upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through
more efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product
quality; and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of
enterprise activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce
components.
24.       The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the Bank
was a successful catalyst in mobilizing two coimnercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan for the first two Bank-assisted projects. The Bank
participated in both these syndications with 'B' loans of $30 million and
$8.8 million equivalent, respectively and was able to introduce Hungary to
commercial banks which had not previously been engaged in Hungarian offerings,
thereby obtaining external funds additional to those from Hungary's
traditional sources. The Hungarian authorities have also requested the Bank
to help them secure cofinancing for the proposecd project utilizing the 'B'
loan type instruments.
25.       The Bank expects to continue to providLe technical assistance in
project preparation and desigrn, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade, and a review of the
investment plan. The Bank has already reviewed the coal and power subsectors
and a report is now being prepared. These sector studies would provide
valuable policy inputs for the Bank's dialogue with the Hungarian authorities
and come at a time when further reforms are being introduced to increase the
impact of market forces and to increase enterprise autonomy. Discussions have
already been initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the
Bank drew the Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using
inter-est rebates as an incentive system. Subsequent discussions were pursued,
both in the course of preparing the proposed project and in general
operational discussions and now the authorities have eliminated the system of
interest rebates starting January 1, 1984. Training through EDI is being
undertaken with a first course on the financial and economic evaluation of
projects held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two procurement seminars and
a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to determine storage requirements
have also been held in Budapest; all were well-received.
26.       The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
conve!rtible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14% of
Hungary's total projected conviertible debt in FY90, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 5% by that time.
27.       Hungary is not yet a member of IFC or IDA but the country is
interested in joining and preliminary discussions are underway.



- 9 -
PART III. THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
The Energy Context
28.       Background.  The Hungarian energy economy is modest in size, with
annual consumption of primary energy totalling about 32 million tons of oil
equivalent (MTOE). Of this, oil currently constitutes about 32%, natural gas
25%, coal 27% and hydro, wood, geothermal and imported electricity the
remaining 16%. In Hungary's drive toward industrialization, energy
consumption grew rapidly throughout most of the 1970s.  Having only modest
supplies of domestic hydrocarbons, Hungary imported increasing quantities of
oil, gas, and electricity from the USSR. Long-term fixed-price contracts
initially protected Hungary from the 1973 oil shock, but in 1976 the USSR
implemented a system of annual price adjustments whereby energy exports to
CMEA countries were increasingly tied to international oil prices and the
volumes available for export at concessionary prices were restricted.
29.       An energy management program, including economic pricing of energy,
financial incentives for conservation and interfuel substitution, and
regulation of energy consumption through a mandatory permit system for all
enterprises, was approved in 1980 for the 1981-85 plan. A series of price
increases have already brought domestic energy prices close to world levels.
Although Hungary has been successful in maintaining energy consumption at 32
MTOE per year and reducing oil imports by about 1.9 million tons over the
1978-81 period, net imports still constitute about 47% of domestic
consumption. Thus, net energy imports, at about $1.0 billion in 1981, claimed
12% of Hungary's export earnings and constituted 238% of its trade deficit.
30.       Consumption.  Per capita consumption of energy in Hungary at 3.0 TOE
(1981) is substantially below the average for Eastern European economies (4.4
TOE in 1980). Nevertheless, Hungary's intensity of energy consumption (1.4
TOE per $1,000 GDP in 1981) continues to be substantially higher than that of
most industrial market economies despite a sustained decline throughout the
1970s. This is characteristic of the economic structure of Eastern European
countries where industry typically accounts for 50-60% of GDP (as compared
with 30-40% in industrial market economies) and is oriented toward the heavy
industrial activities. The sectoral mix of energy consumption has changed
little over the period 1970-81, with power generation and heat production
representing about 40% of primary energy consumption, the industry and
household/communal sectors each nearly 20%, and all other sectors the
remaining 20%. However, the mix of primary energy sources has changed
substantially following a deliberate decision of the Government to shift from
coal to oil and more recently to gas. While coal's share in the supply of
primary energy has declined (fronm 48% in 1970), it is still significant (27%)
and slightly higher than the share of gas (25%).
31.       Resource Base.  Coal is Hungary's most plentiful domestic resource
with reserves totalling some 2.8 billion tons or 750 MTOE (lignite 32%, brown
coal 40%, hard coal 28%). However, the low quality, high sulfur and ash
contents, and difficult mining conditions (except for lignite which is
open-pit) severely constrain coal's development and use. The reserves of oil
and gas on the other hand are limited, about 105 MTOE in total (about 20
million tons of oil and 120 billion m3 of gas, including 30 billion m3 of



- 10 -
low--calorie gas), enough to continue production at present levels only into
the next decade. Nuclear energy is to take on an increasing role as four
units of 440 MW each come on stream by 1990 (the first began commercial
operation in 1983). Among the other resources available to Hungary are 880 MW
of hydro potential in multipurpose sites, abundant but unquantified and
generally low temperature reserves of geothermal water, and about 1 MTOE per
year of biomass.
32.       Energy Development Strategy.  Faced with increasing costs of energy
imports and uncertainty as to quantities available on concessionary terms
after 1985, the Government's strategy for the energy sector calls for: (a)
continued reduction of the share of crude oil and petroleum products in the
country's energy requirements, through increasing production of natural gas
for the near term, developing nuclear power and increasing electricity imports
in the near-to-long term, and increasing production of coal in the longer
term; and (b) containing growth in primary energy demand by improving overall
efficiency of energy use, especially in the energy-intensive industrial
sector, and including some restructuring of production toward more
higher-valued, less energy-intensive goods. Despite these objectives, the
share of imports in Hungary's domestic energy consumption will continue to be
substantial (about 45%) through the end of the decade.
Trends in Petroleum Supply and Demand
33.       Domestic production of petroleum, at about 2.7 million tons of oil
equivalent (including natural gas liquids) and 5.9 billion m3 of gas
equivalent to 4.8 MTOE (1981), contributes aboult 44% of domestic energy
production and supplies 24% of the country's energy needs. Slightly more than
half of the oil and gas production is obtained fWrom the Algyo field which was
discovered in 1965 and has already passed its peak productive years.
Secondary recovery methods (particularly waterfLooding) are routinely used in
Hungary to maintain production levels and increase the recovery factor of oil
fields, and account for 25--30% of total oil production. More advanced
enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques are also being tested in pilot scale
field applications in anticipation of further declines in production based on
present production techniques.
34.       Net imports of oil aLnd gas currently comprise about 72% of net
energy imports and 58% of petroleum consumption. Although connected by
pipeline (via Yugoslavia) to the Middle East, Hungary relies upon the USSR for
its oil imports (8.5 million tons in 1981) under an agreement negotiated in
1980 for the 1981-85 plan period. In part to balance refinery throughput with
domestic consumption and to serve certain convertible currency markets,
Hungary exports 0.5-1.0 million tons of petroleum products (primarily
non-energy) yearly. Natural gas is also imported mainly from the USSR and in
3
1981 amounted to 4.0 billion m3
35.       Although oil consumption nearly doubled during 1970-78, reaching
12.3 million tons, it has subsequently fallen to 10.6 million tons (1981) as a
result of conservation efforts and substitution of natural gas but to some
degree, also, due to slower economic growth. Consumption of gas grew steadily
throughout the 1970s to 9.9 billion m3 (8.0 MTOE) in 1981. Industry,
toget:her with heat and power, account for some 84% of gas consumption today



- 11 -
and 92% of fuel oil. The household/communal sector consumes some 13% of
natural gas and 32% of gas oil, primarily for heating purposes; transport and
agriculture are the other major users of gas oil (53%). Hungary is a net
importer of gas oil, gasoline and Ikerosene, but has begun construction of a
fluid catalytic cracker scheduled for completion in 1984 to further process
fuel oil (released by substitution of other fuels) into these higher-valued
products.
Petroleum Resources and Potential
36.       Hungary covers an area of 90,000 square kilometers, of which 70,000
are considered prospective for oil and gas. Despite severe geological com-
plexities, Hungary offers good prospects for finding additional oil and gas
reserves. There are basically two prospective realms in Hungary, the shallow
(1,000 to 3,000 meters deep) younger Tertiary section and the deep (3,000 to
7,000 meters) pre-Tertiary sectioni. Exploration efforts in Hungary to date
have focussed primarily on the former because of the relative ease of
exploration requiring only conventional equipment and methods. The latter has
been evaluated only sketchily, if at all, due to both geological complexities
and technical hazards such as severe overpressures and very high tempera-
tures. The geophysical tools and methods to explore such complex structures
have become available only quite recently, mainly in the U.S. and Western
Europe. Similarly, significant advances have been made in drilling technology
to overcome high pressures and temperatures. These timely developments
therefore offer opportunities for Hungary to explore the deeper and more
difficult prospective realms and hopefully arrest the decline in reserves as
well as sustain present production levels into the next decade. Hungarian
experts and Bank staff have evaluated the potential of all such known
prospects. The results indicate that there is good chance that Hungary's
resource base could be increased by as much as 450 MTOE.
37.       Notwithstanding the good prospects of discovering new petroleum
reserves in the medium and long-term, the application of advanced EOR
techniques is necessary to maintain Hungary's oil production at the current
level. Application of modern EOR methods has the potential of increasing the
recoverable oil from presently known fields by about 15 million tons overall,
which could be extracted at a rate of up to 1.5 million tons per year after
1990. This EOR potential must be developed because many of the oil reservoirs
will by then have reached the end of their primary production periods, and the
production thus made possible could substitute for the declining production by
present extraction techniques.
The Hungarian Petroleum Industry
38.       The National Oil and Gas Trust (OKGT), the Borrower of the proposed
Bank loan, has overall operational responsibility for the entire oil and gas
subsector. It employs about 46,600 staff and has 23 enterprises which
specialize in all aspects of the petroleum industry. Primary supervision of
OKGT's operations is exercised by the National Energy Authority under the
Secretary of State for Mining arid Energy in the Ministry of Industry, who also
appoints its General Manager. OKGT has a good management information and
corporate planning system. It bears a strong organizational resemblance to
integrated international oil cornpanies in that it serves as the controlling



- 12 -
organization for a group of subsidiary companies engaged in specialized
petroleum activities. These enterprises are separate legal entities, forming
independent profit centers and enjoying a high degree of autonomy on
operational matters. Nevertheless, the Trust centralizes marketing, planning
and investment decisions, sets internal transfer prices, and arranges
financing, thereby effectively making the individual enterprises operating
divisions of the Trust. Decision-making with regard to major projects is also
centralized and the Trust exerts close technical and economic control over the
implementation of projects entrusted to its subsidiary companies.
39.       Since its establishment in 1948 when the industry was nationalized,
OKGT has developed into a capable national oil company in its own right, with
good technical competence, organizational efficiency, and project
implementation capability. As in other countries, however, there have been
drawbacks from an undue emphasis and focus on developing a national capability
in all facets of the petroleum industry. This, in turn, has resulted in a
relative lack of exposure to and operating familiarity with the latest
technological developments of the international petroleum industry,
developments which are now becoming critical for Hungary's future oil and gas
production.
40.       Prewar Hungary had a long tradition in cooperating with foreign oil
companies. Today Shell, British Petroleum and AGIP are active in the domestic
distribution of petroleum and account for 15-20% of gasoline sales. The
existing laws/decrees allow OICGT to enter into joint operations with foreign
oil companies in exploration/production activities but they do not stipulate
any specific terms.  In recent years the Govermnent has encouraged OKGT to
form joint ventures with selected major international companies capable of
bringing in the necessary technology and presence in a broad area of petroleum
operations. Although two major oil companies have shown tentative interest,
no tangible results have ensued. This is attributed to the companies'
perception that Hungary's petroleum prospects are modest by international
company standards, that the chances of discoverling gas are higher than oil and
that Hungarian exploration is extremely manpower- and capital-intensive due to
the preponderance of small to medium-sized prospects. In the event that the
exploration program included in the project results in major oil and gas
discoveries, it is expected that the international oil industry, which is
already familiar with Hungary's geology and conditions, will spontaneously
geneirate proposals. The need for Bank assistance, if any, in handling these
proposals would be decided at that time.
Petroleum Pricing
41.       The basic principle underlying the Government's pricing decisions is
to reflect in domestic prices, the international price of imported
commodities, particularly energy, and eventually bring most domestic prices in
line with world levels. As a result, prices paid by industry for individual
petroleum products have been raised by 100-300% since 1979 and those of
natural gas (depending upon consumer) by 150-400%. Petroleum product prices
paid by industry in Hungary today are not only substantially higher than the
weighted average cost of production and imports, but are also comparable to
international levels (FOB Barges, Rotterdam), and gasoline is more than twice
the international price. Based on 1982 refinery throughput and consumption



- 13 -
patterns and 1983 prices, a refined ton of crude oil sells for about $250 in
Hungary, or $15 more than a similar product mix at international prices. In
the case of natural gas, the long-term policy of the Government is to have a
price structure that would be comparable in energy terms to its most likely
fuel substitutes, particularly oil products. At the same time, the
Government's present energy strategy is to substitute gas for oil since the
former is expected to be a more abundant local resource than the latter and
could be imDorted, if necessary, in larger quantities more easily than oil.
Thus, for the time being, the price of gas ranges from 60-80% of its most
likely oil substitute to encourage enterprises and households to switch from
oil to gas. Nonetheless, the current average gas price in Hungary is about
$85 per 1000 m3 and is substantially higher than the average cost of
production and imports.  Although household consumers of gas oil, LPG and gas
for home heating and cooking pay Less than industrial users for these items,
their prices are also substantialLy higher than the cost of production or
imports. The lower prices paid by households for these few items are a
reflection of the Government's policy of limiting wage increases during the
transition to a more decentralized and open economy. Moreover, the quantities
consumed by households at these lower prices are small, representing 10% of
total oil and gas consumption, respectively. The Government reimburses OKGT
for the lower price of gas oil and LPG charged to households compared to that
charged to industrial users. This amounted to $118 million in 1983 (about 3%
of OKGT's gross revenues) but is expected to be eliminated by 1987. The
Government has conFirmed to the Bank during appraisal and negotiations its
intention to continue the policy of keeping domestic petroleum prices
comparable to international price levels. The Government also complements
energy prices with administrative measures to ensure energy conservation and
efficiency. The price structure and administrative measures have been
successful in improving the energy efficiency of the economy and significant
declines in overall energy intensity have been achieved in recent years.
Bank Role in the Petroleum Sector
42.       To date, the Bank has ifinanced one project in the energy sector for
industrial energy diversification and conservation (Loan No. 2317-HU of
1983). In addition, an energy sector survey is planned to integrate the
Bank's knowledge of the major energy subsectors (Bank studies of petroleum,
coal and Dower are underway), provide an opportunity to review the
developments and prospects for the sector as a whole, examine the linkages
with the overall macroeconomic framework, and provide the basis both to
comment on Government investment proposals and to help the Bank make decisions
regarding possible projects for its support.  The proposed petroleum project,
comprising about 30% of OKGT's 1984-88 petroleum exploration and development
program, would be the Bank's first lending operation for development in the
b          petroleum sector.-I  It would address directly a key objective of Hungary's
1/ OKGT is, however, also one of several beneficiaries under the Industrial
Energy Diversification and Conservation Project (Ln. 2317-HU of 1983) and
is responsible for undertaking (i) the installation of a visbreaker and
energy conservation measures at the Danube Refinery and (ii) a natural gas
conversion program.



- 14 -
petroleum sector development strategy, namely arresting the decline in oil and
gas production and increasing domestic hydrocarbons production to reduce its
dependence on imported energy. To achieve this, the project would further
assist Hungary by introducing advanced technology and providing technical
assistance. These would strengthen OKGT's capabilities to explore
systematically for deep and ultra-deep prospects where most of Hungary's
remaining undiscovered hydrocarbon reserves are believed to exist, to evaluate
and implement EOR applications and techniques, and to more effectively plan
and carry out future projects.
43.       Substantial technical assistance has already been provided by the
Bank during the course of project preparation and appraisal. OKGT, together
with Bank staff, has systematically evaluated Hungary's petroleum prospects.
As a result, the project concept has been substantially modified and improved
to include a balanced exploraLtion program with emphasis on deep prospects in
prodlucing areas and on prospects in hitherto lightly explored and unexplored
areas, and a production strategy with emphasis on EOR. In order to
successfully implement this program, the Bank has pointed to the need for, and
OKGT and the Hungarian authorities have agreed to make extensive use of
teclnical consultancy and contractor services and to import advanced equipment
not available in Hungary. The authorities have further agreed to establish a
project-oriented central coordination and monitoring group, somewhat similar
to lhe "task groups" of the international petroleum industry, to ensure
effective project implementation and, in particular, an effective
interdisciplinary approach to exploration and EOR. In addition, following
discussions with Bank staff, OKGT has revised the scope and reduced the cost
(by 60%) of the Nagylengyel EOR scheme with only a moderate change in its
goals. OKGT has also agreed to expand its seismic processing capabilities in
order to reprocess a large amount of old data and to cope with an increased
amount of new seismic information which will become available during the next
five years. It has agreed to utilize foreign expertise for processing data
beyond its capabilities. Finally, a gas utilization study to rationalize
Hungary's gas development program will be carried out as part of the proposed
project.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
44.       The project was identified in February 1983 and prepared by the
National Oil and Gas Trust (O]KGT) with assistance from Bank staff and
consultants. It was preappraised in September 1983, followed by appraisal in
October 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1984 with a
delegation consisting of repriesentatives of OKGT and led by Mr. Jeno
Malatinszky, Assistant General Manager of the International Monetary
Department, National Bank of Hungary.  A staff appraisal report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Hungary, Petroleum Project" (No. 4896-HU) dated
March 5, 1984 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The
main features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III. A rnap of the country showing the project areas is
attached.



- 15 -
Project Objectives
45.       The main objective of the project is to support the Government's
strategy for the development of the petroleum sector, which is aimed at
arresting the decline in domestic oil and gas production through a series of
priority projects in exploration, field development and rehabilitation and
enhanced oil recovery. The project would also assist in strengthening OKGT's
capabilities in the overall management of the petroleum sector. More
specifically, it would seek to assist OKGT in: (i) defining an appropriate
exploration strategy for the country; (ii) developing a capability to
delineate, rank and evaluate Hungary's petroleum prospects; (iii) providing a
framework for the evaluation of promising exploration prospects which have so
far remained undrilled due to difficult drilling conditions and lack of
adequate equipment and technology; (iv) rationalizing its enhanced oil
recovery (EOR) strategy and improving its capability to design and implement
complex EOR processes; (v) improving its overall seismic exploration, drilling
and production capability by equipment upgrading, techaology transfer through
the use of international consultants and contractors and training abroad of
its technical staff; and (vi) enhancing its access to investment funds through
cofinancing.
Project Description
46.       The project is part of OKGT's 1984-88 petroleum exploration and
development program, and has evolved from a series of discussions between OKGT
and the Bank. It consists of (i) an exploration component comprising regional
and detailed geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, seismic surveys,
exploratory well drilling and equipment upgrading; (ii) an enhanced oil
recovery component including studies and one semi-commercial field
demonstration scheme and four pilot tests; (iii) the development of the Ulles
and Endrod gas fields and the rehabilitation of the non-associated gas
production facilities in the Algyo field; and (iv) technical assistance and
training in the areas of exploration, drilling, EOR and related studies.
47.       The exploration component will focus on the hitherto unexplored and
geologically complex deep prospects in producing areas and on those areas
which, although presenting reasonable hydrocarbon potential, still remain
virtually unexplored due to serious technical problems and lack of adequate
technology. The enhanced oil recovery component of the project aims at
formulating a long-term EOR strategy, and providing much-needed operating
know-how through the carrying out of field demonstrations and pilot tests.
All the major gas producing areas in Hungary have passed their peak productive
years and require extensive rehabilitation in the form of installation of
field compressors, in-fill drilling and improvement of surface production
facilities. To slow the decline of production, the Algyo non-associated gas
reservoirs will be rehabilitated and Ulles and Endrod, the two largest
undeveloped gas fields, will be developed.
48.       Although well-trained, capable and experienced in conventional
petroleum industry operations, OKGT's technical staff lacks operating
experience in the state-of-the-art petroleum technology. In order to cope
with difficult exploration and drilling conditions and to successfully
introduce and implement complex EOR processes, they require outside technical



- 16 -
assistance and training. The technical assistance component of the project
aims at providing consultancy and training in the areas of exploration,
seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation, well logging and log
interpretation, deep well planning and supervision and the design and
implementation of advanced EOR methods. Considering the continued importance
of natural gas in Hungary's energy supply, the Government would undertake a
gas utilization study with the aim of rationalizing its gas development
program including low-grade natural gases which contain varying amounts of
inert components (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01). A total of 59 training
programs for OKGT staff are included in the project for an estimated foreign
exchange cost of $1.2 million.  The majority of these involve on-the-job
practical training outside Hungary.
Project Cost and Financing
49.        The project, which would be implemented over a period of about five
years, is estimated to cost $519.7 million equivalent including the
capitalized front-end fee, physical and price contingencies, duties and
interest during construction. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
$243.6 million equivalent, or 47% of the total financing required. The
estimates are based on detailed lists of equipment, materials and services
prepared by OKGT and mid-1983 prices. A physical contingency of 25% was
applied to the base cost of exploratory wells and EOR projects and takes into
account the difficult drilling conditions as well as the experimental nature
of the field EOR tests.  Physical contingencies of 15% on field development
projects and 10% on all other cost items are considered to be adequate. For
local engineering and consultancy, the rates prevailing between OKGT group of
companies (Ft 4,600 or $107 per man-month) were used. The expected average
cost per man-month for the various foreign consultancy services required (142
man-months) is $22,000 including travel and subsistence. Price contingencies
were calculated assuming annual escalation rates of 8.5% in 1983, 8.0% in
1984, 7.5% in 1985 and 7.0% thereafter for local costs and 8.0% in 1983, 7.5%
in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% therafter for foreign exchange costs.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $90 million would finance about 17% of the
total and 37% of the foreign exchange financing needed for the project. The
loan would be made to OKGT with the Guarantee of the Hungarian People's
Republic. OKGT would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks and
pay the Guarantor an interest equalization fee of 10% of the Bank rate. About
40% of the financing requirement ($208 million ecluivalent) would be provided
by OKG3T through internally-generated funds.  The balance ($221.7 million
equivalent) would be provided by the Government in the form of a loan.
Barring unfavorable market conditions, a "B" loan type of cofinancing
operation will be pursued in conjunction with the Industrial Export and
Restructuring Project also being proposed for Bank assistance. The
cofinancing operation will be on the order of $200-300 million equivalent for
both projects and, once available, will substitute for part or all of the
Governiment loan.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
51.       OKGT's Deputy General Manager for Technical Affairs would be
responsible for overall project management. He would coordinate the
activities of all OKGT enterprises charged with implementing the various
components of the project as well as the services of consultants; monitor
project implementation; and evaluate and prepare reports on the progress of
implementation. The day-to-day management of drilling, seismic and
construction activities would be the responsibility of the enterprises in
whose areas of operation the projects are located.  As suggested by the Bank a
project task group, in which major implementing enterprises and departments
are represented at a sufficiently high level to ensure effective project
supervision and coordination, was set up at Trust headquarters in January 1984
to assist the Deputy General Manager. OKGT will use the services of
international consultants to assist it in carrying out the exploration and EOR
studies, in designing the field pilot tests and in exploratory well drillings.
Procurement and Disbursements
52.       Procurement of items proposed for Bank lending will be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines with the
exception of approximately $4.0 million of goods which will be procured
through limited international bidding (LIB) with quotations solicited from at
least four suppliers from three different countries. LIB will be restricted
to imported items estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, as
well as items in limited international supply whose delivery periods are
critical to the timely completion of the project, such as high-pressure and
temperature valves, control equipment, special packers and bottom-hole
assemblies. For internationally-bid items to be financed by the Bank, the
list of goods and services will require prior Bank approval and bidders will
be pre- or post-qualified in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants will be selected according to Bank guidelines. All items not
financed by the Bank will be either supplied by OKGT's subsidiaries or
procured by LIB in accordance with local procedures.
53.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made against 100% of
foreign expenditures for (a) oil field and exploration services, (b) explor-
ation, drilling and production equipment and materials, and (c) technical
assistance and training. There are no qualified local suppliers capable of
providing the goods and services proposed for Bank financing; therefore, no
disbursements are expected to be made against locally procured items,
Finance, Auditing and Reporting
54.       OKGT's costs of petroleum extraction (excluding production taxes)
have increased sharply in the last five years with average annual increases of
16% for oil and 18% for gas. These rapid rises in costs reflect the
increasingly expensive operations inherent in producing from petroleum fields
that have passed their peak productive years. Higher costs are also due to
the more expensive exploration required to replenish petroleum reserves given
that the relatively easier areas to explore have been almost fully covered and
new exploration efforts are increasingly conducted in more difficult-to-
explore areas. Thus, the rising trend in OKGT's extraction costs is expected



- 18 -
to continue through the end of the decade although at a somewhat lower rate
than in the recent past. This cost increase would have an adverse effect on
its finances unless appropriate measures are taken. Consequently, it was
agre!ed during negotiations that OKGT would take all necessary actions to
ensure that it earns at least 8% profit (before income taxes) on its resources
in use and is able to cover at least 80% of its annual exploration and
development expenditures from its gross revenues (Loan Agreement, Section
5.07). These undertakings would enable OKGT to cover at least 50% of its
total investments in the next six years from internally-generated funds.
Similarly, agreement has been obtained from OKGr that it will take all
necessary actions to ensure that its long-term debt service coverage ratio and
its current ratio will be at least 1.5 and that its long-term debt/equity
ratio will not exceed 60:40 (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.04, 5.05 and 5.06).
OKGT has also agreed to furnish monthly progress reports on project
implementation, semi-annual financial reports and audited annual consolidated
financial statements.
Environmental Impact and Safet-y
55.       The main sources of pollution attributable to project related
activities are well effluents, chemicals used in production and drilling
fluids. All necessary precautions will be taken during the design and
construction of surface production facilities to minimize the chances of
over-pressurization and corrosion which could result in polluting the
environment.  These precautions will conform to normal petroleum industry
practices and the strict environmental protection and safety laws of Hungary,
which are satisfactory.
Benefits and Risks
56.       Most of the Hungarian sedimentary basins are prospective, and many
areas are still under-explored or unexplored. During appraisal, an evaluation
of the prospects using improved statistical techniques was carried out by OKGT
and Bank staff. This evaluation has concluded that the remaining recoverable
oil and gas potential could be as high as 130 million tons and 400 billion
m3, respectively. While these estimates are subject to wide variation, they
are indicative of a large potential for additional exploration and are a
reasonable basis for developing the programs included in the project. The
technical conditions are such that a carefully designed program for
exploration, development and production is expected to result in an average
economic cost of about $42 per TOE which compares very favorably with its
average economic value of about $185 in 1983 prices. 1/
57.       The exploration component included in the proposed project has been
carefully designed to meet specific objectives, one of which is to attain a
reasonably high probability of discovering substantial recoverable reserves
within the next four years while still maintaining a wide mix of prospects
including those in areas that so far have been only lightly explored.  The
minimum petroleum discovery that would make the exploration component of the
project, together with the subsequent field appraisal, development and
production, earn an economic rate of return (ERR) of 20% was determined to be
1/ Assuming discoveries of 70'% gas and 30% oil on average and an international
price of oil of $215/tonl and of gas of $139/1000 m3 (fuel oil parity).



- 19 -
about 10 MTOE. The corresponding cumulative net foreign exchange savings in
this case would be about $1.5 billion (1983 prices) over the 16 years of
estimated productive life of the discovery. On the basis of statistical
exploration risk analysis, there is a high probability that the exploration
program could lead to the discovery of about 5% of the expected recoverable
reserves in the basins or about 14 MTOE and is therefore justified.
58.       OKGT estimates, and the Bank accepts as reasonable, that appropriate
EOR methods could increase the ultimate oil recovery from existing fields from
an average of about 34% to about 40%, resulting in additional recoverable
reserves of about 15 million tons of oil, equivalent to about 75% of the
present remaining recoverable oil reserves. Such magnitude of additional
reserves would have a substantially favorable impact oni the Hungarian
economy. Of the five enhanced oil recovery pilot schemes included in the
project, the Nagylengyel carbon dioxide pilot, is a semi-commercial scale
operation and is considered a revenue-earning component. It would yield a
cumulative net foreign exchange savings of about $195 million (1983 prices)
over its 16 year estimated productive life. The other four pilot EOR schemes
under the project are small scale Eield experiments designed to test the
technical feasibility of the various techniques.
59.       The combined ERR for the rehabilitation and development of the three
gas fields is about 149%. The cumulative net foreign exchange savings for all
three fields would be about $3.9 billion (1983 prices) over their 19 year
estimated productive life. Sensitivity tests indicate that even under adverse
conditions, such as cost Lncreases of 30%, benefit decreases of 20%, project
implementation delays of two years, or some combination of the above, the ERR
would still be over 47%.
60.       Equally important would be the non-quantifiable benefits to be
derived from the technology transfer components. The enhanced professional
expertise to be gained by OKGT staff through technical assistance and training
should have an impact on its overall operations and should help to further
improve its efficiency. On the policy side, the gas utilization study to be
undertaken under the project shou:Ld enable the Government to formulate an
effective strategy for the development and use of this important energy
resource.
61.       The main risks confronting the project are essentially those
inherent in all petroleum projects, namely: (i) geological risks; (ii)
drilling risks; (iii) uncertainties associated with petroleum reserves and
productivities; and (iv) failure of the EOR methods to result in economic
incremental oil recovery. While the geological risks involved in the
exploration component are substantial and the chances of not discovering any
commercial petroleum reserves are always present in any exploration
undertaking, the evaluation of Hungary's petroleum prospects based on a
statistical method commonly used by the petroleum industry indicates that the
potential for discovering significant new reserves is high enough to justify
the exploration component. In order to minimize the geological risks, the
following provisions are included in the design of the proposed project:
(a) seismic programs have been selected to evaluate typical problem areas in
each basin which should help to minimize the number of dry holes; (b) drilling
would be focussed on prospects which carry high geological ranking; (c) all
well locations would be evaluated with detailed in-fill seismic and fully
mapped before drilling is approved, and the locations, depths and drilling



- 20 -
programs for Bank-financed wells would be carried out only after the Bank had
rev-iewed them (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)); and (d) the entire
exploration and EOR programs under the project would be jointly reviewed and
reassessed by the Bank and OKGT on an annual basis (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04(a)).
62.       The risks associated with drilling are minimized by the introduction
of high-grade equipment and materials, and provision of state-of-the-art
expertise in planning and supervision. The reserves and productivities of the
gas fields to be developed and/or rehabilitated are determined on the basis of
a large number of delineation wells and, in the case of Algyo, 15 years'
production history. The EOR field tests are planned on the basis of past
experiments which yielded encouraging results. However, given the
heterogeneity of oil reservoijrs, the results obtained may preclude field-wide
application of processes to be investigated due to economic reasons. To
minimize the economic and physical risks associated with the EOR component,
the proposed designs would be reviewed by experienced outside experts who
would assist OKGT in their implemention, monitoring and evaluation. In view
of the above measures, the overall project risks are acceptable by normal
petroleum industry standards.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Oil and
Gas Trust (OKGT), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hungarian People's
Republic and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page I of 5 pages
HUNCARY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SMET
1t.1hAIT                         REFERENCE GROUPS (UEtGHTED AVERACES
APEA (T)IOUSAND SO. KIM.)                                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
Tr,rAL           93.0/f                                                   MOST RECENT         KtDDLE INCOIZ        IIJDUSTRlALtZ?Z
AGRICULTUMAL    60.37                         190 lb       1970 /b        UTISATZ /b            EURO?t          MUUT eCORLIS
CGP PER CAPITA (US))                                   ,.        630.0           210.OL.             2323.9                 1032d.2
ENZRGY CONSUIMTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRADS OF COAL EQUtVALENT)                 1710.0      2799.0            4094.0/1            2107.6                 7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
P09ULATION, MID-`EAR (Tk OUSA'DS)             99d4.0      10337.0           10711.0
TURiAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)             40.1         47.9             53.4                47.9                   78.0
PPULArION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NILLIONS)                                           11.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                             11.7                  .
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION REAC1D                                         2030
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. Km.                                  107.3        111.2            115.2/f               83.3                  138.6
PER SQ. XH. AGRICULTURAL LAND                139.5        150.5            161.67T              135.4                  509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                      25.4        21.1              21.9                31.1                   22.7
15-64 YRS.                                    55.7         67.4             64.7                61.2                    65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                              8.9         11.5             13.4                  7.7                   11.6
POIULATION GROTN RATE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                                          0.7          0.3              0.4                  1.6                    0.8
UR3AlM                                          1.5         2.1               1.4                 3.5                    1.4
CRUSDE BiRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 14.7        14.7              13.9                23.6                   14.5
CRLE CEATUl RATE (PER THOUSAND)                10.2         It.6             13.6                  9.2                    9.3
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATrE                          1.0         1.0               0.9                 1.6                    0.9
EA111LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (rHOUSANDS)                    ..       149.0Ic          686.0/c
USERS  MPiRCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..         6.Ov           28.O/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
lIDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                      83.0         91.0            136.0               114.0                   111.1
PER CAPITA ,UPPLY OF
C&LORIES (PERCENT OP REQUIREMENTS)           122.3        127.6            134.4/t             125.1                   130.8
PROrEINS (CRA115 PER DAY)                     84.9         A6.2             94.37T              92.7                    97.1
OF W6ilC  ANIMAL AND PULSE                  35.9         39.0             46.17               35.9                    61.3
CH.LD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE                      1.6          1.1              0.6                  9.2                    0.5
HEALTi
L.FE EXPFCTANCY AT 8IRTH (YEARS)                67.9         69.4             70.4                67.6                    73.6
ISNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)           47.6         35.9             23.2                65.1                    11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE UATER (PERCENT
OF POPUI.ATION)
TOTAL                                         22.7/d       36.11d           65.0/4
UR3AN                                            ..        64.9/d           83.8Sd
RURAL .t.6.d                                                                43.1/.
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(PERCEN1T OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            ..        27.0/d           37.0/d
URBAN                                           ..         54.3/d           65./51d
RURAL                                            *          2.51d            3.81d.
?C.LLATIGt  PER PHYSICIAN                      720.0        507.0            400.3              1105.4                  620.7
PUOCLATION PER NUR51N  PERSON                 326.0/h      235.0            I45.0               634.4                  246.9
P)P-LATION PER HOSPlTAL BED
T IAL                                        140.0/h      124.0            114.(/I             286.9                  122.0
RSAN                                         o0.07W      134.0            IO9.OA              19Z.0                  140.6
-                         RURAL                                            ..           .. RALL
ADTISSIOSS PER HOSPITAL RED                       ..        20.8             21.6                20.0                    17.7
UOUSINC
WCRACE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
UTOAL                                          3.1          3.0              2.8
UMS3h .A                                                    2.7              2.7
RURAI.                                          ..          3.2              3.0
C ERAfE        OFNUS 0! PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                          2.4          2.0              1.5
055R10                                          ..          t.9              1.5
RULRAL                                          ..          2.0              1.5
ACCILS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                         74.6         91.7             9S.0
iR AV                                           ..        94.6             99.0
RURAL                                                      8 97.4           96.7



-22-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
HiVCARY - SOCCA  ItNOtCATORS DATA SHZTT
itUNCAIl                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WtICHtlTEO AVERACES
- O10T RrCefNT t5T[KATZ)/&
MOST RECEN?T        RtDOLE LKCONE          i';JDSTy1ALlEo
1960 /b      1970 /b         IST7HATE /il            ZUROPE            XRKXET ECONOMIES
tiDUCATlO?t
ADJUSTED L9tROLLMENT RATIOS
PR21fAYTt    TOTAL                               101.0         97.0       '       9.0                 102.9                    101.7
KALS                               1.03,0         98.0              97.0                10741                    103.9
e8AI                 *o100.0                      9                 97.0 ..0o                                    103.6
SZC(NlARYt  TOTA.                                 1.7.011      32.0               40.0                 80.2                     68.'.
MALI                                57.07T        26.0              33.0                  66.4                    t3.4
FDiALJ                              35.04         38.0              47.0                 34.1                     64.2
VOCAriOlOAL Eh'ROL. (8 OF SECONDARY)                30.4         47.3               53.0                 31.6                     18.2
PUFtL-TEACiHeR itATI0
PRI!tARY                                         24.3          17.7              13.4                  25.8                     20.3
SECONDARY                                         11.4         10.4                8.2                 22.2                     16.1
/DULT LITERACY RAEt (PERCENT)                   . 6.7            98.0               98.5                 75.9                     18.9
CONISUMPT O?t
lASSE:;GCER CARS PER TIOUSANiD POPULATION            3.3         23.2               94.6                 31.0                    338.4
RAVI( RECEIVERS PER THOUSAJN  POPU2LTION           222.8        244.6             252.1                 157.2                   1021.7
tV RECEIVERS PER TIOUSANO POPULATION                10.4        111.1              252.3                123.7                    403.6
RTISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
1::TEREST`) ClRCULATION PER
T!tOUSAiD POPULATIOL                            143,6         113.2             241.6                 112,5                    331.2
CINES:, ANIIUAL ATTEUDANfCE P?E  CAPITA             14.0           7.7               6.7                  4.0                      3.6
.t6l8t 01ORCE
ToTAL LA3OR FORCE (THOUS.4.DS)                   4681.0        4995.0            5044.0
fEXALE (PERCENT)                                 35.5          41.2              44.8                  36.6                     36.0
A.RIC'ULT'.IJRE (PERCENT)                        37.0          24.8              20.3                  38.7                      6.2
INDUSI.Y (PERCENT)                               35.3          44.4              42.6                  25.9                     37.8
PARIICIPATION RATS  (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                            46.9          48.3  .           47.1                  44.5                     453.
ttALC                                            62.7          58.1              53.7                  56.3                     53.9
TXhALZ                             ~~~~~~~~32.1    38.6              40.9                 32.8                     32.4
tCO:IC?iJC DEPENIDENCY RATIO                         0.7          0.7                0.7                  0.9                      0.8
1l?:0RCO9T STP.IRIfflCN
PEFr1ET orF PRIVATE INCOME
RiECEIVED %Y
HIGCHEST S PERCFt'T Or NOUSErHOLOS               12.11.        11.5/e            10.6/.
HtCHEST 20 PERCEN'r OF HOUSEIIOL3S               34.8ie        33.7/e            31.3/7                  ..                    A3.0
LOt'EST 20 PERCENT OF UO(ISEHOLDS                 9.4/a         9.9fi            1o.s/                   ..                      5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF XCIUSEInOLDS                23.6/1        24.8/e            26.2/.                  ..                     16.5
POVtEARY TIPFET GPOUPS
ES.IMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URtSAf                                              ..           ..    -...
RURAL                                               ..           ..                 ..                   ..
t STI.'MATED FELATIVE POVERTY INCOhE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
RURAL.                                              .            ..                .                 406.6
ESTIMATE3 FOPUIATION SELOW ABSOLUTV
POCEKtTY IICOHE LEVEL (?ERCEEr)
URRA21                                             ..            .-                 ..
RURAL                                               ..           ..                ..
. Xot aaiLlable
Not appLcable             I
The Sro.p avertoes for each lndicator are p.p.letion-wethted arith.etic means.  Coverage of countr.es *eonR  the
1rd1c.tors depends on availability of data and is not unLfoto.
/b  Unlen. otherwtse noted  data for 1960 refer to any yeac betven 1959 and 1961; for 190, 'between 19f9 and 1911; *nd foT
Hc.t Rccent EstLmate, i1Utwcen 197Tn.l  196MO.
/c  Voeen of rtproductie age (17-49) u.1nE Or..l contracepttves.  /d  Peccent of occupied dvelllngts.  If FPrcent of incomc
received by the respectlve percent of the population, actd data reer to  .aers 1962, 1972 And 1977.  Jf  1980,  /g  1977,
lb 1962, IL 1960 data Include part-time *dult education, hence not c"pararsbl to late, yeore, /i 1961.
February, l9R3



-23-                                                         ~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
MFYIXITI?0 0F IMIAL InDICAOR
seetrosLly tw.cspoe. beraee ci tCM  ech of  -rudcrdL.eo   dottettloe  u-d .....epta used by dtff. tssterotsIrtuto     .b dee..  the date ac., sse
their..., useful1 te dseri..     rdrs. Lb.ttu   .IALdtrec   tes.,ac  chareutortee cerisi  s-J..dfo rsbaosuetia
Tho rfarese   merc.y. r  (if  sIre           ... uutry jicup 5! th.  ta0joel: c-utry rd  (7) a usstry  &t..y serb .cos-t:htetroae git  iLeco   thou rho  -.trty moos
of  he  cajer  rrccryfo Pst Joo    ,High I-oe    ott Itopuctar" gr-P oters  Niddlo  loses. X.Ith Attica cud X0441. !us" i  chasr ..                  au.   f5 z.rtutge
asrs-eieri etiteos . i  the tafea-t  grout data thoaero   r  peueteoihrud. arith-ais  -ae  tar each indicte.t ted sh-a  arty ohs
PIera    attecac         oa  te   a  data  for that.        dce tr"l.e th.Cr..er..   ofco Iet,. coot the  to.ttraer  4sperdo n  the  -oaiibhtttyI4 9dAt
eta  it .t.te   at P tOn-              l .ee ....h coterye r., roc   Srepa.
ASSA  (trhaucAn  sq,.b.c                                                                                ousionrtats  td -ttl   ra,ei  ua       n.ee   (t5t.ia
Ttote   - Tetrsi. eurte   seeR. coot I..&to   ... aed4 Istead  1ear;  hi  dart.                        eot. er   uotSrdsb   hi   ii     c   cbru  riiC"   sd
tsr crePt.     suo.  ec.-Uce sad kItcher tetd-r  or t  Itic Suites; 1979 dora.                      hbabrlersei     -ontort         . Mortol -ae   c li.h-1rs   rercaroori  etafod
hy or tres  coo phraiuiso.  Corblieth-sc    p-tndinl oriretpaiiy  ...tas
COi POZX CAPITA tIcSI)   Git putcctsciarsuetro  sachet yrret-.  tl-                                      dtcicrsar  oc  l-udd    rrl  cspt                      -- uwa. IScrida hasit
cula-e   hr  -s-Cocsutr  ore  at Vled Oath Arise 1578-dO  basic); i960.                              endocda  crci  ocr po.eo-oiy ar1ffrd by a pbyaie far (hot by 
Lt)0 . sad100  data.                                                                                  rodical.. asitr.-     trsI        a lc.-.r.).hinh effOar So-ao                a o--
dees s-J rpc-ida aIcstaldrae  ofsaiciaclteta.  Per starts
5701 MCcOutrmnlOc ?PI  W11Th - Ae-ua           ... ioupctu..a  rr tcta   storSy (rest                    tis  pur.L   s  -rlh-  h-a-tat  Inolodo VWt.Lrcplttrihsias
trieIey) to icrs  e   eleqeccc   e -tr;tO   1910. aid 9It                                             ceeso    SPccistited h-ctitals   I er    cidod only  sda. ros.
dara.                                                                                                Mde,_uc  rat cosir   td -T. Cra  cuter of adsistc-  re or ddach-Sr.
tree bcspitslc dicedrA hr the -eehr uf brAs.
POPULATION AND rITeL $T.hTT0fCO
TotaC rcaatcoXOd-lac-  (rto .aaaadu) - I   ad lai  1  150. 11170. cod ISIS                       ittOtMI
data,.                                                                                             Anrr    isnIie-hl  (osn   a  huarbo1d) - otl  ubs.an   eat
Orhet Fcoi..   c  (p.re-ec of  ,crl) - y.aolu cI cittue is rualreulcl                                A buu..twld corstsn       Ie  e  ea f Lcdirrdu1.o eW. shre          .otfcrsr
"Iffost dsttrre                b re   st.OassyC rElet CoqperabilitS af date                         er4 thei  rat -  au-L..  A hoarder er  udgir soy so   -rot ho rciadad  to
sntceste   160. iI..so   Id dae                                                           th. hacarcu1d  toe  itriaricall rerpoass.
ecei ppoleic  hyagesu  sat ted ttheI  Ietaity sod futIily  Iatos.                        doetli.ta. tepoc t-ry.  Irelcec  ueto-asro    rutrs ee
ry riopa.....rset  for rarle    oaatsio   c   ha   sn                   se-elntpted yorc..
tot lifaoretru             och t.er. ic..         hcc.L.epa t       artech incAs...ots to IItntrltti  (ono   fdoLtes  -tori. cih5e, rod totl 
-tttIty fcudosc              ci   lnd an  ne.    i fa sI pla_ot t. yottor
tehcc .ryt  the, auato-r  -c  nO chars nice caa.tsatie_t c1ff .ctit,y                EDUCATION
cd Srrtlitry ri-dr for nicteiacio   p-ircaro.                                                 AdI.a-d rr-eIsss   Wten
tOabicrtrh Icreeclo L.          dtatatra.    peptal         Ch,r  oc   roo I "   orIrior .-It be    -1 cora    eel cod fsLs L- Cetro,saesi sl
_-ic    eoet   Otter ra auhleco   c.I, af-c   etlc    ae  dscrYc   re1                               nictyscpu6   peruattci-;%   oslty  ootudra chIldre   aged 6-il
uSrI oicstosai  oc-uttly.  Tho  teatco.ry popcisetoorlrcre                               cceriat nob  -nincr-s  adu.srtc  oci.... 1         t ccY ocso  100 poros
sit-d o  the hacle of thu ytjrc-d obo-soit-icric   of rho ruocite-                                ot-e  -cr  ynlla si  belec or acto  the uffiotat ehoeS em.
Lc lbs yc.r 20OtS  aed rhorut o..f doulua-cf f-riti i rac  Sct icisa                             Iu-d-r  o-hn-t  - .cta, oats and foolo  - C.ncr   -shn; rasdsrr
sissl   b..a.e.                                                                              usually, uS  12ic1ret  of eCo; ncrca.ed.t.couse   air .gaally
culcs;10,192 ucd 19"9 dat.                                                             telua   inia, icuotl   r Cths  pr..u.e.. obhic, op.r... todapd-
Ocrso.At ostietual ena- cat,-d at oho-  fat a0iclcrtte                                       crLy  ra.dy_cec           _t s dac   osietos
aIy; 1960. 1970 ae  LfOAr.Fyi-scrctc- picouy.ad rcnayTora1 scd                                                                                                    rresIciad Sc
rocuatls ae IrucunoInrcoc) - Childiu  Il-la  roos),coocc-ata  fIS-                            .r.rye                scdsory treats, d,idid by c-thts n  tah:ro to rho
1utu;190  ?0I. crd 100dat.-                                                                dlt lit-iay r-au   f-rr...t)    ItoCos   dults1b   to Iosd sod soits)
to atoICech hes toroc)-  ca   acus  tra-,h c                      cf tucu1 old-                 as       - ta . ti cc   ot  ctet adult pcpulcrt- a1sd it ysarc  -od snot
'rt  arleico ". cir 1910-50. 1960-70. sod t9ft-CO.
rccloio  ooobtrnfccccte        -oher -   -aoc  &icoth ruts-   f sober ccrc-               Criflt"tlox
tuceo   e  1950-60.    0-0  ucd   90-00.                                                         farro    atta   bucderlccb-rcegrco   cctoetor
Crcdo  irc  heo (ci hotcid    '- oul line htrbo pot th-octed of old-yea                       cLsscldtosta                 Xiht pare....  occude  .sbcIar-a  h..,e  sod
tcuuro  90, tOh  sd190daa                                                                      il.loa    -hbtclo.
uulrc;1960. 1920. acid 1900 dai.                                                             ioduracacrs  yaCLI- c   buod oCPplSfO   soledcs
Cre Pecicto   Sor-nr,hn,ete   ecboa   Ioe  01  hs  to                                                  icorsstrnic cct Itsac   toY_e  ohm-  -ctrsto    f teA
diem  osecs;   ueus      A ...i rca-yos   Iooss  inIc  SeT0.170   e    il.esucIreaoitd ceoar
.1           "c.. O'  -I          f-Ily              p-gr...               g--~~~~~puttOOlet1i   I deoedh--dIytornodc -eocial t, I...TV isreeetdaosd
Is on calodar rear  oris.  lumdlo ici ccii prisay  uncdd-tg.                                   ri-siols ucdIs...o rdIro
tuLa  cclcoicryrccc ...Ce Loot196tc7110015  1970. ou  19C0 dat,. ..ctal0                                  Auhcr-Forc   It.oca ,d         . - - -cncsol       d sntc    crcth. tecbottog
Fr, car ittocclt cLf cauro  (yaocc  ci, tod.cciofnt   - Coaydct               - ..tic               crad fk-       and  uccoceCh d  hucI rel- ud,Jc   hcrcer. ttdar-5. CIn.
cItysa    fasith  icolar       d rnpci-cnca  trocc1rItc.  body eSgit. 550                                  E          I_Icotoc(osec)-   Lac  fot  n ict0    rstttc   aeorti"
Peued.yi  lone1;   h-i,190an  17 duir.                                                                1000,d970 ad0100ddata
PsioarIr   sutl  Li _ttu.  (ccs  o .dcc      tot   orieo  yeL,lb         qtcait                 !,oot-ccr0  rect (Z-ccr)  I- octl. Lab.  and9 fero... -, Psiotipa too
cr dor Ly to foo   rot d.c   bet rrrd   cOfe   s doiicdaabco    So-                            ucflehuty   Pece  .nt ccntsd  so tareI.oas.uc  freafl-_     s0   lb7 r f- rr L sodt
-llo Itosnf60  re            u `S tald yocct  y-rr daL o   0Out   fois                             1990.  1920  . ad 1980 dat.   Teaaebrd  n0c   ao.ctro    ae
P.,c.ies prai..' of abic I   0I   au   bcdhaets  ptcr..spr  -Ir.- The   tn-tfotc    t-o r-i..pttaic  I.. rh    crictr  and-lung ti                                                 PIsd
sods arsly learohd I.bdca of 7  cease cc tota  prari  rod 70sos  ttc   a  sar    r I-                                         -etcit occo-o..-                 e11b-I- .
Acrid  FoodIT "                            C-Y-.    0   --- Suroy;cOh-hI  190 ot6177  sc9 icut   loca   late  duo.l.             -       .-            10.prii.i              .
crnsd   tsaiiseAooaIace.  potda;509165  1920.  i                       se   if Afo.            ccon  ctctfc
eg I Coe   -4fui,  c          fhldecI tl u -Id.  hru.p. Set b ee W  arcys   ee-                  5ret. thcho.hL2d  .ottrct   puonot  0  occrr  sod-    eenac CS .            sttsat
Pctos1dat F.darS-d  re   Il6ls5 r1970c -d 1        97%   cd77t  dccc.                                -f bucoobelda.
nra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              Po 6 q1   I11  d,- MONcE  macn 110110X
athtrrb 1- 0. 1970>      t       - 19_80Ld  data,_                             d                     ac.. et sicui  ho li-n.to-pst    si~th    i coslsrbh  -dcausico.        y  LI.
of 50o d.tt 4heeand ;Ilice bIths;lobS 1970  cod199  data.                                          dOs   .t.oir   net  oe   csa   ccalce    sc   be      iis
dcces n tlc   ste  firono  O tncir to)   ncai  cies.sodr.,ui    rc-         aSt ii_ tnns iMaomut     s    c5cssi   rnfe    seornoi  o
hot ctrrc   irel   re,at  sural) aic                aSCotbl  ocee lit   oafs                      uif-Lcrdcbls.
cesepi   ioldatora    ueervseoa   eoacdbocrncdocd                                              CriccdOlnr itmltneeton   iStoa                               Q)-c00   c   ea 
foet -cIil S leano     luuado nr h.              0 - errs "foo7  eca  say' ha-                   roiAtb ud-ui -t  Insbc.crc.                c    mS    f   Ibs               r .s. I
uootd.o PI c lhaist oreb- bieoch bl  ac96     as 1 ef rur18  ft.e.   O   oiorairsAbctj, ptrli..   olct                          bcut   Cctr.ktc               I..r ( hirhn       sa
tesily' sostat roust. I
OCs tioti  (rorel.-uthe-tarLuteI)..oocdbIr.crc_ dfsrPieia
tAr,   tosuie ot
!OE.i  SO.oar9nstc Foaoo- Pistt it-lcci by nesbe  of-1 I pahoto tcr                                                                           lay -L19DC.52
oatsand  ont     tidoe   tur-s   seater,-L sot ye L.-I.preia  seoras cadc-
ssooitg reireilasras.61 P                                                                                                                My196



--24 -                                      AM I
Page 4of 5 paJ
EXOIC  INmICAIES
CROSS crcsmnc PPmr IN 1983                                                     A.4AL RATE OFC1 aM (Z. ctxstant prices)
is  gBil.        _                        1970-75       1975-80     1980-82      1983
GDP at Market Price6               20.2            100.0                      6.3          4.0         2.9         0.9
Gross Daestic Invesbt               5.4            26.7                       6.2          2.6        -2.8        -5.0
Gross D1nestic Saving               5.8            28.7                      10.8          5.7         4.9         3.5
Resource Balance                   -0.4            -2.0
Exports of Gsods, WIS               8.1            40.1                      10.4          7.2         4.9        12.5
Irports of Good, NFS                7.6            37.6                       6.7          4.7         0.1         5.7
OUIJPIr, LABOR FMER  AND
PROOLXXTVITY IN 1983
Value Added                              labor Fbrce           V. A. Per Worker
BEE      US $ Bil.          X                      Mil.            Z                       Z X
Agriculture            152.2        3.4             16.8                   1,03          21.8     3,139.0        85.7
BInstry                375.4        8.5            42.1                   1,951           39.2     4,357.0       179.0
Services               277.6        6.3            31.2                   1,937           39.0     3,252.0        88.8
tballocated /1          91.7        2.0             1.9
TOtal/Average      896.9       20.2            10c.0                  -,971          100.      361-.0/2    100.0 /2
GOERTW FI.M
State Budget
(Foruins Nil.)       X of GDP
1983       1983          1980-83
Ourrent Receipts         539.2      60.1           59.2
Current Expenditures    484.6       54.0           52.7
Oirer.Lt Surplus         54.6        6.1            6.5
Capital Expenditutes     57.2        6.4            7.4
External Assistarce (net)
MONEY, C(EDr and PRICES
1978           1979                      1980         1981        1Q82        1983
(Billion Forints outstaxiing end period)
.'ney and Qiasi Miby               285.4          308.9                     342.1        365.1       387.6       407.3
BaIK Credit to Public Sector      422.0           460.0                     490.4        529.5       555.2       576.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector       81.6           91.4                     107.2        119.9       133.6       153.6
(Percentages or IneX  bMers)
oney and Qiasi Mxoey as X of CDP   45.4            45.4                      47.4         46.8        45.7        45.4
Generai Price Irsie (1975 = 100)   114.1          124.2                     135.6        141.3       151.5       163.3
Amnual percentage changes in:
GCneral Price Irsiex                4.6             8.9                       9.1          4.6         6.9         7.8
Bank crsdit to Public Sector        16.5            9.0                       6.6          8.0         4.9         3.9
Bank crecil to Privrate Sector      14.3           12.0                      17.3         11.8        11.4        15.0
/1  Custcrns duties and valuation differences %Aiich are not alloratel by sector and shw considerable fluctuatixn. ihere is ths a
distortion intLi eed into the interpretation of data on structuxral charge in the ecomr.
/2 )xcluding unalloated
NDt applicabla                                                                                   DUD10
Not available                                                                                   .JaWsry 26, 1984
14boF



- 25 -
AMU r
Pag  5     of5page
TPE PAYMS AW CAPTL F1S
BALIEE OF PAY!SNIS
(Preliminary)    MNDMISE EXS (AVERAE 1978-82)             Itade in            Trade in
1981       1982      1983                                                      Rubles           NnAbls
(Millions I$)                                                      S Mln.       X    S _ii.       X
Exports of Goods               8,893.2   9,083.2   9,233.0              Fuels, electric energr               24.3      0.7    321.6       7.2
imports of Goods              8,854.3   8,575.0   8,619.0               Raw materials, semi-finished
*n-factor Services (Net)         136.8     107.0      79.0                products, spare parts             842.8     23.1  1,560.6      35.1
Resource Gap (deficit  -)        175.7     615.2     693.0              Machinery, transpart equip-imt,
other capital goods             1,603.4     43.9    553.6      12.5
Interest Paymnts (net)       -1,120.2    -962.0    -650.0              Manufactured coasuser goods          649.5     17.8    670.8      15.1
Worners' Renirtances              ..         ..        ..               Agricultural goods                  533.8      14.5  1,339.1     30.1
Other Factor Paynents (net)       ..         ..        ..                  Tbtal                          3,653.8    100.0  4,445.7    1W 0
Pet Transfers                    47.2       63.0      55.0
Balance on Current Accomt      - 73    -2'34.0        8.0            ECIAL DEOT, SEPT3EPZ 30, 1983
US Bln.
Mediur- and lopg-Term Capital                                           Pblic Debt, ircl. guaranteed                             8.944
MAsets /i                    -130      -180       -74                  (of which: Cawertible Ourrency)                       (7.367)
Liabiities                  1,119       347       135               N1t--iaranteed Private Debt
Infows                   (2,025)   (1,287)   (1,467)                   2btal outstanding and disbursed
CLItflows                 (-906)    (-940)  (-1,132)
Short-Term Capital                                                  DEBT SEJICE RATIO FOR 1983/4
Assets /1                    -87        -33        32                                                                            X
Liabilities /2              -e22       -966
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             19.0
Other items n.e.i. /3             ..       235       315                Nx-Qjaranteed Private Debt
increase m Reserve  (-increase)  616       881         ..                  Total                                                  19.0
RAIE OF 13R3I
December 1983 (end of)                                               IWDA/14 )11t (Septelier 1983) (Mln. Us$):
US $ 1.00 = 45.2 fmaizi
Pt. 1.00 - $0.022                                                                                                      MM 81
Outstanding and Disbursed                      0.6
1982 (averee                                                           UWisbursed                                    238.8
US $ 1.00 - 36.6 forin s                                                outstanding, incl. Uldisbursed               239.4
Ft. 1.0 - $0.027.
/1 an-reserve assets; mostly export financing.
/2  Includes errors and omissions.
13 Use of DIF Resources.
7Z Ratio of total debt service on mrediun- and log-term debt to total exports of goods and services. lhe debt service ratio of convertible currmey debt
to exports of goods and services in convertible curre y including short-term debt %as 35%.
Mt applicable.
;    t available.
Jamiry 31, 1984
1486F



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans /a
(As of September 30, 1983)
US Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower           Purpose                    Bank    Undisbursed
2316-HU    1983    NBH /b           Grain Storage & Mech.         130.4        130.4
2317-HU    1983    HPR /c           Energy Conservation           109.0        109.0
B2-HU       1983    NBH             Grain Storage and Energy
Conservation                   30.0         30.0
B2-HU       1983    NBH             Grain Storage and Energy
Conservation                    8.8 /d       8.8
Total                                         278.2        278.2
of which has been paid                        _
Total now held by Bank                        278.2
Total undisbursed                                          278.2
/a The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Ib National Bank of Hungary.
/c Hungarian People's Republic.
/d US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen denominated loan of 2.1 billion.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
HUNGARY
PETROLEUM PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to prepare               7-months (February 1983
the project                                    to September 1983)
(b)   Agency which has prepared the project          National Oil and Gas
Trust (OKGT) with
assistance of Bank
staff and consultants
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank         July 1982
(d)   Date of first mission to consider the
project                                        February 21, 1983
(e)   Date of departure of appraisal mission         October 15, 1983
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations             February 24, 1984
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness                  June 30, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a)   To seek the Bank's views prior to the drilling of all wells selected
for Bank financing (para. 61); and
(b)   To jointly review with the Bank its entire exploration and enhanced
oil recovery programs under the project on an annual basis (para.
61).
2. The Guarantor to undertake a gas utilization study (para. 48).






IBRD 7729
Il                                                     2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                             22      .                 L)FCEMBFR I2<
HUNGARY                                         IREABIOIONI   WELL
PETROLEUM  I PROJECT                                   FMREAIo                     0ktI.U..
ICOANAIS                               03.CCIC ZE CHOS LOVA KIA                                                                                            i
PNERs~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RAOE                                   41 
INTERNAT ONAL BOUNDAR EB             N....150 _702C-
ELEVATIONS.                           .........A..101....nb.c'                                                                                                                                 eb0 
ABOVE 400 METERS                     J3MIMC3422A               RBQC                                                                                                                     102o3
-A .ABCJ3AR            20 
200  -400                                                3     40 
G-2fln                                                                         $a1g6icri d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oki
r           ~~~                                                                      I   C                                                                          {'IO..                         -r-I    , 
*  K                                 4  *                   2440                                   23           .2242312                                                         2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    Nirgy6o
AUSTRIA  1)  2                                                                                                                                                              C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~noDebrecen
A  RCA;                                I                      d~~~~Vs        ((CAPE                                       S~c                                                              ROMAN  I A
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-0-
7  .3  Popo~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  IE.
S2.4athely    C I2W                   TB-                                                                                                             2.S(S                                                                 O2F2UO
~~~~~  1/                   123~t SdksehvrUNEGOUDASTRG
(P  J3100222CC'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                                                                                                                  PUMP NA A ATIOSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P ,b  TIN
>0        (                   Ve~~~~~~~~~~~szpre-m    p. M2C100y           0021j7B43d                       122rCC                                                                                          S2LRPS0NJALPROBETNIT
-N>                                                                                                                                                                  .2ooood                         OIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  I~ e6  A PFlEEL NESTBEUL
F40r2e  deco                                                                                                                                                             LOS   PIEFI    CIA  ABE  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,~0            1PE      E   O       UU L
~~~  '5  *-0                                                                                                             BOCRCUSOLBO                                               31034~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B~   UD  TCr PROJECT
212C0                                                                                                                                                                 ARDOR TIlE 1031>35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NF TI RQF 
R3.C1CI2442                                                                                                                                                                             B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  AASP PELINEA .2ND14
20W2)                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CON.STRU CTI20
PETROL.EUM PRODUCTS
2          s  4                                                                                               2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  < 2~~~~~~~~~~ 
*                            EC,2221,210012o2221001C0CC                  <   ~~RUOMANIA
1123I3S,                       Y 3j3GC0 2  LCAVRI A
Y U GOS LA V I A*                                                                             r.4                                                                                     30210                                      BAULGARIAr
0        20                 60A       CO
IOVL   E S I T2E RS 
24                                       20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAYTRE-



I I
I



