Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22497
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23250)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION (US$9.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
06/29/2001
Rural Development m
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1991)
Currency Unit = Dobra
Db 1,000 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 0.001 Dobras
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
APSDP          Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder Development Project
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CRP            Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
DGA            Directorate General of Agriculture
DOTMA          Directorate for Territorial Administration and Environment
DRN            Directorate for the Registry and Notary
EEA            Public Agricultural Enterprise (Empresa Estatal Agricola)
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Coop*ration
IFAD           Intermational Fund for Agricultural Development
GoSTP          Government of Sao Tome & Principe
GRF            Land Reform Cabinet
GTZ            Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MSEE           Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment
NMC            Nucleis Marketing Company
NMMC           Nucleis Management and Marketing Corporation
NPSFA          National Smallholder Support Services Project
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDAP           Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project
WFP            World Food Program
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    A. David Craig
Sector Manager/Director    Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002535                                       |Project Name: AGRIC SECTOR
Team header: Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo                         TL Unit: AFTR3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: AGRIC SECTOR                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-23250
CountryIDepartment: SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform; AM - Agro-Industry &
Marketing; AP - Perennial Crops; AY - Other
Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/15/1988                               Effective: 08/04/1992         08/06/1992
Appraisal:  05/25/1991                                MTR:                       02/17/1995
Approval:  12/20/1991                              Closing: 06/30/1998           12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE/Ministry of the Economy
Other Partners:  World Food Program, Gesellschafi fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ),
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, Fonds Aide et Cooperation (France),
International Fund for Agricultural Development
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward. V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     A. David Craig                             Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Jean-Paul Chausse                          J. Joyce
Team Leader at ICR:   Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo                      Pierre Werbrouck
ICR Primary Author:   Marc Moens
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
7'he project was goldenflagged by the region.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder Development Project (APSDP) aimed primarily to
increase and diversify agricultural production through privatizing the publicly owned agricultural
estates and land, and promoting smallholder development. Privatization was expected to increase
production efficiency, eliminate the financial losses of the agricultural estates and provide
incentives for diversification into food and other crops. Secondary objectives included rural
poverty alleviation, diversified and sustainable agricultural growth, and environmental protection.
The project was designed to move from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented and
privately-operated agricultural sector, so the project aimed to: (i) distribute and lease a major part
of the Public Agricultural Enterprises (Empresas Estatal Agricola, EEAs) to smallholders and
medium-sized farm and agro-processing enterprises; (ii) reduce the number of estate laborers and
increase labor productivity on the remaining (private) estates; (iii) lease the financially-viable EEA
and nucleus processing facilities to the private sector; (iv) complete the on-going investments in
cocoa replanting and its maintenance until maturity; and (v) strengthen support services and
sectoral administration to promote diversification.
Project's objectives were clear and relevant for the development of the sector and for bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. At appraisal, about 66% of cultivated land was under (mostly
degraded) cocoa plantations, and cocoa production accounted for about 60% of export earnings.
The cocoa sector was deteriorating because of an inefficient state-run production system. The
development of food crops and agricultural diversification was hampered by a small private
sector, inappropriate pricing policies and a lack of access to the necessary agricultural services.
On the basis of several studies carried out with IDA funding, the Government (GoSTP) decided
to (i) distribute most of the cocoa estates to the estate employees, turning the latter into
independent smallholders; and (ii) also create a number of medium-sized plantations and private
nucleus processing units for providing marketing outlets, inputs supply and technical services to
smallholders. It was then assumed that diversification into food crops and animal production
would take place in the newly created small private farm sector the right macroeconomic
framework and investment incentives were put in place.
The project's objectives were therefore supporting STP's new agricultural development strategy,
and in line with IDA's country assistance strategy, focusing on: (i) macro and sector reforms,
including a market-based exchange rate and privatization through land distribution; (ii) the
rehabilitation of selected private cocoa estates and processing units to improve market access and
preserve export earning potential; (iii) the promotion of food crop production through adaptive
research and extension, together with the elimination of food subsidies; (iv) the diversification of
export production through improved access to markets, in particular through marketing
arrangements with foreign importers; (v) sustainable management of forest resources; and (vi)
strengthening policy formulation, planning and management capacity of the agricultural services
institutions.
-2 -



Project's design was, however, unrealistic. The complexity of the overall reform program was far
beyond local institutional capacity to execute, and the timetable for the envisaged privatization
process and overall structural changes was too short and over ambitious. The project envisaged to
implement far reaching reforms in the economy and social structure of the country even within a
relatively long (eight years) period, with a very weak and untested implementation capacity of
GoSTP. Furthermore, the design of the activities necessary to complement land distribution for
creating a productive smallholder sector, such as the provision of basic agricultural services
(adaptive research, extension), were not completed at appraisal time and the required financing
was still to be negotiated with donors. This process required more than three years in which land
was distributed to the new settlers becoming farmers - many illiterate - without the necessary
environmental protection, technical and economic support. Project design was also unrealistic in
assuming that government services and/or the private sector had the capacity to take over the role
played initially by the EEAs for providing basic social services (health, education) to former estate
workers.
3. 2 Revised Objective:
Objectives remained unchanged during implementation.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
To achieve its objectives the project was divided into four components: (i) land distribution:
technical assistance, training and equipment for the distribution and leasing (on usufruct basis) of
about 20,000 ha of public estates to small and medium-sized enterprises around private (or
privately managed) nucleus processing and marketing units; (ii) labor reduction and economic
support measures: financial assistance to the laborers leaving their permanent public service
employment on the estates and additional assistance in kind to those who settle on private
smallholder plots; (iii) operational and management reform of the cocoa sector: (a) technical
and financial assistance to privatize the cocoa estates and to introduce private input supply and
produce marketing through the nuclei. The nuclei are central units for the existing 15 estate
plantations consisting of the processing, storage and transport facilities. The nucleus was to be
sold or leased to the private sector, and (b) financial assistance to complete the cocoa replanting
program (1,500 ha) under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP, Credit 1830-STP), through the
maintenance of the plantations until the trees reached maturity in 1995; and (iv) agricultural
sector administration and support services: technical assistance to strengthen the
Directorate-General of Agriculture (DGA) and the Ministry of Social Equipment and
Environment (MSEE) in agricultural planning, sector management, agricultural and livestock
extension, agricultural training, land use planning and implementation, cadastral services, and
monitoring of the economic and social impacts of the project.
The Government was also to seek additional parallel financing from the Intemational Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the Gesellschaft fuir technische Zusammenarbeit
(GTZ) for the research, extension and forestry services necessary to support the structural
reforms and activities to be implemented under the project.
- 3 -



The project had a production objective (increase and diversify agricultural production) as its main
focus, but its design and components suggest that its main concern was to alleviate poverty in the
agricultural sector by mitigating the social consequences of structural adjustment in the early
nineties, when the government with the support of the donor community had undertaken to
reduce to zero the number of public employees working in the large state-owned plantations,
through the creation of a smalIholder sector. Indeed, US$7 million (45%) out of the US$15.7
million project costs (excluding PPF) were to finance the labor reduction and social and economic
support measures related to the reduction of employment in the EEA sub-sector (voluntary
departures, retirement package, severance payments), while the financing of the critically needed
services for sustainable agricultural development and productivity increases was left to other
donors. This approach led to problems during implementation because of delays in establishing
these essential services and the resulting lag in smallholders access to agricultural research,
extension and other support services necessary to improve their productivity.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were substantial changes in the design of the third component (operational and management
reform of the cocoa sector), with Bank approval. It was envisaged at appraisal that a new
(private) management company -- the Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation
(NMMC) -- would be established to manage the agroprocessing nuclei of estates which had not
not yet been leased to the private sector until privatization, and to supply essential inputs and
market services to private farmers. It was decided instead to contract two or three of the private
operators (Nucleus Marketing Companies --NMCs) which had taken over the management of the
agroprocessing nuclei of the already leased estates. This was meant to increase competition for
the provision of input and market services. Also, the original project design assumed that six of
the fifteen big estates would remain under lease contracts with private firms to sustain exports
while the other estates would be redistributed to small and medium size farners. However, the
leased large estates proved to be unsustainable. At the end of the project, only two of them are
still under lease, after being re-dimensioned to a smaller size. The other estates entered the land
distribution program to defuse the social tensions created by the land distribution process. In
addition, the voluntary departure grants' component for about 1,500 estate staff retrenchments
(US$1.25 million), to be co-funded with the Social Dimensions Adjustment Project financed by
the AfDB, was never implemented because the latter cancelled the agreed cofinancing. As a
result, an increased number of workers had to be compensated with land. Finally, the SAR
envisaged substantial external technical assistance (about 70 man-months). However, this
assistance was drastically reduced and funds utilized to finance the cost of additional local staff
during the extended eight years implementation period.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No assessment was done by the Quality Assurance Group either on quality at entry or on the
project's supervision quality. Quality at entry of the project is rated as unsatisfactory by this ICR.
Project's objectives were too ambitious and the design was both complex and faulty. The project
was supposed to assist the government with the implementation of sector policy reforms,
privatization of cocoa estates, the land reform program, the development of food crop production
and the protection of natural resources. This was a far too ambitious project given the limited
administrative and financial implementation capacity of the borrower. Project's design made
unrealistic assumptions about the possibility of a successful transfer of social services to Ministries
- 4 -



or private sector or the tight coordination with other projects for the provision of critical
agricultural support services. Support to agricultural research, agricultural extension and forestry
were removed from the original design in order to downsize the project and were left to be
appraised and implemented separately by other donors (CCCE, FAC, IFAD and GTZ). Project
outcome was consequently too dependent on parallel financing of other operations that had still to
be designed and negotiated. The SAR failed to recognize the possibility of delays in the
implementation of these components as a risk to achieving project objectives or at least to
mitigate against them. In all these areas, the design of the project failed to take into account
lessons from previous operations in STP, in particular the preceding CRP. The principal lessons
leamed from past operations in STP are that project design should be kept simple to
accommodate STP's limited and weak institutional and administrative capacity and that donor
coordination is fundamental to improving the efficiency and efficacy of extemal assistance. Other
relevant lessons learned in the preceding CRP that were not taken into account include namely: "
the training component should have been more clearly specified, specially for training of
plantation managers. Guidelines and benchmarks should have been established with clearer
objectives in mind"; and "key project components should be funded by a primary donor/lender
and not through cofinancing. The project was to be cofinanced by multiple donors, but few
donors came forward with the agreed amount and in the agreed format, and the project
complexity was substantially increased through its cofinancing arrangements"  (Project
Completion Report Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, November 29, 1993. Findings and Lessons
Learned). The design and appraisal team also failed to properly assess the regulatory framework
for land and include appropriate actions in the project as either conditions of effectiveness or
dated covenants.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Relative to the appraised project objectives, the overall outcome of the project is considered
unsatisfactory. On the positive side, land distribution has clearly helped in creating a group of
about 8,000 smallholder families (about half of the rural population) and has eliminated
government's financial losses from the estates estimated at US$1.4 million in 1992. Land
distribution and privatization is still ongoing. On the negative side, expected achievements for
agricultural production did not materialize as the agricultural sector failed to show clear
sustainable growth. Cocoa/copra production and exports continue to deteriorate and export
marketing continues to be a main constraint. The diversification of production has been limited
and food crop production which did increase primarily for the limited local market is now facing
market outlet problems. Finally, the natural resources have been severely affected by the lack of
technical support services with farmers cutting valuable cocoa shade trees to compensate for their
falling income as cocoa price fell in 1999. Poverty in STP has actually worsened in recent years
and income per capita has dropped from US$390 in 1993 to about US$300 in 1999.
-5-



4.2 Outputs by components:
The following table shows a summary of the components' appraisal and actual costs and their
output's ratings.
Actual as
Component                      Appraisal       Actual       percent     Rating
of Appraisal
(in USS'000)
1. Land Distribution                         1,941          3,666         189          S
2. Labor Reduction and Support Measures      7,028          2,196         31           U
3. Operation/Mgm. Reform of Cocoa Sector     4,740          4,317         91           HU
- Technical assistance                                  551      0                 0    HU
- Input supply/cocoa marketing equipm.                2,113   3,331              158    HU
- Maintenance of Uba Budo & Bella Vista               2,076    986                47    HU
4. Agricultural Institutions & Support Srvs.  2,040          985          48           U
Project Preparation Facility                 1,500           1,135         76
TOTAL                          17,249         12,299         71          u
Land Distribution
Considering the distribution targets and outputs, the component is rated satisfactory. With project
support, land distributed to smallholders and medium size units (27,000 ha) exceed appraisal
targets (20,000 ha) by 34%. The proportion of land distributed in small plots to former estate
workers (19,264 ha) and medium-scale farms (7,540 ha) was basically in line with appraisal
estimates (75/25). Land distribution to smallholders has globally been implemented according to
agreed upon criteria. However, the majority of the medium size holdings have been assigned
without fully complying with the agreed distribution criteria (technical and financial capabilities
and a development plan), with a majority assigned through direct allocation while by law this
procedure was to be used in exceptional circumstances only. The lease price for both the
smallholders and the medium-scale farms which was to be set at about 15% of the estimated value
of annual production, was in reality set low and the collection rate was also very low. Although
this may have been justified for smallholders, in particular because of their lack of access to
productivity increasing services, it may have induced increasing of demand for medium-size farms
and may not have been conducive to a productive use of the land. Finally, the legal and
institutional framework to ensure the sustainability of project's achievements in this critical area by
establishing an efficient land market is still not in place. Despite improved land security felt by
smallholders, the project failed to develop an action plan for the establishement of the cadastre
and for the registration and maintenance of land rights and transactions. This casts doubts on the
sustainability of the reforms.
As mentioned above, smallholder beneficiaries were not provided with agricultural or social
services as planned. However, the majority are now producing food crops - especially banana and
matabala - and animal products and have actually improved their living conditions from admittedly
a very low starting base as workers of bankrupted public estates. However, about one third of the
distributed land is now underutilized or abandoned, in particular among the land distributed more
recently, because plots are either too small to be viable units or are still inaccessible by road.
Furthermore, many smallholders had neither the skills nor the interest in farning but applied for
- 6 -



land as compensatory severance payments and to benefit from the WFP food aid distributed
during the first year of farm establishment.
On distributed land, valuable shade trees have also been cut and sold for cash, damaging the
productive capacity of land and causing erosion on slopes. Some of the land that, following
criteria agreed at appraisal, should have been included in protected forest areas has been
distributed in order to satisfy an increased demand for land. Land identified as "Fiorestas e
outros" has never been clearly and physically identified nor officially transfered to the Forestry
Department. Therefore this fragile land remains with the Ministry of Economy without an
assurance that they will not be subject of redistribution in the future.
Labor reduction and Social and Economic Support. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The
rehabilitation and development of the cocoa sector was highly dependent on increasing
productivity and competitiveness. This implied in particular a drastic reduction in the existing
underemployed labor force. Some of the economic support measures (severance payments and
food distribution to smallholders) have been carried out as planned. Other activities, such as the
voluntary departure grants or the monitoring of the social dimension of adjustment, which were to
be supported by AfDB's SDAP were not implemented because they were dropped from the latter's
lending program. In addition, most of the agreed program to support the orderly transfer of
social services from public estates to Government's services was not implemented. Prior to the
privatization program, the estates provided health, education and childcare for all their employees
and their families, albeit in a less and less satisfactory fashion. This was not sustainable given the
deficits the estates were running each year. It was thus envisaged that the companies that were to
take over the nuclei would continue to provide these services, on a subsidized basis from sales of
WFP food aid, until the actual transfer of these activities to the sectoral Ministries (or private
providers) in 1996. Government has, however, been unable to accomplish this transfer and
workers have thus largely lost access to education, health and childcare services. As a result,
most social indicators have deteriorated during the past decade. Gross primary enrollment rates
decreased from 82.5 percent of school age population in 1990 to 60 percent in 1996. Between
1995 and 1998 malaria cases increased by 183 percent, venereal diseases showed significant
increases and vaccination coverage of children declined.
Operational and Management Reform of the Cocoa Sector: This component is rated highy
unsatisfactorv. Its design was changed shortly after project start-up. The originally planned
massive external assistance to the NMMC -- 70 months of international assistance -- was
abandoned. Instead, two private NMCs, SODEAP and SAC Sur, were created in order to
increase competition with the already established private enterprises managing or leasing the
rehabilitated estates for the purchase of cocoa and the provision of inputs and credit. The NMCs
are still operating in the Northern and Southern part of the country but are only partially fulfilling
their mandate. They have been purchasing and processing smaller and smaller amounts of cocoa
over the past two years and stopped providing seasonal credit some years ago because of reduced
access to working capital and farmers' very poor repayment rates. In addition, four of six private
enterprises operating at the beginning of the project cancelled their leases because of labor
problems and poor results (yield forecasts for the cocoa replantations in Uba Budo and Sta.
Marguerida were 1,500 kgs of dried cocoa per ha but in reality only about 700 kgs was obtained
- 7-



on the best plots with a general average of only 350 kgs). The reason for the poor results was the
introduction of inadequate planting hybrid materials during CRP. Following their departure, the
Government asked the project to distribute the land of these estates. But as a consequence, the
quality of the marketing, input supply and credit services provided to farmners has been declining
dramatically.
Institutional Support. The component is rated unsatisfactory. The project financed expatriate
technical assistance, local consultants, logistics, equipment and necessary training to carry out the
land distribution and to develop the policy-making capabilities of the Directorate-General of
Agricultural (DGA) and the Directorate of Agricultural Studies and Planning (within the Ministry
of Economy). Several studies that culminated in an agricultural policy document were completed.
However, the overall capacity-building impact was negligible. Moreover, the project failed to
maintain an accurate database on the critical land distribution operations. This data would be of
crucial importance in the future for conflicts resolution, legalization and sustainability. Survey
trips to several African countries were organized to identify appropriate cattle breeds to be
introduced but nothing was finally done to support diversification in animal production. Most of
the foreseen actions to enhance environmental sustainability were not completed: the new forest
legislation necessary to improve forest management and protection is still in draft and awaiting
government approval. The updating of the country's land use plan to help delineate primary forest
reserves was not done, and a ban on the cutting of trees on steep slopes cannot be enforced.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the expected benefits of the project were : (a) a 60 percent increase in cocoa and
copra production and exports; (b) a 65 percent increase in annual food crop production; (c)
reduced financial deficits of the estate sector; and (d) forest resources management and
environment protection. Confining the economic evaluation to the revenue earning entities,
resulted in an estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of about 37 percent. This ERR was
estimated to drop to 10 percent in the extreme event of a 50 percent increase in costs, coupled
with a 50 percent decrease in benefits. Annex 3 shows the ICR estimate, following SAR criteria,
but adjusting project outputs to those recorded or estimated at the time of project closure: (i)
cocoa and copra production failed to show any increase and remained at 1992 production levels
(with some yearly fluctuations) and no improvement in quality; (ii) food crops (mainly banana and
taro) show substantial increments in production (about 32,000 tons against the 25,000 tons
estimated at appraisal); (iii) overall production value increases are estimated to be about US2.8
million per year instead of the original US$6.3 million (at 1992 constant prices). New estimations,
including both APSDP and NSPFA benefits and costs, show an ERR of 3.3 percent instead of the
37 percent estimate and a negative net present value of US$6 million. It should be noted that this
is a worst case analysis, because it underestimates the impact of the NPFSA on smallholder
production and productivity, while including its full costs.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A detailed socio-economic survey would be needed to evaluate the full impact of the project on
beneficiaries incomes and land reform on their living conditions. This survey has not been
conducted. However, the NPSFA reports significant positive results for agricultural production
and incomes (between plus 13 to 30 percent) since the project started in earnest in 1996, in
particular for food crops (and especially bananas among cocoa trees to replace the shade trees
- 8 -



that were cut down). There has also been a substantial expansion of root crops and an increase in
small stocks (chickens, pigs and goats) which is contributing to rural populations' improved diet.
The cutting of valuable shade trees for immediate cash, however, is now affecting cocoa yields
and promoting attacks by the insect Rubrocinthus (a cocoa parasite). Despite these negative
factors, small farmers claim to be better off than they were as estate workers. Based on simple
farm models, financial retums to smallholders and medium size farm models have been examined
and seem to be positive. The net value of their farms' produce is higher than the wage under their
previous situation as estate workers (Table 1, Annex 3). As plantation workers they were doing
less than US$1 per day and their situation was not sustainable since the government was unable to
pay their salaries.
Fiscal impact: The project was successful in reducing the drain of public estates on government
budget, since the termination of employment of former plantation workers was successfully
implemented and is now completed (losses of the EEA were estimated to be about US$1.4 million
per year in 1991). Social unrest and pressures were also growing given the precarious financial
situation of the government finances and mounting difficulties in paying estates workers' wages.
However, the expected increase in tax revenues from incremental cash crop production and
income or land taxes has not happened since the projected increase in cocoa or other cash crops
production failed to materialize and also because land tax revenues have been negligible due to
inappropriate tax policies and the low capacity for land fees collection
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been negligible. Although the project was
successful in redistributing land, it has done little to improve the institutional and legal context of
land access and land use in STP. The project issued temporary usufruct title, and created an
imprecise manual registry of distributed land, but it was considered important that final usufruct
contracts be issued to all beneficiaries within the project timeframe. To this effect, a study was
carried out to identify the requirements for strengthening the Directorate of the Registry and
Notary (DRN) and the Directorate for Territorial Administration and Environment (DOTMA).
DRN received support towards the end of the project financing for building rehabilitation (from
non-project sources), equipment and specialized software (cofinanced by the French
Government), and training (cofinanced with Portuguese bilateral aid). DOTMA received new
equipment and training. A report by a legal expert in 1998 also underlined the necessity to revise
the legal framework and urged Govemnent as a first step to register the in 1975 nationalized land
clearly in the state's name. All that is needed is an implementation decree, which has not yet been
issued. Without the appropriate registration of land in the State's name, it is impossible for
DOTMA to enter the newly distributed land parcels in the cadaster and for DRN to register the
land leases. As a result, not one beneficiary has completed the legal process laid down in the
1991 law.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencv:
The history of STP explains much of the current condition of agriculture: in the fifteenth century
with, the arrival of the Portuguese settlers, large-scale plantations were created, first for the
production of sugar and starting in the 19th century for coffee and cocoa. The predominance of
-9-



plantations now means that STP never developed a tradition of private, small-scale agriculture.
Soon after independence (1975) the government adopted socialism. During the eighties the STP
experienced a major economic and financial crisis due to political instability and inappropriate
economic policies, resulting in weak economic performance and a reduction in per capita income.
At time of project appraisal, the economy was in deep crisis. A large foreign-financed public
investment program was being implemented in 1990-92 but did not produce the expected
economic returns and as external public debt soared relative to GDP, there was no cash to pay
wages of the estate employees. Retirements were nevertheless completed in spite of a permanent
lack of counterpart funds for redundancy payments. This led to growing social unrest amongst
former estate workers in search of alternative employment/income. As a result there was demand
for land far beyond that available. A total of 5,465 workers were dismissed (1,317 remain still
unpaid) representing government severance payments of the equivalent to US$640,590 of which
US$238,550 are still due to the workers. The voluntary departure grants' component for
approximately 1,500 estate staff (US$1.25 million) that should have been provided by the SDAP
was cancelled after several delays thus increasing social pressure on the land distribution program.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the conditions for project negotiations was the publication of land distribution criteria and
procedures. On October 3, 1991 the government signed a decree stipulating that estate land
would be leased to smallholders on a usufruct basis for 20 years, automatically renewable, rather
than offer for sale as it was originally proposed. Usufruct rights were to be converted into private
ownership at a later stage, but this was never implemented. A recent government decision intends
to transform lease contracts into aforamento. The aforamento contract would give land
beneficiaries a permanent lease transferable by heritage, legal assurance in receiving financial
compensation in case of cancellation of the lease, the possibility of selling the lease for land and
using the lease as collateral for credit. Nevertheless this change cannot happen unless contracts
are formally registered at DRN. This decision however came only after credit closing and
implementation cannot be initiated under the present regulatory framework.
The salary disparity between project staff and officials in other institutions (DRN, DOTMA,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, etc.), who had an important role to play in completing a
legally sustainable land reform process, led to implementation delays. Staff in the latter agencies
and Ministries were reluctant to address additional project related workload in the absence of
equivalent benefits.  The change in Government in 1991, 1994 and 1999 resulted in
implementation delays because each time new members had to be appointed to the National
Committee for Land Distribution and the committee stopped functioning until this process was
completed.
The- country's economic crisis, poor agricultural production incentives and the threat of serious
social disruptions in STP was also not conductive to private investments. Thefts, insecurity and
lack of enforcement of law regulating property rights and contracts meant that most of the private
companies leasing cocoa plantations renounced their leasing contracts. Government commitment
towards law enforcement was also very week. The firm leasing the Uba Budo plantations
terminated their contract after a three months strike and workers occupation of the estate during
which most of the cocoa production was stolen. The political environmnent throughout the life of
the project has also been very complex and, at times, volatile with important reports and
- 10-



recommendations languishing for many months awaiting a clear government response.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project team has carried out a complex and demanding task, adhering as much as possible to
basic project principles and guidelines. They achieved an acceptable result given the pressures the
project has operated under, particularly since 1995 when political pressures to give more land to
medium size farmers began to grow. There were several factors that, under a better environment,
could have been subject to control and these constrained overall project impact. During
implementation the project generated and faced an increased demand and pressure for more land
distribution from people not initially foreseen as beneficiaries. In response to the increased
pressure the project adopted a strategy of reducing plot sizes of land to be distributed and started
the distribution of land that normally should have been registered as non-agricultural land.
5.4 Costs and,financing:
At appraisal total project costs were estimated at US$17.2 million, and IDA financing at US$9.8
million. The government was to seek additional parallel financing from other donors such as
IFAD, CCCE, FAC and GTZ for the research, extension and forestry components of the overall
agricultural sector program. At time of closure, IDA disbursed 96 percent of the loan amount
(SDR6.97 million out of the SDR7.3 million); WFP disbursed US$1.55 million (72 percent of the
agreed amount); and the GoSTP US$641,000, only 12 percent of its planned contribution. AfDB
cancelled its participation and the parallel financing for the NSPFA was not effective until late
1995.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as unlikely.
Rationale for sustainability rating: The project has made significant steps towards establishing a
market oriented agricultural sector and a more rational system of land use. Privately operated land
is now an irreversible process. However, the planned full privatization of land is not on
Government's agenda. Government has nevertheless taken steps towards long term use of land
through "aforamento" arrangements.  However, at credit closing, the legal framework to
consolidate land reform achievements and create favorable conditions for the sustainable
development of the distributed land was still not revised. Many things still remain to be done,
including the regularization of the original (1975) nationalized land and its subsequent distribution
under the project. More effort also needs to be made in the long-term aspects of land reform
(proper cadastre, registration of titles, conversion of usufruct into property contracts, sale/rental
of land etc.). Land privatization needs to be consolidated through a follow-up program of
legislation, institution building and development, and agricultural support services. Studies were
carried out to strengthen the registry (DRN) and the official cadastre (DOTMA) during
implementation, but the Government failed to follow up on these.
Most of the estate labor force left the public service, thus reducing fiscal pressures. However,
plots too small for viable operation were assigned to some of the workers. Diversified production
into subsistence food crops is also saturating the small internal market and access to neighboring
countries is still informal and unreliable. A further problem is that lower prices for produce are
- 11 -



pushing farmers towards tree cutting for cash. The proposed land use plan and the enforcement of
a new forestry policy to introduce monitoring of forest management to prevent degradation are
pending issues still not complied with. Since Government does not have the capacity to enforce
the needed natural resources protection, the privatization of land is resulting in cutting of trees
that will affect environment and production potential of cocoa and other perennial crops into
which farmers could diversify.
The project also failed to put in place efficient private companies to sell and finance inputs to
smallholders, purchase their crops and provide essential social services prior to them being
assumed by the line Ministries. GoSTP has diverted the original project marketing funds to other
uses, diminishing the purchasing capacity of the NMCs which pulled out of Principe in June 2001.
The CRP rehabilitated plantations and the subsequent APSDP maintenance in Uba Budo and Bela
Vista estates failed to help STP to regain former levels of production and export revenues. In
spite of continued and massive investments, cocoa production is still low and of poor quality.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No specific transition arrangements to regular operation were made. Cocoa continues to be the
only foreign currency generator and secure cash crop for the new market oriented, independent
farming community. Smallholders with a long-term crop such as cocoa would benefit from
financial assistance for replanting and/or rehabilitation but this possibility is unlikely. The parallel
NPSFA project is giving extension support, food and cocoa seedlings but this is generally viewed
as insufficient, and there is a strong competition for credit resources. While of considerable
benefits in the short-term, the long term development of the cocoa farms will require more
support than can be provided at present by the Government with available external support. Since
strengthened economic management and improved governance are important for effective poverty
reduction, emphasis was placed in the recently approved CAS on public resource management.
Further work and finance is needed to build an efficient land tenure administration to secure the
project's achievements and to ensure the transition from land reform into land tenure management.
It is of crucial importance to implement an action program aiming to: (i) develop an operational
and sustainable institutional capacity for land tenure management and a fiscal strategy on land
tenure; (ii) define physically and legally land and land holders (including the State); and (iii)
analyze alternatives to the lease contract including "aforamento" contracts and to proceed with an
official conversion and registration in the name of beneficiaries from lease contract to aforamento.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated as unsatisfactory since project design was too complex
and overoptimistic given the institutional capacity of the borrower. The SAR assumed that IDA's
leading role in preparing the strategy for the development of the agricultural sector in STP would
be supported by donors' assistance in policy and management.  These assumptions were
unrealistic. In addition, the design was based on the false assumption that the on-going CRP was
a success. This was assessed and viewed as having satisfactory results but turned out to be a
failure. Cocoa yields estimates, an issue raised more than once at the SAR review meetings,
proved to be completely unrealistic as the hybrids materials planted by the CRP were not adapted
to the country's agro-ecological conditions and failed to increase productivity. Labor productivity
- 12-



of unskilled farmers was also overestimated as it assumed that productivity increases could be
obtained quickly. The assumption that the NMMC could take on the functions described in the
SAR including, the social services, was also unrealistic. In addition, both the design team failed to
properly evaluate the regulatory framework needed for the proposed land reform or the need to
adopt a decree implementing the nationalization of land in 1975 as a condition of effectiveness.
The appraisal team's performance was also unsatisfactory because it failed to properly evaluate the
risk of the project's design and make the necessary adjustments.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is considered unsatisfactory. During implementation supervision missions were
focusing mainly on physical realization of the land distribution aspects without giving enough
attention to factors affecting project execution. During the mid-term review severe problems in
implementing most of the components existed (distribution of plots too small to be viable,
uncertainty of viability of medium enterprises, only 20 percent of the 3,800 workers deployment
target was complied with, shortfalls in the delivery of WFP food supplements, delays in providing
needed assistance to the new smallholder, and lack of incentives for staff of the Forestry
Departnent to monitor the illegal cutting of trees), yet implementation was rated as satisfactory.
Furthermore, the success of the land distribution process was also jeopardized because of the long
delays in implementing the parallel NPSFA project. Additionally, in the second half of the
implementation period, social pressure increased and an increase in the number of beneficiaries
resulted in a reduction of the size of the individual plots, thus further reducing their viability. As a
result, the production potential of the distributed smallholdings were reduced and the likelihood of
environmental damage increased. Bank supervision missions also failed to timely identify the
negative social impact that resulted from the false assumption that basic social services will be
effectively transferred and therefore not disrupted. The quality of Bank supervision was
undermined by the rapid turn over of task managers over the duration of the project (five task
managers in eight years) and inadequate composition and timing of supervision missions.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
Considering the above, overall Bank performance is considered unsatisfactorv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is considered unsatisfactory. The project suffered from
an absence of clear and precise characterization of the land to be distributed (physical
characterization on the field and on maps, and legal ownership). This work would have avoided
disputes that emerged during implementation and the problem that distributed land cannot be
formally registered in the name of beneficiaries because the land was never registered in the name
of the State'when nationalization took place (1975-1978). After credit signature, the government
decided to change proposals for land distribution from outright sale to usufruct lease contracts. In
retrospect, it seems that the main objective of the government was to defuse social tensions
created by the adjustment process after the collapse of the previous centrally managed big estates
and that full privatization was never its objective.
- 13 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is also considered unsatisfactory because it failed to: (i)
solve crucial issues related to the initial approach to land rights that acted as a disincentive for
private investments; (ii) deal adequately with the institutional context of land management; and
(iii) to put nationalized land in its own name as a prerequisite for legalizing land redistribution.
Converting usufruct rights into private ownership or a formn that could provide better security to
landowners would have been helpful. The govermrnent did not comply with its stated commitment
at negotiations to introduce regulations authorizing the sale of the land. Its low institutional
capacity, the difficult economic situation and the upcoming presidential election in June 2001,
make it difficult at this stage for the government to define an operational plan for the next steps in
the land reform process. The importance of capacity building for the achievement of sustainable
economic and social development should be given high priority for future Bank and donor
supported support to STP.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The project unit performance is rated as satisfactory. Project management has been relatively
efficient, and accounting and reporting sound and timely. The use of a Project Management Unit
has, however, been made without avoiding imbalances between the project and the rest of the civil
service in that they did not have similar incomes and working conditions. This resulted in poor
cooperation between agencies. This problem has lead to unfinished tasks, as is the case with the
strengthening of an efficient land tenure administration.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although the project development objectives were only partially achieved, it has to be recognized
that the country made significant progress in several areas, including, trade, downsizing public
enterprises, land reformn, institutional development and civil service reform. Government took a
number of difficult corrective actions during implementation to restore macroeconomic stability
and to normalize relations with the donor community and is sustaining the momentum and
broaden its reform efforts to other areas of economic management as well as private sector
development and social sectors and institutional capacity building. However, considering the
failure in most of the project's objectives, the overall borrower performance is rated as
unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*  Project design should be kept simple to accommodate the borrowers limited and weak
institutional and administrative capacity. Structural reforms require not only the analytical
capacity to propose or at least accept major changes, but also the capacity to implement them.
Implementation plans need to be developed in relation to the capacity of the agencies
undertaking reforms.
*  Implementation of projects involving land tenure reform, besides needing a strong political
commitment, require a clear operational and sustainable institutional capacity design which
should be tested before being tried on in a larger scale.
*  Excessive salary disparities between project staff and those from other agencies involved in
the samne development process with the project result in agencies not responding adequately,
- 14 -



and in delays or failures to comply with project targets or objectives.
*  The use of private management contracts to implement public investments do not necessarily
result in higher efficiency levels and results. The STP experience shows that an adequate
enabling environment is also essential.
* Where cofinancing of essential support services and activities is not assured in the timeframe
required, the project should be redesigned and additional funding made available to finance
these services and activities until donor support is obtained.
* The assessment the regulatory framework should be reviewed up-front as part of project
preparation and necessary changes made before a land reform project is fuilly implemented. In
this case, the decree implementing the nationalization of land should have been passed as a
condition of project effectiveness. The remaining regulatory framework could have been
revised during implementation as more experience was gained.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government prepared a project completion report which is available from project files.
Following the ICR mission, the Government sent a letter summarizing the accomplishments of the
project. No additional comments were provided on the ICR. The Government agreed with the
conclusions of the ICR mission aide-memoire. It felt, however, that the land distribution process
to some extent started to live a life of its own and was rushed without concomittant support to
DOTMA and DRN. Much work remains therefore to be done to complete the process. It also
mentioned that Bank disbursement procedures became cumbersome towards the end of the
project as the special account would not be replenished as needed because the Bank had already
started the recuperation process. This was especially an issue during the last year of project
implementation and this led to inevitable difficulties in completing activities.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is available.
- 15 -






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndleetorlMat.ix                   Projectd In last PSR                ActuallLagst Estim ate
Increase of 2,150 tons of cocoa production  not available                 no increase
by end of project
Increased in production of food crops of    not available                 32,000 tons
25,000 tons by end of project
Per capita income of US$390 by end of  not available                      US$300
project
Environmental protection improved and  not available                      still to be signed by President
supporting legislatin adopted
ERR of 37 percent                    not available                        3.3 percent
Output Indicators:
_ lndlcatowiMatix                  Projected In lattSR   __             ActuaLatst Esimate        |
Reduced the estates deficit from US$1.4    not available                  no deficit at present (reduction by US$1.4
million at start of project                                               million)
Distribution of 20,000 of land       not available                        26,804 ha distributed
All lease contracts signed with smallholders  not available               34% of land parcels distributed
All lease contracts registered with DOTMA   not available                 none registered
and DRN
15,000 distributed to smaliholders   not available                        19,264 ha
5,000 ha distributed for medium sized  not available                      7,540 ha
enterprises
75% of land distributed is given to  not available                        72%
smaliholders
Leases with medium sized enterprises  not available                       7,540 ha reconfirmed
covering 10,000 would be reconfirmed
4,500 beneficiary families with an average   not available                8,426 beneficiary families with an average
farm size of 3.3 ha                                                       farm size of 2.2 ha
Housing materials would be provided for up  not available                 304 families were provided with housing
to 400 relocated families
200 ha of land would be cleared      not available                        174 ha was cleared
15 estate nuclei would be privatized  not available                       8 nuclei were leased
Reduction of workforce of EEAs by 8,850    not available                  Reduction by 8,850
Social impact assessment study executed   not available                   not done
Leasing of 6 viable plantations to the private  not available             2 estates were leased
sector
Completion of plantation investment program  not available                Plantation program completed (US$2.1
(US$2.1 million)                                                          million estimated cost)
Average cocoa yields of over 600 kglha on   not available                 350 kg/ha
newly planted areas
125 breeding cattle imported         not available                        not imported
Develop land use plan                not available                        not developed
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Land Distribution                                  1.94           3.66            189
2. Labor Reduction & Support                          7.03           2.20             31
3. Mgmt. Reform Cocoa Sector                          4.74           4.32             91
4. Institutions & Support Services                    2.04           0.99             48
5. Project Preparation Facility                       1.50           1.14             76
Total Baseline Cost                                  17.25          12.31
Total Project Costs             17.25           12.31
Total Financing Required              17.25          12.31
Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (AP raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
tureCat~~~pry  JCB  --           Other~~                p~.. Ttl(ost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.50         0.00         0.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)
2. Goods                      1.50         0.70          1.70         0.00          3.90
(1.50)       (0.70)        (1.70)        (0.00)       3.90)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          3.40         0.00          3.40
Technical Assistance         (0.00)        (0.00)       (3.20)        (0.00)       (3.20)
Training and studies
4. Redundancy                0.00          0.00          0.00         6.70          6.70
Compensation
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          1.50         0.00          1.50
Refinancing PPF          (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.50)        (0.00)       (1.50)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.80         0.40          1.20
Incremental Recurrent    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.80)        (0.00)       (0.80)
costslCocoa
Purchases
SACs
Total                      1.50          0.70         7.90          7.10         17.20
(1.50)       (0.70)        (7.70)        (0.00)       (9.90)
Note: Figures in parentheses include contingencies and reflect the estimated amount to be financed by IDA.
Numbers do not add up due to rounding (the SAR provides information with one decimal only).
- 17-



Proect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival    e ! !
Expenditure Category                                                   NB-.F.      Totwcost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00          0.90           0.00          0.90
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.90)        (0.00)        (0.90)
2. Goods                        2.80           0.50          0.00           0.00          3.30
(2.80)        (0.50)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.30)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          3.80           0.00          3.80
Technical Assistance           (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.80)        (0.00)        (3.80)
Training and studies
4. Redundancy                   0.00           0.00          2.20           0.00          2.20
Compensation
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00          1.10
Refinancing PPF            (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.10)         (0.00)        (1.10)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          1.10           0.00          1.10
Incremental Recurrent      (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)        (0.00)        (1.00)
costs/Cocoa
Purchases
SACs
Total                        2.80      |    0.50          9.10           0.00          12.40
(2.80         (0.50)         (6.80)        (0.00)        (10.10)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
7 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I  t                        | .               .            Pergb d~~~~~~~~~Ap jra
CoMponent      A_ppial _IU _                                                           -      -
________  ___ _    IDA   IGovtE              CO- .               Povt. CL.;    O)A --OVL   C
1. Land Distribution     1.71      0.23                3.67                         214.6   0.0
2. Labor Reduction &     0.19      4.67      2.17                 0.64      1.56     0.0   13.7   71.9
Support
3. Mgmt Reform Cocoa     4.55      0.19                4.32                         94.9   0.0
Sector
4. Institutions & Support  1.88    0.16                0.99                         52.7   0.0
Services
5. Project Preparation   1.50                           1.14                        76.0
Facility
Total Project Cost       9.83      5.25      2.17    10.10        0.64      1.56    102.7  12.2  71.9
Component 3, part financed by the Govt: Includes US$156,000 to be provided by the private sector
Component 4, part financed by the Govt: Includes US$116,000 to be provided by the private sector
-18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Summary of Benefits and Costs: The following is a summary of the project's ex-post economic
and financial analysis made after the field observations during the ICR project mission to STP.
The financial analysis is based on five farm models representing the newly created land tenure
structure, in which the former estate workers became smallholders (with an average size of 1.6 ha,
2.6 ha and 3.1 ha per farm) and medium size farmers (with 31.2 ha and 125 ha respectively). A
sixth model representative of the pre-project big estate plantation managed by private firms under
a leasing contract (2,350 ha with cocoa) was considered to represent the pre-project scenario.
Aggregate results for the new structure including the 8,536 new small and medium size farms,
were considered to represent the "with project" scenario. It was then compared with the previous
situation in which the distributed 26,563 ha were controlled by 15 estate plantations for the
estimation of the overall project impact.
Financial Analysis. Crop budgets per hectare for cocoa consider three different technological
levels, and include banana and taro crops, as the main diversification activities. Farm budgets
were then estimated using soil use patterns and details provided by the project coordination unit
and the STP Land Reform Cabinet for each of the former 15 large plantations. Five crop models
and five farm models covered the universe of technology situations and groups of beneficiaries for
comparing the "with" and "without" project situations in order to estimate changes in family
household incomes. The financial analysis of the 5 farm models covering the most relevant
activities of the household units is summarized in the following Table 1.
Table 1: Financial Evaluation: Sample of Household Farm Models
Family Income      Returns to Fanily Labor per Day Worked
Type of Model      Farm Size     without      with      without       with       Percent
(ha)       project     project     project     project     Increase
Smallholder Farm       1.6   240              240          1          1.4          40
1         Far_2._20                           39 _1._4
Smallholder Farm       2.6   240              349          1          1.4          40
Smailholder Farmn      3.2   240              434          1          1.4          40
Medium size Farm       31.2   480             658          2          1.3          30
i
Medium size Farm      125     480             593          2          1.1          10
1/ Plantation workers benefiting with a small farm (up to 5 ha) were receiving a salary of 180,000 Db, equivalent to US$20 a
month, or US$I per day. Capataces or beneficiaries being assigned medium size farms (up to 150 ha) would receive a salary
twice as big as ordinary estate plantation workers.
- 19-



Models permit to estimate the effect of the APSDP project based on production and costs
estimations provided by research experts from the Poto-CIAT experimental station and by the
CINFORMA/AGRO.GES study on Comparative Advantages of different farm sizes. Yields and
price estimations were based on field observations and on the opinion of experts consulted by the
mission. Crop labor requirements, family availability and returns per family-day of labor were also
considered. The analysis confirmed that: (i) the land reform had positive effects on most
household financial incomes; and (ii) the marginal return to labor is higher than the opportunity
labor wage rate of STP.
According to the results obtained in the models the beneficiaries of land distribution are obtaining
at least the same family income-equivalent than before when working for a salary as plantation
employees. Additionally, since they are now independent farmers, they can have their family
working on the farm and get off-farm work at least on a per diem basis in nearby medium or big
size plantations, resulting in higher incomes than estimated in the models. Returns per family day
of work as a result of the project-financed land reform, at least ranged from about 10% to 40%
more than before. Even in the case of no off-farm employment, they are having at least an income
equivalent to their previous very low salaries. On a weighted average, their annual net on-farm
family income grew by 31%, from about US$242 to US$318. It can be concluded that even when
farmers are still living under extreme poverty and subsistence conditions they are better-off as
they can benefit with improved food security and higher income levels as a result of cash obtained
from cocoa plantations, diversified food crops production and the possibility of additional
off-farm work.
Economic Analysis.  The economic benefits of the project were primarily generated by
diversification into food crops production. Economic calculations included the cost of all project
components and the related NSPFA parallel project costs. Benefits only considered incremental
production on food crops since cocoa mantained its pre-project production levels. The overall
evaluation has been undertaken by aggregating individual fann model results multiplied by the
number of plots distributed represented by each model as shown in the following Table 2.
Farm size    Average Size (ha)  # of farms      Total area
(has)__                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
0.5 - 2.0 ha       1.6            3,456            5,530
2.1 -2.8 ha        2.6            3,936           10,234
2.9 - 5.0 ha       3.2            1,032            3,302
5.1-50 ha         31.2              56             1,747
50- 250 ha       125.0              46             5,750
Total                           8,526          26,563
Under these assumptions, the intemal economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at about
3,3%. Table 3 shows the aggregated benefits, project costs and the resulting economic indicators
(ERR, NPV) for the project. The main assumptions for the analysis were: (i) discount rate: 12%;
(ii) time horizon: 25 years; (iii) labor, input and output prices: constant first quarter 2001; and (iv)
constant exchange rate: 9,000Db per US dollar. The adjustments made for the economic analysis
only took into account the opportunity cost of labor since unemployment is wide spread in STP.
- 20 -



Since the project would not increase on- and off-farm employment in the country, a conversion
factor of 0,50 to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was used. The policy reforms and
the opening of the economy that have been taking place in the last decade, together with the open
market determination of the exchange rate reflecting its real value, leads to the conclusion that
domestic prices tend to correspond to border economic values.
APSDP Cashflow Model
With-                             With project
out                                (years)
Project
I to 20   1    2     3      4     5      6     7     8    9    10   20
Production
Cocoa                 2,072     -   -19   -22   -26   -29   -33   -37  -40  -44  -44  -44
Banana                    -     -    22    86   194   345   522   714  909 1,104 1,278 1,559
Taro                      -     -    22    87   197   334   496   658  820  982 1,123 1,297
Sub-Total Production   2,072     -   25   151   366   649   985  1,336 1,689 2,043 2,356 2,811
Production Cost       _____               _
Purchased Inputs    _                     _ 
Copper Sulphate        35      -    -0    -0    -1    -1    -1    -1   -1   -1   -1   -1
Cal                    12      -    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0   -0   -0   -0   -0
Endosulfate            34      -    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0   -0   -0   -0   -0 
Tenac                    1     -    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0    -0   -1   -1   -1   -1
Klerat                  2      -    -0    -1    -1    -1    -1    -2   -2  -2-   -2   -2
Fixed Costs           173      -      1     9    22    40    60    81  103  124  143  170
TransportCosts     _     -     -     8    33    75   131   197   266  336  406  467  558
Sub-Total Purch. Inputs   257    -     9    41    96   168   254   344  435  526  606  724
Labor                                                             I _ _   _                    I___
Fa_niiy Labour        406      -     7    36    87   154   232   315  397  480  553  659
Sub-Total Prod. Costs    663     -    15    77   183   322   486   659  832 1,006 1,159 1,383
APSDP Costs                  2,700 1,800 1,620 1,620   900   513   900  288  450=
NSPFA Costs                -     -      -     - 1,080 1,350 1,350 1,350 1,350  900        -    -
Sub-Total Other Costs      - 2,700 1,800 1,620 2,700 2,250 1,863 2,250 1,638 1,350        -    -
OUTFLOWS                663 2,700  1,815 1,697 2,883 2,572 2,349 2,909 2,470 2,356 1,159 1,383
Cash Flow              1,409 -2,700 -1,790 -1,547 -2,517 -1,923 -1,365 -1,573  -781  -313 1,197 1,428
IRR = 3.3%, NPV = -5,990.65
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
Sept. 1988             2 weeks   I TM
(Identification)                  I Economist
I Agriculturist
Feb. 1991                         TM
(Pre-Appraisal)                   N.A.
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1991               3 weeks   I TM
(Appraisal)                       I Agronomist
2 Economists
May 1992                4 weeks   I TM
(Effectiveness)                   2 Agronomists
I Land Distribution Specialist
I Agricultural-Economist
Supervision
July 1992                1 week   I TM                                HS             S
(Launching
workshop)
S             S
January 1993            2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
I Agricultural Economist
I Agronomist
August 1993             2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
1 Agronomist
I Economist
September 1994          2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
February 1995            1 week   I TM                                S              S
I Agronomist
I Operation Analyst
December 1995           2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
I Agricultural Economist
December 1996           2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
I Economist
I Privatization Specialist
August 1997             2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
I Agriculturist
March 1998              2 weeks   I TM                                S              S
I Agriculturist
I Environment Consultant
January 1999                      1 Economist                         S              S
I Sociologist
June 1999               2 weeks   I TM                                U              U
- 22-



November 1999         2 weeks   I TM                              S            S
I Economist
June 2000             3 weeks   I TM                              S            S
1 Team Assistant
I Sociologist
2 Agronomists
I Economist
December 2000               2   1 TM                              S            S
ICR
April 2001          2.2 weeks    I Agriculturist                 U             U
I Agricultural Economist
There is a serious disconnect between the ratings of the ICR mission and the regular Bank
supervision missions.  Bank supervision missions focused mainly on the land distribution
component and the agricultural sector administration and support services, which were financed
by the Bank, and less so on components financed by the other development partners. It was also
believed that the overall outcome of the project, as measured by the economic rate or return and
the fiscal impact on Government, would be positive. During much of the project cocoa
production increased and siginificant production increases were obtained with other crops
(especially bananas and tarot). It was only towards the very end of the project that the cocoa
prices fell sharply and the outcome of the project became uncertain. Given the satisfactory
progress on the land distribution component and the belief that the fall in cocoa prices was a
temporary phenemenon caused by events in Cote d'Ivoire, the rating was maintained (except for
June 1999).
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation            153.2                      484.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                  20.2                       63.7
Supervision                           116.1                      399.1
ICR                                       9                       26.5
Total                                 298.5                      973.9
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  *N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
M Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
? Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Gender                             OH OSUOM *N ONA
Ol Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
? Private sector development              0 H  O SU* M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
J Lending                                            OHS OS  *U  OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
- Preparation                                        OHS OS  *U  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
9 Overall                                            OHS OS * U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Agriculture in Sao Tome e Principe. Policy and Investmnent Options. Steven Kyle, June
1999.
* APSDP Project Completion Report. CINFORMA/AGRO.GES. Final Report. February 2001.
* Programa de Apoio as Medias Empresas Agricolas Santomenses (PAMEA), Cooperacao
Portuguesa - November 1998.
*  Projet de Privatisation Agricole et d'Appui au Developpement du Petit Paysannat (PPADPP),
Contribution a la Mission de Supervision de la Banque Mondiale. Rapport Preliminaire. FAO,
Investment Centre Division, September 2000.
*  Project Completion Report. Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1830-STP), World Bank -
November 1993.
*  Project Completion Report. First Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1825-STP) and
African Facility Credit (A-29-STP), World Bank - July 1994.
* Project Status Reports (PSR) APSDP, 1992 - 2001.
* Projecto de Privatizacao Agricola e de Desenvolvimento de Pequenas Propriedades,
Relatorio de Gestiao, Ministerio de Economia. Agosto de 1992 - August 2000.
- Reflexion Sur le Secteur Rural et contribution a l'elaboration d'une Politique de
DIveloppement Sectorielle pour STP. Mission Fran9aise de Cooperation et d'Action
Culturelle de STP - 2000.
- Reforme Fonciere: Garantie des Titres et Renforcement du Pouvoir Local. Ivon Pires et Jacky
Picard. Service de Cooperation et d'Action Culturelle de STP - 2000.
* Seguimento dos Agregados Agricolas. Relatorio, PNAPAF - July 2000.
* Staff Appraisal Report APSDP, World Bank, November 1991.
*  Supervision Reports, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires, 1992 - 2001.
*  Letter from Government providing comments on the Aide-memoire of the ICR mission, April
2000.
- 26-






MAP SECTION






+,,AL NI GER  CSA-D-g 640'                                                                                                  IBRD 23253
)1 ,ENIN? >               /'          .IATLANTIC  OCEAN
,_tCAMEROON                                      r0  MoPex                   /r;        lc01
ATLANrTIc        GABON                  IerFu
OCEAN                   >-                                  \1S\/,         F
.. ..  \co* alrF  a T
Mt tot"tf~             o * 4/          f/t2                      \
0v20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                   ec =em _  0N co
00020-                                                                                                                                   0O-- Mob  e 
3000= n            *na  g~, S
Lemb  ~    P    ~   ~   =   X   X   /   tono
6000                                                                                            Pero
\           <    R c nt.~~~~~~udo          no( 
6                 d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vne HerminiL '
4000~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
not  j  4    gQ                 0  \ as~~~~~~~grns' Tod*                    'O SAC OT~AN PRIIPE
X zJ g/ ;yt << \ i9tXsRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
Juliano d  cAXJto Crux    AND SMALfHOLDER
oo      SADEELOPMENT PROJECT
loop  A'IONYS  IN M ETERS
\    } lig                                             O     bL4J~~S OR TOWNS
8 A,,go a                      ICULTU         PROIECT PLANTATIONS
AN  SMALOLHOLEDENRA
,                                                               +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORTS
DEVELOPMAIN ROADS
Do' /ELEVAT$ --                                                                     INTERNATiONAL 30UNDARIES
1,000~~~~~~0
3000   RQI~AS ISLAND  I(WMETERS  8        onvenience of readers and isex ISi HYeyfr th intna MIeLIfEThER Wrl
Thib map ha5 been prepare by The Warld Bank's' staf exc/usivelv for the
-  _01_i_______7S__________Ths______s sedon the boundaries shown on this
O___________________                    ap da not imply, on th ipar;tof hOe QWoJrled 8arnlc   troup, any udgemen
-~~ ~~                                               ~         ~~~~~ 2  3  4    sch bonaries.
.             .~~~6f30                                   MILwES                     6Q40'
NOVEMBER I






_________________________                                                                                                                       IBRD   23252
7'1~111-  IGER        CH.D                    147044                                                                    70,
1.\8  NIGERIA  
NIGERIA j                                                                                            ATLANTIC OCEAN
__ _ i_CAMEROON
eBOM BOM ISLAND
'E0 8; EA.
ATLANTIC          GABON
OCEAN'
CONGC
.1040'                                                                                                                                                1 04
3 w 0n"'n'  ''~~~SNT, )ANT                                              w
-14o. 03                                                                                                                                              % 136'-
S\O TOM  AND PRINCIPE
PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
vA  -   rkao                AND SMALLHOLDER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(;-  8-     MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
-      AIRPORT
1'32'                                                                                                              0      TWS1032-
Wf                                ~~~~~~~o TOWNS
*     PROJECT PLANTATIONS
*     MAJOR DEPENDENCIAS
BONE DO JOQURI I.
0       i       2       3        4       5  KILOMETERS                                             ELEVATIONS IN METERS
|    ,            ,    ,,      t I  I                                            w50o)
O            1            2            3  MILES
This map has been prepared by rhe WorlIank's sttexclusvely far the                 -                       -ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
conveni.nce of readers and is exdusivef for the internal tse f te World                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bank GCoupW The denominations ued and the boundaries shown an this
apd do not knpb, on the por of The Wod Bha Group, any iudement
an the leAl* sttus of any teritry or ony endorsement or wcceptance of
=   702(il    such boundarfis.                             724'
NOVEMBER 1991



