Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9963-STP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 25, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I  *      *      -              .              .     9        3     



CURRENC   OIVLENTS
Curncy Unit = Dobra (Db) 1/
1987  1988  9I      1990  19909( pt-)
US$1.00 -   55   87    124   140   260
WEIGHTS AND MEASURE
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures
used in this report are metric.
DESCRIPTIVE GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
ADF           African Development Fund
ARC-Poto      Agricultural Research Center of Poto
BNSTP         Banco Nacional de Sio Tom6 e Prfncipe
CATAP         Centro de Aperfei9oamento Tecnica Agro-Pecuaria
(Agricultual Technical Trining Center)
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIF           Cost, Insunnce, Freig it
CP            Caixa Popular (Savings and Loans Institution)
DGA           Directorate-General of Agriculture
DSP           Directorata of Studies and Planning
EEA           Empresa Estatal Agrfcola (Publicly-Owned Estates)
EEC           European Economic Community
EEZ           Exclusive Economic Zone
ECOMEX        Empresa de Comdrcio Extemo
(External Commerce Company)
ECOMIN        Empresa de Com6rcio Interno
(Intemal Commerce Company)
FAC           Fonds Aide et Cooperation (France)
FFQ           Fair Fermented Quality (Cocoa)
FOB           Free on Board
GCAT          Gabinete de Coordenasao e Assistenpia Tecnica
(Cabinet for Coordination and Technical Assistance)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GTZ           Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation)
ICCO          Internatonal Coffee and Cocoa Organization
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          Intetnational Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MEAF          Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
NMMC          Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation
MSEE          Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment
PIP           Public Investment Program
SAF           Special African Facility
SAP           Structural Adjustment Program
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SIF           Social and Infrastructure Fund
STP           Sao Tome and Principe
UAP           Unidade de Apoyo ao Projecto
(Project Management Unit)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNFCD         United National Fund for Capital Development
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WFP           World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USL ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AriD PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEViLOPMENT
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                i-iii
I. BACKGROUND .1
II.  ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT.                                                                 2
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .                                     .                       4
A. Resources.                                                                    4
B. Production.                                                                   4
C. Farming Systems.                                                              5
D. Land Tenure.                                                                  8
E. Non-Crop Sub-sectors.                                                         9
F.      Agricultural Institutions and Support Services .10
G.    The Financial Sector ........ .....  ............                         12
H.     Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy ...            ....     13
I.     IDA's Agricultural Assistance Strategy ....              ..........      18
J.      Environmental Issues   ......              ..................           18
K.     Bank Group Operations  ......                .................           19
L.     Rationale for IDA Involvement  .....                .............        19
M.    Lessons learned from  Previous IDA Involvement  ...              ....    19
IV.      THE PROJECT .........                   ........................                 20
A.     Project Objectives and Scope  ....................                       20
B.     Summary Description .........................                            20
C.     Detailed Features  ............. ..                 ..........           21
D.    Technical Assistance, Training, Studies and Project.
Coordination  ..............................                            33
E.     Project Costs and Financing .....................                        34
F.     Procurement  ..........                    .............                 35
G.     Project Implementation .......................                           39
Thir report i baed on the findings of a preeapprisl mimion dat viited Sao Tome ma Prnipe in Februfwy. 1991, aM an appaial
mimion tt tooke place in June, 1991. The proappl mimion was comprised of Ma". P. Weibreuck (Minim. lader.
Agilural Economist), C. Culier (AFrAG Agrnomigt - Tree Crope) and M. Gbetflbo (AFrAG - Ecnomist). Durba the
I    mistion. Mr. E. raina  (Finanal Seclor Speciali) joined dhe tam, Ms. Caumc Hamm id Mr. L Neson
reviewed the deign of the project s weU as the financial analysis. Mr. 0. Schmlewer o reviewed the docuwent. Mr. M. L Ah-
Kee mtd in the preparation of the coad table. Mim. A. Colebt, E. Stm A. Bagai and E, Stanfod provided secrerl
auppot Ms. 1. Joyce and E. in ae the mansging Divsion Chief Pad Depaqent Dir, respectively. for td aiperatioc.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.     ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......                  ........   41
A.    Project Justification ..........                            41
B.    Past Financial Performance .....................   42
C.    Future Financial Performance ....................   42
D.    Determinants for Benefits and Costs .....     ...........   43
E.    Profitability ...............................   45
F.    Development Impact ..................           I ......    48
G.   Environment Impact  .........................    48
H.   Benefits, Risks and Safeguards .....       ..............   49
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                    .........   50
Annex I       Table 1: Production of the EEAs ..................   54
Table 2: Indebtedness of the EEAs ....      ............   55
Table 3: Structure of STP Export Taxes ....     .........   56
Table 4: Structure of STP Import Taxes ....     .........   57
Table 5: Public Sector Investment & Public Financing  ... .   58
Table 6: Agricultural Production Area and Employment Situation 59
Annex II      Table 1: Projected Yields of Major Crops ....    ........   60
Table 2: Farm Budget for 4 ha of Cocoa ....     .........   61
Table 3: Farm Budget for 10 ha of Coconuts ....    ......   62
Table 4: Farm Budget for 25 ha of Cocoa ....     ........   63
Table 5: Income Statement of Nuclei .. ............   64
Table 6: Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation:
Income Statement .65
Table 7: Income Statement of Uba Budo .66
Table 8: Income Statement of Bela Vista .67
Table 9: Timetable for Land Distribution .68
Table 10: Project Production Output .69
Table 1 l(a-b-c): Project Incremental Benefits, Costs and
Cash Flow .70
Table 12(a-b): Summary of Project Costs and Benefits from Revenue
Earning Entities .73
Table 13: Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis          75
Table 14: Fiscal Impact of the Disinvolvement of the
Government in the Agricultural Production Sector  76
Annex III     Table 1: Project Costs: Land Distribution Component ....  .   77
Table 2: Project Costs: Social Component ....    ........   78
Table 3: Project Costs: Smallholder/Cocoa Production Support  79
Table 4: Project Costs: Institutional Support Component . ..    80
Table 5: Summary Accounts Per Year ....        ..........   80
Table 6: Project Components Per Year ..............   81
Table 7: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category .83
Table 8: Financing Plan by Summary Accounts .84
Table 9 (a-b): Financing Plan by Components and Currency .   85
Table 10: Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements ....    87



Annex IV      Project Implementation, Monitoring and Procurement
Schedule .......................   88
Annex V       Organization of the Directorate-General of Agriculture   . . .   95
tnflex Vl     Support Program for the Privatization of the Agricultural
Sector ..  96
Annex VII    The Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation
Description of Services .........................    97
Annex Vffl   Technical Assistance, Local Consulting, Studies and Training   101
Annex IX      Ratio of Cocoa Export Unit Values .....      ...........   113
Annex X       Documents in the Project File  ......     .............   114
MAP           IBRD Nos. 23253 and 23252



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boffr:    The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Amount:      SDR 7.3 million (US$9.8 million equivalent).
:§=:         Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Projec
Descrition:  The project would increase and diversify agricultural production through
privatizing the publicly-owned agricultural estate sector and promoting
smallholder production. Privatization would increase production efficiency,
eliminate the financial losses of the estate sector and provide incentives to
diversify production into food and other crops. Secondary objectives of the
project are: rural poverty alleviation; diversified and sustainable growth in
agriculture; and environmental protection.
The Government wants to move from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented
and privately-operated agricultural sector. To meet this objective, the project
would help the Government to: distribute and lease (on a usufruct basis) a
major part of the publicly-owned agricultural estates to smallholders and
medium-sized farm and agro-processing enterprises; reduce the number of
underemployed and unproductive estate laborers and increase labor
productivity on the remaining (private) estates; lease the financially-viable
estates and nucleus processing facilities to the private sector; complete the on-
going investment in cocoa replanting and its maintenance until the. trees reach
maturity; and strengthen the agricultural support services and sectoral
administration to promote agricultural diversification. The Government would
seek additional parallel financing from other donors such as IFAD, CCCE,
FAC and GTZ to finance the research, extension and forestry components of
the overall agricultural sector program.
The proposed project components would be:
(i) Land Distribution: technical assistance to lease about 209000 ha of the
public estates to smallholders and medium-sized enterprises around private (or
privately-managed) nucleus processing and marketing units (US$1.9 million,
or 11.3% of project costs);
(ii) Labor Reduction and Economic Support Meaget. financial assistance to
the laborers leaving their permanent public service employment on the estates
and additional assistance in kind to those who settle on private smallholder
plots (US$7 million, or 40.7 % or project costs);
(iii) Operational and Management Refor-n of the Cocoa Sector: technical and
financial assistance to privatize cocoa estates and to introduce private input
supply and produce marketing through nuclei (US$2.7 million, or 15.7% of
project costs); and financial assistance to complete the investments and to



- ii -
maintain 1,500 ha of cocoa, replanted under the ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project at Uba Budo and Bela Vista estates, until the trees reach maturity in
1995 (US$2 million, or 11.8% of project costs).
(iv) Agricultural Sector Administration and Support Services: technical
assistance to strengthen the Directorate-General of Agriculture (DGA) and the
Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment in: agricultural planning;
sector administration; livestock extension; agricultural training; land use
planning and implementation; cadastral services; and monitoring of the social
impact of the project (US$2 million, or 11.8% of project costs).
The project would refinance the advance under the Project Preparation Facility
(US$1.5 million, or 8.7% of project costs).
Primary benefits of the project would be to: reduce the financial deficits of
the estate sector through reduction of excess labor and overheads; increase
domestic food production and reduce food imports, a sustainable saving of
foreign exchange - annual food production would increase by 65%; halt the
decline of export crop production and foreign exchange revenues - annua,
cocoa production would be expected to increase by 60% by the end of the
project; and protect forestry resources and the environment. Secondary
benefits would be to: create an independent farming community; reduce the
country's dependence on food aid; generate local entrepreneurship; develop
agricultural management capacity; diversify the economy; and increase
economic stability. Benefits to target beneficiaries would be to: provide
access to land; decrease their dependency on unsustainable wage income; and
upgrade their social environment. Institutional benefits would be to:
strengthen the planning and sector administration capacity of DGA; improve
the legal framework for agricultural development; and train private sector
staff.
Risks:       The major risks and the related measures taken to safeguard against them are:
(a) the Government's inability to maintain a macro and sector policy
environment conducive to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular the
exchange rate; this risk would be decreased through the implementation of the
second Structural Adjustment Program; (b) the possibility of a decline in
cocoa prices; the main benefits of the project would be generated by crop
diversification, in particular food crops; (c) the reluctarce of the private sector
to engage in agriculture; this risk has been examined in a sociological study
showing more than 70 percent of the estate laborers in favor of independent
farming. The project also helps the Government to contract a private firm to
manage the nuclei in case privatization is slower than anticipated.
Economic Rate of Return: 37%



- iii -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
lUS$ '000)
1. Inveotment Costs        LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
A. Equipment                  257     2,010    2.267
S. Vehicles                    22       198      220
C. Civil Works                 85       355      440
D. Technical Assistance       613     1,653    2.266
E. Training and Studies       153       680      833
F. Redundancy compensation    4,322   1,715    6,037
0. Production Investment      791       864    1.656
N. Project Preparation Facility  200  1,300    1.500
Total Investment Cost     6443      8,775   15.218
2. Incremental Recurren        3         3       371
2 t Y ! m~~An            237        134      37
Costs
Total Baseline Costs        6. eR0    8.909   15,589
Physical Contingencies        411       S80      991
Price Contingencies           511       158      669
Total Prolect Costs 1/    7602      9,647   17.249
FINANCING PLAN
IUS$ '0001
Private             %
IDA     Govt   WFP   Sector    Total   Total
Land distribution component    1,710     231        -       -   1,941    11.3
Sooial component                188    4,668   2,172             7,028    40.7
Smallholder and cocoa
produotlGci dupport component  4,550      34        -     156   4.740    27.6
Institutional support component  1,831    43        -     116   2.040    11.8
Project Preparation Facility   1,600                        -   1,500      8.7
Total                         _A,82   4 976   2,172      272   17.249   100.0
Percentage                     57%      28%    13%        2%    100%
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
IDA iSeal Yoar     1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997       1998
Annual             1.5 2/     2.4       2.3        1.6        1.0       0.7        0.3
Cumulative         1.5       3.9        6.2        7.8       8.8        9.5        9.8
I/    Of which US$0.5 million is taxes and duties.
a/     lcluding refinancing of PPP.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATiON AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGEOUND
Introduction
1.1    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) has requested IDA to continue its
financial support for the development of the agricultural sector by funding an Agricultural
Privatization and Smallholder Development Project. The project would help the Government
to provide land use rights to the private sector, privatize agricultural production, realize the
country's potential for diversifying its production base, accelerate growth of food crop
production, and maintain the most profitable parts of the cocoa replantings until the trees
reach maturity.
1.2    Although the technical results of the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project are
satisfactory and the project shows potential for positive economic and financial benefits on the
privately-managed Uba Budo and Bela Vista estates, low cocoa prices and continuous low
labor productivity cast doubt upon the future of many other agricultural estates in Sao Tome.
A cocoa sector study, carried out by the Government with IDA funding under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF),1/ shows that further rehabilitation of other agricultural estates is
not economically feasible. The study recommends distributing most cocoa estate land to
smallholders and medium-sized plantations, and creating private nucleus processing units to
provide marketing, input supply and technical services to smaHlholders.
1.3   In September 1991, the Governnrent established land distribution criteria and
procedures. At first, the land will be distributed on a long-term usufruct basis to farm
families. The Government will then introduce legislation into the National Assembly so that
the farmers could buy the land after a few years of cultivation. During the next five years,
the Government will also lay off all workers of public estates with voluntary departures and
payment of redundancy payments. The released workers will be able to obtain land under the
land distribution scheme.
1.4    Studies of the potential of smallholder and medium-sized farms have been carried out,
by consultants with PPF funds2/ and by the Mesquita Food Crop Development Project.3/
These studies include feasibility studies of typical smallholder farms and medium-sized
plantations. They conclude that diversification into some food crops and livestock shows
comparative advantages for Sao Tome, and potential for agricultural diversification and the
developmert of food crops exists on condition that: (a) the right macroeconomic framework
1/    Estudo sobre a reorganizgaao do sector asricola de exxortacao - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries,
April 1991 (PPF-026-STP).
2!     Etude sur la Modemisation de 1'Agicu turM A Sao Tons, Dendros S.A., January 1991.
3/     Rationalisation et modeniation de l'Agiiculturc A Sao Tome, Centre Mesquita, May 1991.



- 2 -
(appropriate exchange rate and elimination of all food subsidies) exists; and (b) investment
incentives are provided through private landownership or long-term leasing.
1.5    On the basis of ttese studies and after discussions with the Governiment, an IDA team
visited Sao Tonm. in June 1991 to design and appraise a project which would: (a) assist the
Government to distribute >"out 20,000 ha of publicly-owned agricultural land to smallholders
and medium-sized enterpE..:s; (b) provide financial assistance to lahorers who leave their
employment on the estates and assistance in kind to those who settle on private smallholder
plots; (c) support management reforms in the cocoa sector such as leasing viable estates to the
private sector, converting the remaining state-owned cocoa and copra processing facilities into
commercially viable and privately operated agro-enterprises and nmaintaining the recently
replanted or rehabilitated cocoa areas until the trees reach maturity; (d) provide agricultural
support services such as agricultural input supply, marketing and training to farmers; and (e)
assist the Directorate-General of Agriculture in planning, project management and livestock
extension.
11. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.1    The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe consists of two islands in the
Gulf of Guinea, about 200 miles off the coast of Gabon. The islands cover a total area of
about 1,000 square kilometers, with most of the 123,000 inhabitants living on the island of
Sao tome. GNP per capita in 1990 was US$340.
2.2    The diff,culties caused by the country's insularity have been compounded by a
colonial plantation economy concentrating on cocoa. The main economic activity is
agriculture, and cocoa production makes up 70% of the agricultural output. At present, about
46% of the cultivated land is used for cocoa which accounts for more than 60% of export
earnings. In 1990, the country imported US$7.8 million worth of food.
2.3    At Independence, in 1975, Sao Tome and Principe adopted a centralized economic
planning system. The Government nationalized most agricultural land and eliminated market
mechanisms. Inappropriate price and trade policies and an overvalued exchange rate further
discouraged agricultural production. Cocoa output declined from 10,000 tons in 1974 to
3,200 tons in 1989. Budgetary measures and declining cocoa prices caused negative
cashfiows and limited the estates' financial ability to maintain the cocoa plantations and
processing facilities.
2.4   In an effort to diversify the economy, the Government undertook an ambitious public
investment program between 1976 and 1983. The program involved substantial investments
in construction, beverages, poultry, fishing, and transport. These investments did not make a
significant contribution to the growth of the GDP, but created an unsustainable debt service
burden. The growing losses of both the state cocoa estates and the majority of the non-
agricultural public enterprises, combined with increasing debt service obligations, caused large
fiscal deficits.4/
I/     See Annex 1, Table 2: Indebtedness of the E2As.



- 3 -
2.5    Structural Adjustment. In mid-1987 the Government adopted a comprehensive
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) supported by Structural Adjustment Credits from IDA,
the Special African Facility (SAF),J/ the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the IMF.
France and Sweden have also supported STP's adjustment program. Central elements of the
policy were the correction of the most critical macroeconomic distortions and included a
substantial initial devaluation, as well as price and trade liberalization measures. In aedition,
the Government adopted and sustained a broad range of stabilization measures, including the
reorientation of the investment program towards investments with high economic return and
the rehabilitation of the existing econom;c and social infrastructure.
2.6    Exchanee Rate Policy. Since the start of the Structural Adjustment Program, the
Government nas adjusted the exchange rate, resulting in a cumulative real depreciation of
about 87% through September 1901. This has helped to reduce the financial losses on somt
cocoa estates, notwithstanding the fall in world cocoa prices (about 45% over the adjustment
period). The pursuit of a more realistic exchange rate policy (including two recent
devaluations of 21% and 40% in May and August 1991, respectively) has contributed to
reducing the gap between the official and the parallel exchangc rates to about 20%.
2.7    Trade and Pricing Policy. Since mid-1987, when the Government abolished the
monopoly of the parastatal trading company, ECOMIN, the private sector has assumed an
increasing role in exports and imports. Price subsidies on domestic and commercially
imported goods have beer 2li ninated.6/ On the basis of the provisional price index for Sao
Tome and Principe, it is estimated that inflation averaged 30% per year during 1987-1990.
The Government intends to embark on a financial sector reform program restructuring the
banking sector and reviewing the interest rate structure to achieve and maintain positive real
interest rates.
2.8    Balance of Payments. The current account deficit is estimated to have improved in
1990 to US$17.3 million, compared with US$21.5 million in 1989. Exports of goods and
services increased from US$11 million in 1989 to US$13 million in 1990, while imports of
goods and services decreased from US$46 million iii 1989 to US$41.4 million in 1990. The
official grants also fell from US$13 million to US$11 million. External debt service has risen
in 1990 to the equivalent of approximately 53% of exports and 14% of GDP.
2.9    Fiscal Adjustment. Efforts are being made to curtail the fiscal deficit through a more
modest current expenditure pattern, with a reduction of the civil service and rationalization of
the Public Investment Program (PIP). On the revenue side, the Government is committed to
increasing tax revenue through widening the tax base by modifying tax rates selectively.
A/     Credit 1825-STP in the amount of SDR 3.1 million and Credit A-29-STP in the amount of SDR 2.3
million.
A/     With the exception of food aid to plantation worlers, which is considered a salary supplement.



4-4.
11'. TE AGICULTURAL. STOR
A. Resource
3.1    The country's total land area is about 100,000 ha: 86% is on the island of Sao Tome
and 14% on Principe. The islands are of volcanic origin, and the peak altitude on Sao Tome
is 2,004 m. Population density is 107 inhabitants per km'. Considering the topography, this
density is high. Rainfall averages from 900 to 7,000 mm p.a., depending on altitude, and the
average annual temperature ranges from about 25°C at sea level to 18°C above 1,500 m.
Soils are generally of a volcanic nature, fertile and suitable for a wide range of crops.
Climate and topography limit most crop production to areas below an altitude of 800 m, about
half of the total land area. The rsk of severe soil erosion limits annual cropping to flat or
moderately sloping land, that probably amounts to not more than 20% of the total land area.
Primary and secondary forests cover most o. the areas above 800 m.
3.2    About 28% of the land is under natural torest cover and 31% under secondary forest.
Thirty-three percent of the land under crops is occupied by agricultural tree crops that protect
the soil against erosion.
Table 1.1 ILAND USE
Natural Forest                27,600 ha
Secondary Forest              31,100 ha 7/
Shade Tree and Cocoa Plantations    32,300 ha
Land Without Vegetation        8,100 ha
Water                           700 ha
Total                    99,700 ha
B. Production
3.3    The relative importance of agriculture is indicated by its contribution of about 30% to
the GDP in 1990, 95% to merchandise export earnings (US$6.9 million in 1990) and 50% to
employment. However, the sector provides only some 55% of domestic food requirements in
calory terms. Food imports in 1990 amnounted to 12,000 tons and about 23% (US$7.8
million) of total imports (US$35 million). Seventy percent of the food is imported on grant
terms.
3.4    Crop production represents about 70% of the sector's output, and livestock, fishing
and forestry represent about '0% each. The production structure is heavily dominated by
cocoa (60% of area cropped), followed by coconut (23%), oil palm (10%), coffee (2%) and
food crops (5%). Table 1.2 shows that perennial crop production decreased at an average
rate of 8% per annum during the 1980s. Production statistics for food crops are of poor
2/     It is difftcult to distinguish between secondaiy forest and abandoned shade trees inter-planted with cocoa.
More than 10,000 ha of cocoa have been abandoned.



- 5 -
quality.f/ It is estimated, however, that food crops (excluding bananas, which are mostly
inter-cropped with cocoa) are grown on only about 5% of the area under crops. There is no
significant domestic production of cereals, and annually more than 10,000 tons arc being
imported. Recent studies show some malnutrition in the rural areas, despite considerable
quantities of food aid. 2/
Table 1.2 AGWCILTURALPROOUCTION
Area (ha)    Productlon
1990    1980    1990
Cocoa                      22,000    7,035    3,200
Coffee                      1,000       72        7
Oil Palm                    3.500      462      270
Copra (coconut)             9,000    4,300    1,699
Bananas                     1,800            15,000
Bread Fruit                                   7.800
Taro                                         12,000
Vegetableo                                    1,220
Others                                        3,560
C.  Farminz Systems
3.5     There are five types of farms: parcels (0-3 ha), 10/ small farms (3 to 10 ha),
medium farms (10 to 50 ha), large farms (50 to 1,000 ha) and estates (> 1,000 ha). The
parcels have an average area of approximately 0.6 ha and are occupied by smallholders, who
grow food crops around the estate or in the vicinity of Sao Tome and San Antonio, where
they supply a large part of the fresh food market. The small family farms are located on
abandoned cocoa estates; cocoa is intercropped with food crops and farmers also raise small
livestock. Some of these farms are being rehabilitated with credit from the Caixa Popular
(savings bank). The medium farms are old cocoa estate subdivisions (dependencias), managed
by ex-managers or foremen of estates. They employ generally 10 to 15 plantation laborers,
who live on the farms. The existing processing infrastructure is mostly in bad condition but
some has been rehabilitated with loans from the Caixa Popular or from the Banco Nacional de
Sao Tome e Principe (BNSTP). The large farms are large 'dependencias l/ of the
1/      An Agricultural Census i8 being carried out. Results will be available in October 1991.
2/      World Bank: Social Sector Study, 1991.
101I    Parcels can be "glebas"--plots cultivated by independent farners whose ancestors have received the land in
use from PoitugueS landlords, or "lavras"-plota cultivated by estate workers who have been allo-wed to use
them temporarily by the estate management.
ill     "Dependencias' an: sub-divisions of large estates.



- 6 -
They are generally in poor condition. They have been allocated to the present holders in
compensation for services provided to the State. Several have been distributed to institutions,
such as the army, the political party, farmer organizations, etc. These farms employ between
50 and 300 people. Several occupants have started the rehabilitation of the land and the
buildings. Eight medium-sized and large plantations are being supported by the CCCE Medio
Porte project, which provides technical assistance, inputs on credit and marketing services to
the eight beneficiaries.
3.6    The agricultural estate sector is composed of 15 EEAs ( State Agricultural
Enterprises), which are parastatals operating under the control of the Directorate-General of
Agriculture (DGA). The estate staff and permanent workers are public employees. The
estates cover 68,000 ha, of which 35,000 are cultivated and 33,000 are either forest land or
abandoned because of their steep slopes. Approximately 21,000 ha are covered with cocoa.
They annually produce 3,500 tons, and yields average 170 kg per ha. 12/ A substantial
area is also covered with coconut trees yielding less than 200 kg of copra annually per ha.
Only 50 ha of coffee are in production, but some new oil palm plantations nave begun to
produce at Rebeira Peixe, and many estates produce commercial timber to augment their
revenue. Production in the estate sector has declined more than 50% since 1980. The main
reasons for this decline are: (a) the old age of the cocoa trees; (b) the lack of labor discipline,
short working days, high absenteeism and decreasing labor productivity under State
management; and (c) the lack of the financial resources for plantation renewal.
3.7    The estates also play a very important social role: they provide housing, distribute
World Food Program (WFP) food, organize kindergartens and schools, and provide medical
assistance for the laborers. Many workers were born on the estates and their families have
lived there for generations. Entire villages have been established on the estates, and religious
buildings have been erected. The estate sector employs some 10,000 people (including
occasional workers), and about 50% of the island's population lives on the estates. The
estates have also a considerable historical value. Many of them have valuable assets such as
for antique equipment and beautiful and splendid architecture. They are natural nexuses for
conservation now and tourism in the future.
3.8    Four estates operate with expatriate management under management contracts financed
by IDA, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and AfDB: Uba Budo, Bela
Vista, Santa Margarida and Monte Cafe. A rehabilitation scheme exists for each of these
estates. Three other estates have been leased to the private sector since 1990: Diogo Vaz,
Agostinho Neto and Santa Catarina. The eight remaining estates remain under the direct
control and management of the DGA. All estates continue to incur operational losses, the
total of which was estim.ated at Db 400 million (US$2.9 million) in 1990. la/ The cash
needs of the EEAs are mainly financed through credit from the BNSTP and, in some cases,
through direct support by the Government Treasury. Outstanding credit by the BNSTP to the
EEAs at the end of 1990 was estimated at more than Db 1 billion (US$ 7.1 million).
Moreover the EEAs under control of the DGA are in arrears with the payment of social
security contributions, export taxes and salaries.
la     For details on the production of the EEAs, see Annex 1, Table 1.
13/    Estudo sobre a reorfzanizao do sector aenicola de exportaceo - DAG, April 1991.



- 7 -
3.9    At present, the responsibility of the management firms contracted to operate state-
owned plantations is limited to the technical execution of a program agreed upon with the
Government and the financing institution. There are very few incentives for the management
firms to decrease operating costs. The management fees are considered expensive and there
are indications that investments have been undertaken in areas without much economic future.
The Government has reacted to this by leasing three estates to private firms taking over not
only the technical management but also the full financial responsibility of the estates.
However, the present lease contracts do not provide the necessary incentives to protect what is
left of the nation's estate assets, It has become clear that, mainly because of under-
capitalization and operational losses, the financial situation of the leased estates is precarious.
Diogo Vaz is financed by a foreign investor, but additional capital will be necessary to
continue the rehabilitation efforts. The liquidity position of Agostinho Neto depends on pre-
financing by an overseas cocoa importer and on a growing credit line from the BNSTP. The
leaseholders of Santa Catarina have not started operations because of lack of financing. The
estates under direct control of the DGA have almost ceased operations, as salaries for
harvesting and processing cannot be paid because of the lack of further credit from BNSTP
and the poor situation of the Government Treasury.
3.10   There is little potential to rehabilitate the estates further. The most promising parts of
the estates have already been rehabilitated, and replanting and maintenance costs in the
remaining areas are high. Therefore, the future of the estate sector is being questioned,
especially after the labor strikes of 1990-91, during which an estimated 10% of the cocoa was
not harvested. Measures to reduce production costs will have to be taken, and areas with
poor cocoa production potential will have to be put to other uses.
3.11   Several possibilities to save cocoa production from further decline have been studied.
Conserving the estate production structure in the whole sector is neither financially nor
economically feasible. Privatization (leasing or sale) of some of the estates would create
possibilities to increase production efficiency and labor productivity. A precondition would
be changes in the implementation of the labor law, allowing employers to lay off redundant
workers and increase the productivity of the remaining laborers. Only under these conditions
would the private sector be willing to invest in the agricultural sector. Distribution of the
estate land to smallholders and medium-sized planters is another possibility. However, if the
entire cocoa production area is distributed to smallholders with little experience in independent
farm management, the recently replanted and rehabilitated areas may be neglected because of
the initial low returns before the trees reach maturity.
3.12   The Government has therefore decided to lease the major part of the EEA land to
smallholders (mainly estate workers) and medium-sized enterprises and to keep the
economically most viable parts as estates leased to the private sector. The, distribution of the
estate land to the estate workers will be accompanied by the provision of adequate input
supply, marketing and other agricultural support services such as extension, training and
credit. The operation of input supply and marketing centers, created from the old estates'
nucleus processing and management facilities (nuclei), promises to be the most practical way
to address the needs of the smallholders. The privatized nuclei would guarantee a market
outlet for the smallholders' cocoa production and would sell inputs. The existing extension
services (Mesquita project) would provide technical assistance to the farming community
living in the vicinity. While the distribution of estate land is in progress, the nuclei would
also process the cocoa harvested by estate workers from the mind not yet privatized.



- 8 -
3.13   In the long run, there is little doubt that, for reasons of strong international
competition, declining cocoa prices and low labor productivity, the estate structure will
disappear on all but a few of the estates, and small and medium-sized private farms,
producing other crops, will take its place. The manner and the pace at which this transition
will be implemented is of crucial importance to the economy of the country and to the social
welfare of its inhabitants.
D. Land Tenure
3.14   Until June 1991, all estate land was owned by the State. Only seven percent of the
islands' total land surface was under private ownership. However, from 1985 until the end of
1987, 321 "concessions' totalling 1,000 ha have been allocated to private farmers or farmers'
groups. The beneficiaries have land use rights from periods of 2 to 20 years. The awarding
of these "concessions" regularized de facto land occupation situations, and most parcels
(mainly "glebas") do not exceed one ha.
3.15   Decree 34/88 of September 10, 1988, authorized the Government to remove 54
subdivisions or "dependencias' (totalling 9,000 ha) from 10 cocoa estates. 14/ This land
has since been leased to 130 beneficiaries, for periods ranging from 5 to 20 years. The land
remains the property of the State and the sale or lease of the land is illegal. In 1989, an IDA-
financed study of the land tenure situation made proposals concerning clear criteria and
procedures for allocating land on a usufruct basis. These proposals have recently been
submitted to the legislative bodies. In June 1991, the National Assembly passed a new land
law. In September 1991, the Government has issued new and distribution criteria and
procedures (paras 4.6-7).
3.16   The land tenure situation is now as follows:
Table 1 .3 LAND AREA BY TYPE OF TENtRE SnlUATION
(in ha)
Tenure Tve             Cultivated   Not Cultivated    Total
Estate land              37,150         28.500  e6,650
Private fleased) land     8,250          2,250  10,500
Traditional private land   4,000         3,000    7,000
Other public land              -        16,550  16,550
Total                 49400         S0300  99.700
3.17   At present, land allocation is carried out under the responsibility of three entities.
The "Development Bureau", attached to the Prime Minister's Office, allocates the land and
delivers the usufruct titles; the criteria and conditions applied are not clear. The Cabinet for
Coordination and Technical Assistance (GCAT), part of the DGA, is the executing agency for
the land tenure operation and is in charge of the instruction of requests and technical
assistance to some 50 farms. The cartography service of the Ministry of Social Equipment
at    Depndancia nre sub-divisions of large etates. Many of those depandencirx were, before Independence,
individual plantations and have lving questr, a processing unit and other facilities.



- 9 -
and Environment is responsible for the demarcation of the land allocated since 1988; until
now, its only contribution has been to provide the prospective user with a photocopy of the
map of the plot.
3.18   As noted above, the criteria used to allocate land are unclear. Decree 34/88 provides
for land allocation by public auction, but no land auction has ever taken place. The
distribution of the land allocated so far has been extremely skewed: 71% of the beneficiaries
have been allocated 2 percent of the distributed land, while only 10% of them have received
86% (Table 1.4). The occupants of the land are from widely differing backgrounds. Most of
them have acquired technical skills and are somehow connected to the property-i.e., de facto
occupants, ex-managers, ex-laborers and army personnel. Their level of competence in
farming apparently presents no constraints to increasing the production on the allocated land.
However, only a fraction of the allocated land is being cultivated. Large areas are
inaccessible by road. Most beneficiaries have neither the management nor the financial
capacities to cultivate the large areas they have obtained. 15/ The beneficiaries of small
plots, however, have succeeded very well in increasing food crop and livestock production.
Table 1.4 SIZE AND NUMBER OF PLOTS ALLOCATED SINCE 1988
Size  Number  Total Area    Averaae Area
(ha)             (ha)          (ha)
Parcels           0-3     308        178           0.67
Small Farms      3-16      58        445           7.69
Medium Farms    15-30      26        843          32.46
Large Farms      50+       44      8,868         201.55
E.    Non-Crop Sub-sectors
3.19   Animal Production. The country has great potential for animal production because of
its favorable micro-climates and the absence of major pests and diseases. Livestock can be
raised on the grasslands under coconuts, keeping the grasses short and facilitating the copra
harvest. Before Independence, more than 8,000 head of cattle were kept on the islands, and
most estates were self-sufficient in meat. This stock has been almost entirely consumed. The
country has a comparative advantage and could sustain enough cattle to meet the consumption
needs of its population. Export of livestock and meat products would not be financially
feasible. Quality breeding material (principally cattle) needs to be imported from the African
mainland in order to re-establish the stock. The islands have potential to produce sufficient
animal feed. Small animals, such as goats, sheep, chickens, pigs, etc., show great potential
for development on small farms. Although the African Swine Pest outbreak of 1979 reduced
the pig population by 3,500 animals, traditional disease-resistent and productive stock in three
regions has been preserved.
3.20   Fisheries. Fish production averages 2,500 tons annually, 90% of which is caught
through artisanal fishing. The sector employs approximately 10% of the active population.
Annual fish consumption per capita is estimated at 20 kg, which is low compared to other
JJ/    As shown in Annex T.ble 4, cocoa production with low technology and paid laborers is also not vety
profitable.



- 10 -
island economies. The total annual fishing potential of traditional fisheries is estimated at
6,000 tons. The industrial fishing potential in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of STP is
not very high because the continental shelf around the islands is small. Nevertheless, during
the 1970s, the annual industrial catch of the Portuguese fleet operating from STP was
estimated at 15,000 tons, caught mainly in the waters which now belong to the EEZ of the
African mainland coastal countries.
3.21   There are at present 2,500 artisanal fishing vessels, 600 of which are equipped with
outboard motors. Artisanal fishing, however, is very inefficient, due to the poor quality of
the vessels (hollowed-out tree trunks lasting only two to three years), low daily catch per
vessel (20 kg maximum), primitive fishing techniques, and the impossibility of moving further
than 10 miles from the coast. There is a potential domestic market for at least 5,000 tons of
fish per year, and landed catch in recent years has been no higher than 50% of the potential
demand. Semi-industrial fishing (12 vessels of 15 m length) appears to be financially viable.
3.22 Forestry. Sao Tome and Principe has important forest resources: 28% of the two
islands are covered by untouched natural forests. Their conservation is due to their physical
and economical inaccessibility. On the island of Principe, there are some very rare and
exclusive birds, plants and tree species in the natural forest areas. Secondary forest
formations cover approximately 31 % of the total land area; they have been formed through
the cutting of natural forest to allow agriculture and livestock production. Agro-forestry
formations exist also in the cocoa and coffee plantations, where old trees have been preserved
and Erythina sp. has been planted as shade trees and nitrogen producers. Shade tree
management is necessary for crop husbandry purposes, and overgrown shade trees are used as
fuelwood for cocoa drying.
3.23   The forest is vital to the country, providing a sound environment as well as producing
timber and fuelwood. The sector is estimated to produce annually 5,400 m3 of sawn wood
and 170,000 m3 of fuelwood for cooking and cocoa drying. The potential annual supply
under a sustained yield regime would be between 70,000 and 105,000 m3 of commercial wood
and between 43,000 and 65,000 m3 of fuelwood. This means that, although the total
sustainable wood supply is sufficient, there is a disequilibrium between commercial and
fuelwood supply which needs to be addressed. The productivity of forest exploitation is very
low. Charcoal carbonization rates are less than 15%. Forest exploitation is controlled by the
cocoa estates on their land and by DGA in the other areas. Twelve obsolete sawmills are in
part-time operation. The Forestry Service of the DGA has responsibility for the management
of forests, but it has only two staff.
F. Agricultural Institutions and Support Services
3.24 The Directorate-General of Agriculture (DGA). The principal responsibility for the
sector rests with the DGA. It is in charge of agricultural policy formulation and
implementation, the provision of technical support services for agriculture, and the
supervision of the cocoa estate sector. Because of the sector's importance in the nation's
economy, the DGA has been attached to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance.
DGA has a Study and Planning Department (DSP), a GCAT responsible for implementing the
land distribution program, a Research Center, an Agricultural Extension Service, a Livestock
Departnent, a Forestry Service (para 3.23), and a Project Management Support Unit (UAP)
which does the follow-up of the cocoa investment projects. The country has two professional



- 11 -
training centers (Bela Vista Agricultural Training Center and CATAP). The most important
units are described below. 16/
3.25   The Study and Planning Department is a small unit within DGA in charge of studies
and planning. It has three technical staff, and its capabilities and output are limited. The
staff needs additional theoretical and on-the-job training in agricultural economics, planning,
programming and monitoring.
3.26   The Cabinet for Coordination and Technical Assistance (GCAT). GCAT has been
created to assist the beneficiaries of the land allocation scheme. However, because of unclear
terms of reference and lack of human and financial resources, it has not been
able to assist the farmers except in some basic registration. With review of its terms of
reference and strengthening of its management, GCAT could play a key role in the
implementation of the land allocation program.
3.27   The Agricultural Research Center of Poto (ARC-Poto). The ARC-Poto has, until
very recently, been inoperative. The Center has now received the necessary personnel and
equipment through the Cocoa Rehabilitation Program financed by CCCE, IFAD and IDA. Its
activities are: production of cocoa seeds, agro-chemical analysis, and adaptive research on
fertilizer and herbicide use, crop protection, and food crops.
3.28   Agricultural Extension. The Mesquita Food Crop Development Center provides
agricultural extension to small farmers. It assists 2,250 small farmers to produce food crops,
mainly vegetables. Its primary contribution is the supply of seeds, agricultural inputs and
extension advice. Since 1989, it has started to carry out experiments introducing food crop
varieties from the African mainland. Expansion of its activity range is envisaged, through the
creation of three field extension centers. Mesquita receives important support from Fonds
Aide et Cooperation (FAC), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and
the United Nations Fund for Capital Development (UNFCD). The CCCE-financed Medio
Porte project provides extension to selected medium-sized farmers.
3.29   Livestock Department. The Livestock Department has a competent technical team. It
provides assistance to small farmers mainly, for raising pigs and for development of small
ruminants. It operates almost exclusively within the framework of the UNDP-sponsored
Livestock Development Project ending in 1991. The Department has participated in several
initiatives to improve the breeding stock of cattle on publicly-owned estates and to revive the
beef production. Many animals have, however, died because of lack of care and attention by
the estate management.
3.30   Agricultural Training. Training in agriculture is provided by the Bela Vista
Agricultural Professional Training Center, financed by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), Portugal and the Government, and by the CATAP
Agricultural Technical Training Center. Bela Vista caters to the needs and upgrading of
agricultural technicians in agriculture, accounting, mechanics, livestock, etc. Its objective is
the training of 190 agricultural technicians over a period of two years; students must have
completed seven years of primary school. It has already enrolled 40 young men and 20
161    An organogram of DAG is prsented in Annex VI.



- 12 -
young women, 35 of whom have passed the final examinations. The CATAP training center
has trained more than 500 young farmers in farming techniques and basic far.n management.
Both centers, Bela Vista and CATAP, are highly respected and fulfill a very important role.
3.31   FMrm   As.ciations. Both Mesquita and Clusa, a United States Non-Government
Organization, aim at developing farmers' associations. Mesquita is assisting five associations
technically, while Clusa covers the samne five associations at the organizational level. The
cocoa producers/exporters are also in the process of creating an association to promote their
interests and to engage in common storage activities.
3.32   World Food Program. Sao Tome and Principe benefits from considerable amounts of
food aid. In 1990, food aid amounted to 9,000 tons (US$4.6 million or US$40 per capita).
Commercial food imports amounted to 3,500 tons (US$1.8 million). Food aid provided by
donors other than WFP is sold by the Government through ECOMIN at CIF prices plus local
distribution costs. The World Food Program (WFP) supplies 3,500 tons of food aid yearly;
this food is donated to schools, hospitals and other social institutions. A substantial amount is
supplied to the cocoa estates as salary supplements to the estate workers, who are entitled to
receive 1.25-2 kg per workday in food at less than 20% of its market value; this subsidy is
approximately the equivalent of their monthly salary. The estates can keep 50% of the sales
receipts of the food to help pay for the maintenance of their social infrastructure and the
provision of such social services as schools, kindergartens and health care. Fifteen percent is
used for food crop development purposes, and the rest is managed by the WFP to improve
school infrastructure and to support food crop development through other institutions. The
management of the estates has become dependent on WFP aid, as the availability of this kind
of assistance is an incentive for the workers to stay on the estates. It is, however, also a
disincentive for local food production.
G. The Financial Sector
3.33   The Banking System. The banking system of STP consists exclusively of the Banco
Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe (BNSTP), which was organized as a multi-purpose bank.
BNSTP is the country's central bank, managing external debt and foreign reserves and
controlling monetary and credit policy. It is the sole domestic source of commercial credit,
although largely for the public sector, and, until recently, provided some limited development
financing. Organized as a subsidiary of the BNSTP, the Caixa Popular (a savings and loan
institution) was set up in 1989 to mobilize small-scale domestic savings and to channel these
funds into small-scale productive operations and housing. The banking system is faced with
considerable loan default by state enterprises, and a restructuring of the banking system
separating commercial from central banking activities is under way. BNSTP's role will be
limited to that of central banking. In addition, the Government has decided to privatize
commercial banking and allow foreign majority ownership; it is at present discussing possible
joint ventures with foreign bankers. The Caixa Popular will become an autonomous
institution mobilizing savings from rural branches and channeling these to priority investments
in the private sector.
3.34 The Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIFm. The Social and Infrastructure Fund was
created by Presidential Decree in December 1988 to: (a) mobilize resources, on behalf of
STP, from the international donor community; (b) administer and finance projects and actions
in the social and infrastructure sectors; and (c) provide investment financing for the private



- 13 -
sector. Until now it has supported school textbook printing and distribution, education
planning and management, malaria and endemic disease control, water supply rehabilitation,
and public market development. SIF has also financed a few private sector projects. IDA
supports SIF's operations through two Multi-Sector Projects.
H. Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
3.35   The Government's objectives are to diversify and increase agricultural production,
including livestock and fisheries production, as well as to increase incomes, rural
employment, nutrition and foreign exchange earnings. Given the sector's role, its physical
potential and constraints, the short- and medium-term strategy for the agricultural sector aims
at:
(a)    promoting the development of a dynamic agricultural sector by removing the
constraints to agricultural diversification and growth imposed by the present
macro and sector policy framework (over-valuation of the exchange rate and
land tenure legislation, in particular) and by creating production incentives;
(b)    developing, through the provision of land to private individuals and
enterprises, a private farm sector engaged in food and export crop production
as well as in animal production;
(c)    diversifying agricultural production, including food crop development;
(d)    increasing the profitability of the agricultural estates by privatizing
management and increasing labor productivity;
(e)    sustaining development of fisheries and livestock as well as conserving the
forest resources;
(f)    establishing effective technical and financial support services for the private
farm sector; and
(g)    strengthening Government capacity for agricultural policy formulation,
investment planning and development monitoring.
3.36   Development Policies. The Government's agricultural development policy focuses on:
(a) implementing macro and sector policy reforms, in particular, a market-based exchange
rate and the privatization of the sector through land distribution and the development of viable
smallholdings and medium-sized farms; (b) rehabilitating parts of selected private cocoa
estates and cocoa processing units in order to preserve export earning potential; (c) promoting
food crop and animal production in the small- and medium-scale farm sector, through
adaptive research and extension and through the elimination of food subsidies; (d) diversifying
export production through marketing arrangements with foreign importers; (e) increasing
exploitation of the fisheries resources through support to artisanal fisheries; and (e managing
forest resources so as to satisfy internal demand on a sustainable basis and to protect the
primary forests.



14 -
3.37   Policy Issues. Macro policy issues of crucial importan:e for agriculture include the
exchange rate system, liberalization of import and export trade, and de-control of agricultural
product and factor pricing. Within the framework of SAP I and II, the Government has
initiated steps to address these issues. The Action Plan for implementing SAP includes
measures to remedy sector policy constraints, including the following: (a) agreement on the
agricultural PIP; (b) foreign exchange retention by cocoa exporting enterprises; (c)
simplification of the cocoa export taxation system and reduction of the export tax rates; and
(d) changes in the land tenure system that will facilitate private farm development.
3.38   Lhe Government has attached the DGA to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Finance in order to assure a better coordination between macroeconomic and agricultural
sector policies. In June 1991, the Government passed a land law which allows several forms
of private utilization of land. In September 1991, it established land distribution criteria and
procedures. Privatizing the agriculural estate sector has been initiated through leasing of
some estates to private operators and lease negotiations concerning two other estates have
started.
3.39   One outstanding issue involves the substantial subsidies on food provided by the
World Food Program. While the sale of other aid-financed food imports takes place at CIF
world prices, significant quantities of food supplied under WFP grants are sold at highly
subsidized (83%) prices to estate workers. The objective of this program is to provide
incentives for estate workers to remain with the estates, but the supply of such cheap food to
such a large proportion of the population severely decreases the incentives to produce food
locally. The Government intends to eliminate these subsidies in tandem with the evolution of
the land distribution scheme.
3.40   The Cocoa Sector. The Government began to rehabilitate cocoa and coffee production
in 1988, through management contracts with expatriate private enterprises on five cocoa
estates (representing 10,000 ha, or 40% of the cocoa production area). 17/ The
effectiveness of the approach adopted (costing more than US$30 million over eight years for
the provision of technical assistance and investment capital) should become apparent within a
few years. The technical results obtained on the estates assisted under the IDA Credit 1830-
STP are encouraging. The financial results have, however, been less satisfactory to date,
mainly due to the drop in international cocoa prices and the low labor productivity on the
estates. In 1990, three additional estates were leased temporarily to private foreign and local
companies; two of these lease contracts are operational at present.
3.41   In 1991, a cocoa sector study has been carried out by the Government. On the basis
of its findings, the Government has formulated a general program to restructure the
management of the cocoa sector. Essentially, the program will focus on:
(a)    maintaining the rehabilitation efforts on the most promising parts of the estates
under private sector management;
1f/    The management contract on Agua Ie esa has bcen discontinued by the Govemnment in June 1991.



- 15 -
(b)    dividing and allocating several estates to smallholders or medium-sized farms,
while transferring existing processing facilities as nucleus entities to the
private sector;
(c)    contracting with a private estate management company to: (i) operate the
nucleus processing facilities while they await privatization, and (ii) provide the
necessary input supply and output marketing services to smallholders after
they have taken over the estate !and and cocoa trees;
(d)    reviewing and, to the extent necessary, modifying the existing estate lease
contracts in order to create incentives for proper development and to minimize
the risk of degradation of the national assets represented by these estates;
(e)    r6ucing the labor force in line with the land distribution and privatization of
the estates, transferring labor from the public to the private sector, and
establishing an appropriate legal framework governing the relationship
between maanagement and labor; and
(f)     , ansferring from ale estates to the Government (or to other institutions in the
private sector) the financial responsibility for providing social, health and
education services to the workers.
3.42   Food Crop D      ovep   t. The small- and medium-sized farm sector will be the
engine for growth in the food crop sector. Sao Tome could produce a multitude of food
crops. A recent IFAD-financed study shows that the average independent small farmer
diversifies into nine different crops and has twelve diff.-rent sources of revenue.L1/ Most
of the 370 small- and medium-sized parcels, or 5% of t e recently distributed land, are
cultivated with food crops. Therefore, the implementation of the land distribution scheme is a
necessary condition for growth in the food crop sector. Further development of food crops,
as well as of export crops, will require support fiom agricultural adaptive research and
extension.
3.43   Export Crop Diversification. Diversification possibilities into export crops other than
cocoa have been examined in several studies since the 1930s, as well as in a recent study
financed by IDA. 19/ These studies mention possibilities to expand production of spices,
fruits, vegetables and medicinal plants. Some estates are already diversifying into coffee,
pepper, oil palr' and flower production. Divetsification into other export crops would not be
viable without effective marketing arrangements with overseas buyers. Production potential
certainly exists, but the isolation of the islands and poor communications mandate, for most
crops, an integration of production and marketing. Marketing is the main constraint. The
responsibility for export crop diversification will, therefore, be fully entrusted to the private
sector. The Government will encourage joint ventures between domestic producers and
overseas marketers.
18/    Cultures Aiimentaircs de Sag Tome e Prineive, Mesquita, Food Crcp Development Project (IFAD), April
1990.
19/   PEOsa21& for the Economic Development of Sao Tome and Prncipe, Fundacion Chile, Prelinary Report,
August 1991.



-16-
3.44   &- -     Adaptive research for foodl crops has started with identification of suitable
crops and production systems for private farmers and with adaptive experiments of food crop
seeds from COte d'lvoire. Poto research station and at FAC/IFAD-financed Mesquita project
are deeply involved in the experiments. Both institutions will handle seed multiplication for
food and export crops. Moreover, research efforts will continue to identify suitable crop
varieties, production techniques and crop protection measures.
3.45   Agricultural Extension. Three centers of the Mesquita project will provide extension
of the adaptive research in food crops. Mesquita will be further strengthened to carry out all
agricultural extension activities for small farmers--including cocoa production, animal
production and agro-forestry. Once the land distribution program is effective and settlement
has started, the extension service will help the settlers to run and develop their farms.
Further training will be provided by CATAP and the Bela Vista Agricultural Professional
Training Center.
3.46   Credit and Financial Services. More commercially-oriented financial services and
agricultural credit for the private farm sector are required. Given the size of the economy
and of the agricultural sector, a specialized agricultural bank would not be a viable
proposition, but a special unit of a private commercial bank might suitably carry out the
operations related to agricultural credit. The Government is reforming the financial sector to
encourage such a development.
3.47   Processing and Marketing. Probably most important for agricultural growth is the
availability of internal marketing channels and transport facilities. Cocoa and copra
processing plants will be upgraded; construction and improvement of both trunk and feeder
roads will stimulate food crop marketing. This could be done by redesigning existing
agricultural development projects. The construction of feeder roads will also help to open up
areas which have been abandoned because of their isolation and might encourage the
migration of farmers and the creation of medium-sized farms. Direct links with overseas
buyers could stimulate the production and export of products with a small but profitable
overseas market.
3.48   Development of Animal Production. In the short term, the strategy for the
development of animal production will be to reproduce imported and selected indigenous
animals on local farms in order to improve the existing local stock. In the long term, a zoo-
technical experimentation program will identify the species which have the most potential to
adapt well to the ecology of the islands and give the highest return in terms of reproduction,
production (meat, milk, hides, eggs) and economic and financial profitability. The following
species are expected to be suitable for the islands: N'Dama and Baoule (West Africa), Kouri
(Chad) and Foulbe (Cameroon) cattle; dwarf goats from Guinea; Djalonke sheep from
Guinea; and Rhode Island Red, White Leghorn and New Hampshire chickens. The local pig
and the large white Yorkshire pig are very well adapted to the islands. Breeding of the
species selected will be done by private farmers or enterprises. All animal feed and
composites can be produced locally.
3.49   Development of Fisheries. The strategy for the development of fisheries production
is, in the short term, to study the possibility of introducing larger vessels, comparable to
Senegalese fishing boats, and to improve the port infrastructure at Neves. In the medium
term, and if the introduction of larger vessels is successful, boat building by the private sector



17 -
could become a viable proposition and a training program for fishermen could be launched.
In the meantime, a Master Plan for the development of semi-industrial fishing is in
preparation and the results of this study will be used to formulate a development strategy. If
both artisanal and semi-industrial fishing could develop and successfully exploit the full
fishing potential in a sustainable way, there will be scope for a small industrial fishing plant
on the island.
3.50   Development of the Forest Resources. A Study of Supply/Demand for Primary
Forest Products2=/ has analyzed the size and development potential of the country's forest
resources. The country consumes at present approximately 170,000 m3 of fuelwood per year.
The forestry sector annually provides fuelwood for drying cocoa (14,300 m3), for household
cooking purposes (135,000 m3) and for baking (4,200 m3). It also supplies 9,000 m3 of sawn
logs for domestic construction purposes to the 15 sawmills on the island. The consumption of
fuelwood is larger than the country can afford to avoid degradation of its natural resources
(consumption of 160,000 m3/year vs. sustainable production of 43,000-65,000 m3). The
potential for construction and furniture wood production is, however, much larger than the
actual consumption (consumption of 9,000 m3/year vs. sustainable production of 70,000-
105,000 m3).
3.51   The strategy to develop and preserve the forest resources will focus on: (a) the
protection of all undisturbed primary forest (to be set aside as a Nature Reserve); (b) the
management on a sustainable yield basis of the secondary forests (including those in the cocoa
areas); and (c) the careful selection of species to be utilized for construction, furniture and
fuelwood. Greater emrphasis on agro-forestry activities, as components of the smallholders'
farming systems, will be needed in order to meet a possible increase in fuelwood demand.
More fuel-efficient cooking stoves are to be introduced into the households and more fuel-
efficient driers installed in the cocoa processing centers. For the time being, a considerable
volume of potential saw timber will have to be used for fuel, and it will not be possible to
export timber to increase foreign exchange earnings.
3.52   The Government will update and implement the existing land use plan and introduce a
forestry law based on the FAO draft law. DGA will develop an operational forestry service
that will introduce appropriate stumpage fees and improved harvesting techniques for
secondary forest trees and shade trees. The forestry department will, in collaboration with
NGOs, support the creation of tree nurseries by the private sector or the communities.
3.53   $-trengthening of the Agricultural Administration. DGA's capacity for agricultural
policy formulation, public investment and expenditure planning and monitoring and
supervising the public estate sector is very limited. DGA will need technical assistance and
training over a considerable period of time. Also, DGA will review its organizational
structure in the light of its diminishing involvement in production and the increasing
importance of ensuring adequate technical support services to farmers. DGA will prepare and
implement an appropriate technical and higher-level in-service training program to enhance its
administrative capacity and reduce its dependency on foreign expertise.
20/    Study of SuD.OY and Demand of Primar Forest Products, Interforest AB, June 1990.



*18 -
1. IDA's Agricultural Assistance Strategv
3.54   Support to the implementation of the objectives and strategies outlined in the previous
sections constitutes IDA's short- and medium-term assistance strategy. It comprises the
following three main elements:
(a)    sectoral policy adjustments: liberalizing trade in agricultural inputs and
produce, applying a coierent land tenure policy, revising production
incentives, reducing food subsidies, transferring estate management and
ownership to the private sector, impiementing a forestry code, and planning
land use;
(b)    financial and technical support for: smallholder development, land
distribution, maintenance of the rehabilitated cocoa areas, and food crop and
animal production development; and
(c)    strengthening the agricultural policy for-nulation, the planning and
management capacity of the DGA, and the institutions involved with
agricultural and animal production research, extension, training, land tenure
reform, estate management, and forest protection.
J. Environmental Issues
3.55   At present, agricultural activities in Sao Tome and Principe are not environmenmlly
damaging. No large-scale land clearing, causing soil degradation, is taking place or is
planned. Cocoa drying consumes fuelwood, but new investments in cocoa drying equiprment
will save energy and fuelwood. A land use plan, protecting primary forest reserves, wlhl be
implemented. The forestry service is being strengthened to enable it to oversee forest
management and utilization. Reinvestment by farmer communities in forestry is plannel.
Use of agro-chemicals in p!mntation management is not very widespread. Nevertheless, any
IDA assistance to this sub-sector would have to ensure proper monitoring of the use of agro-
chemicals.
3.56   The high volume of fuelwood consumption is cause for concern because wood suitable
for higher-value uses is being used to meet fuel demand. As outlined above, Government
forestry policy aims to decrease fuelwood consumption and to increase supply. Privatization
of land will also be accompanied by regulations on the cutting of trees and the obligation to
replant trees, and by legislation to protect the forests. In the long run, secure private land
tenure will encourage investment in trees. Awareness of the necessity to protect the
environment will be stimulated through extension activities and, in the longer run, the
development of ecological tourism. Nevertheless, there is a need for proper monitoring of
forest management.
K. Bank Group Operations
3.57   Although STP joined the Bank and IDA in 1977, it did not become a borrower until
1985, when a modernization line of credit (Cr. 1590-STP; US$5.0 equivalent) was approved.
It supported a number of institutional reforms and covered the foreign exchange costs of small
investments in agriculture, transport and energy. It also financed technical assistance to help



- 19 -
the Government prepare and implement its first adjustment program. In 1987, IDA approved
an SDR 3.1 million allocation from the Special Africa Facility to support the first phase of the
Government's adjustment program, covering the period 1987-89.
3.58   As further support to the adjustment program, and to secure the supply response from
the cocoa sector, IDA approved an SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9 ri illion equivalent) Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project in 1987. Under this project, about 1,000 ha of cocoa have been
replanted, 1,500 ha have been rehabilitated, and assistance has been provided for
diversification out of cocoa. To complement the effect; of the adjustment program on
especially vulnerable groups, mainly of urban and rural poor and redundant civil servants,
IDA approved an SDR 3.9 million (US$5 million equivalent) Multi-Sector Project in June
1989 and a Sccond Multi-Sector Project of SDR 4.5 million in June 1991. These credits are
financing sub-projects in infrastructure, health and education and environmental protection, in
addition to private sector activities in the artisanal and agro-industry sectors. A follow-up
adjustment operation (SAC II) has become effective in September 1991.
L. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.59  IDA has been instrumental in designing and supporting the economic adjustment
program. IDA has also led the rehabilitation effort for the cocoa industry and collaborated
closely with the Government in preparing a strategy for the development of agriculture. This
sector strategy is expected to provide the basis for the transition from a centrally planned to a
market based agricultural sector. It will also provide the basis for the coordination of external
donor support to agriculture. IDA's continued and broadened assistance to agriculture will be
needed to support the continuation of sector policy adjustments; ensure the availability of
critically needed funding for the creation of a diversified, market-oriented and privately-
operated agricultural economy; and provide a framework for continued assistance of co-
financiers to this sector.
M. Lessons learned from Previous IDA Involvement.
3.60   Four important lessons can be derived from previous IDA involvement. They are
taken into account in the proposed project. First, the Structural Adjustment Program has had
a slow impact on agricultural production because potential farmers have had insufficient
access to land. The continued state control of land has therefore been a major impediment to
agricultural diversification and growth. The proposed project would address this problem
through land distribution to smallholders and medium-sized enterprises. Second, the technical
success of the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project has been due mainly to the use of private
management contracts. These management contracts, however, have still provided insufficient
incentives for cost-effective production. Therefore, the proposed project would induce the
private sector to convert the management contracts into lease contracts that would increase
management accountability. Third, the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project has not tackled the
problem of excess labor on the estates. Under the proposed project, the Government would
finance severance payments and the land distribution would provide alternative employment
for estate workers losing their public service employment. Fourth, lack of forthcoming
cofinancing during implementation has reduced the impact of the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project. The proposed credit would finance all the components vital to meet the project
objectives.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. PrQject Objectives and Scope
4.1    The proposed project aims primarily to increase and diversify agricultural production
through privatizing the publicly-owned agricultural estates and promoting smallholder
development. Privatization would increase production efficiency, eliminate the financial
losses of the agricultural estates and provide incentives for diversification into food and other
crops by the private sector and smallholders. Secondary objectives of the project are: rural
poverty alleviation, diversified and sustainable agricultural growth, and environmental
protection.
B. Summray Description
4.2    The Government wants to move from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented and
privately-operated agricultural sector. To meet this objective, the project would help the
Government to: (a) distribute and lease (on a usufruct basis) most publicly-owned agricultural
estates to smallholders, medium-sized farms and agro-processing enterprises; (b) reduce the
number of underemployed and unproductive estate laborers and increase labor productivity on
the remaining (private) estates; (c) lease the financially-viable estates and nucleus processing
facilities to the private sector; (d) complete the on-going investment in cocoa replanting and
its maintenance until the trees reach maturity; and (e) strengthen agricultural support services
and sectoral administration to promote agricultural diversification. The total project cost is
estimated at US$17.2 million, and IDA financing would amount to US$9.8 million. The
Government would seek additional parallel financing from other donors such as IFAD,
CCCE, FAC and GTZ for the research, extension and forestry components of the overall
agricultural sector program.
4.3    The proposed project components would be:
(a)    Land Distribution: technical assistance to distribute and lease (on usufruct
basis) about 20,000 ha of the public estates to smallholders and medium-sized
enterprises around private (or privately-managed) nucleus processing and
marketing units (US$1.9 million, or 11.3% of project costs). The
Government would divide the estates into smallholder plots and lease the plots
for renewable 20-year periods to farm families. The central processing units
(nuclei) of the estates would be sold or leased to the private sector.
(b)    Labor Reduction and Economic Support Measures: financial assistance to the
laborers leaving their permanent public service employment on the estates and
additional assistance in kind to those who settle on private smallholder plots
(US$7 million, or 40.7% of project costs). The entire estate labor force
would have to leave the public service. It is estimated that: about 10%
would retire; 20% would leave the sector voluntarily; 20% would remain as
laborers en the private estates; and 50% would settle on distributed land. The
Government would provide incentives for voluntary departure as well as the
redundancy payments. The World Food Program would provide food aid to



- 21 -
the new settlers during their first year of setilement. The IDA Credit funds
would not be used to pay redundancy payments.
(c)    Operational and Management Reform of the Cocoa Sector: (a) technical and
financial assistance to privatize the cocoa estates and to introduce private input
supply and produce marketing through the nuclei (US$2.7 million, or 15.7%
of project costs). During the transition toward full privatization, the project
would support the operations of a Nucleus Management and Marketing
Corporation (NMMC). NMMC would be a private company contracted by
the Government to manage the nuclei of the distributed estates until private
leaseholders or purchasers were found. It would sell inputs to smallholders,
purchase their crops and provide some essential social services. The credit
would finance part of the personnel cost of NMMC, procure transport
equipment and agricultural inputs, and provide marketing funds as well as
minor repairs of the processing units; (b) financial assistance to complete the
on-going investment in cocoa through maintaining 1,500 ha of cocoa--
replanted under the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project at Uba Budo and
Bela Vista estates--until the trees reach maturity in 1995 (US$2 million, or
11.8% of project costs). The production area of both estates would be
reduced and their management contracts would be converted into lease
contracts. The credit would finance the construction of one cocoa drying unit
on each estate, as well as the maintenance of Uba Budo's replanted cocoa
areas until the trees reached maturity.
(d)    Agricultural Sector Administration and SupRort Services: technical assistance
to strengthen the Directorate-General of Agriculture (DGA) and the Ministry
of Social Equipment and Environment in: agricultural planning, sector
administration, livestock extension, agricultural training, land use planning
and implementation, cadastral services, and monitoring of the social impact of
the project (US$2 million, or 11.8% of project costs).
4.4   The Cabinet for Coordination and Technical Assistance (GCAT) within DGA would
coordinate and implement the project. The project coordination unit of the on-going Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (UAP) would continue to provide services to GCAT in procurement,
disbursement and accounting.
C. Detailed Feature
1. Land Distribution
Land Tenure Legislation and Administrative Procedures
4.5    Until now, private investment in agriculture has been modest, because, since
Independence, the State has owned and managed almost all agricultural land. In recent years,
the Govermnent allocated some 10,000 ha of public land to individuals (see para 3.14-17)
who received the right to use the land for two to twenty years. This allocation was done
without much prior planning. Considerations of equity or the capacity of the beneficiaries to
put the land to productive use were not part of the allocation criteria. No agricultural support



- 22 -
services have been provided to the new landholders. Hence, little was invested in this land,
although smallholders have increased food production.
4.6    In June 1991, the National Assembly passed a comprehensive land law. Its objective
is to privatize land. The law covers the status of the land, the ways to obtain usufruct and/or
ownership rights, the methods to transfer these rights, etc. It mandates use of the land for
purposes compatible with its objectives. It creates incentives for the user/owner to cultivate
the land to its fullest economic potential and to increase its value. It also defines specific
zones for urban development, agriculture, tourism and forest reserves.
4.7    In September 1991, the Government established initial criteria and procedures to
distribute agricultural estate land to smallholders and medium-sized enterprises. The
Government will distribute the land to farming families on an usufruct (lease) basis. Usufruct
rights are granted for a period of 20 years. The obligations of the landholders are to cultivate
the land and to pay a yearly fee. The usufruct rights can be inherited. Female as well as
male heads of families will be able to obtain land rights that will be kept within the farming
families. The families will be allotted hectareage according to their family size and the
quality of the land. A DGA committee is developing an equitable land aliocation system.
The Government will issue supplemental procedures to allow the automatic renewal of the
usufruct contract for a second period of 20 years and the transfer of the usufruct rights after a
period of cultivation of five years. Only serious failure of the landholder to corrmply with the
contract obligations could result in contract termination by the Government. The Government
also intends to submit for approval to the National Assembly regulations that would allow the
sale of the land. In the meantime, all other forms of land distribution have been suspended.
Publication by the Government of detailed land distribution criteria and procedures, acceptable
to IDA, would be a condition for the effectiveness of the project.
Imnlementation
4.8     The Government will distribute about 20,000 ha of publicly-owned land to
smallholders and medium-sized local agricultural enterprises within the next five years. This
hectareage comprises about 12,000 ha (60% of the EEAs' non-rehabilitated areas) planted
with cocoa,21/ and about 8,000 ha planted with other perennial crops (coconut, oil palm
and coffee).22/ The 3,200 ha of recently-rehabilitated cocoa, with the associated existing
processing facilities, will be leased as nucleus estates to private operators. The cocoa areas
with very low yields (50 kg/ha or less) are mostly located in high altitude zones with steep
slopes; they will not be distributed, but retained for replanting with fast-growing forest trees.
There will be a ban on cutting cocoa-bearing and forest trees in such areas, except in the case
of replanting tree crops. Wherever possible, flat land will be made available to settlers to
grow food crops.
4.9     After distributing lease of all or part of the estate land, a nucleus will remain. The
nucleus can be defined as a central unit, mainly consisting of the processing, storage and
transport facilities. The nucleus will be sold or leased to the private sector (paras 4.374.40).
ai     For topogmphical re,aons, 25% of the cocoa estae land is considered unsuitable for replanting.
2J     As the exact hoetaage of the estates is riot known, the areas to be distributed as indicated in Annex 1,
Table 6 and Annex 11, Table 9 are estimates that can be adjused during implementation.



- 23 -
It will purchase, process and market the crops. It may also supply seedlings and chemical
inputs, eventually provide short-term credit to the smallholders, and assist with the
distribution of food aid to settlers during the first year after settling (para 4.24).
4.10   The prospective farmers will lease land in accordance with their family composition,
their technical capacities and their interests. The Government intends to give priority to laid-
off estate workers. At least 75% of the land will be distributed to laid-off estate laborers,
former public servants, young farmers who have completed agricultural training, and the
unemployed in plots of maximum 10 ha. Farmers or medium-sized enterprises with technical
and financial capabilities to manage larget areas may be able to obtain more land. Groups of
estate workers may lease an entire subdivision of an estate, which can be later distributed on a
family basis. The Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment (MSEE) will register the
usufruct rights and contracts.
4.11   The lease price per ha will be determined on the basis of a technical and economic
evaluation. It will generally amount to the equivalent of 15% of the value of the estimated
output. The present output is small and the lease payments of a particular plot will likely not
exceed 7% of the potential revenue. The Directorate of Finance of MEAF will collect the
lease payments in designated centers during the peak harvesting period. For this purpose,
MSEE will provide the Directorate of Finance with information on the registered
leaseholders.
4.12   GCAT within DGA will execute the land distribution program for each estate. GCAT
will collect data on the estate workers interested in farming and on other potential candidates
and their families. The sociologists employed by GCAT will analyze the family composition
of the candidates and their interest in farming. The topographical and technical teams will
identify, value and divide the land into agro-technically and economically viable plots
according to their tree crop stands, their geographic situations and their economic potential.
For reasons of financial viability, family composition and topography, the size of the plots
will differ.
4.13    An ad hoc Land Distribution Commission will oversee the land distribution and
ensure strict adherence to the distribution criteria and procedures. The Commission will be
composed of representatives of the Government and the economic and social sectors such as
the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions, political parties and other relevant organizations.
Its task will be to examine and to endorse the proposals for distribution made by GCAT. It
will also propose solutions to problems or conflicts which may arise during the
implementation of the land distribution program. The establishment of the Land Distribution
Commission will be a condition for effectiveness of the project.
4.14   GCAT would also undertake a review of all existing land use contracts of more than
10 ha. These land use contracts contain a revision clause that can be invoked in case of non-
cultivation of the land. A large part of the already distributed land is not cultivated, and the
most suitable areas could be reallocated to more interested candidates. The Government
would exercise any related termination rights and distribute the released land. The review and
redistribution would be finalized by December 31, 1994.
4.15   The project would strengthen GCAT with technical assistance, equipment and
additional logistics, including: (a) one expatriate land distribution specialist who would assist



- 24 -
implementing the land distribution program and co-ordinate and supervise the other
components of the project; (b) one expatriate chief topographer who would lead the
topographical works, train the local topographers in land distribution, and train the MSEE
staff in the organization of cadastral services; (c) local consultants in topography, sociology,
agriculture and contractual matters; and (d) logistics, equipment and the training necessary to
carry out the land distribution. The land distribution specialist and a chief topographer would
be recruited before September 1, 1992. The UAP (Project Management Unit, created under
the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project) would support GCAT with the processing of project related
procurement, disbursement and accounting.
4.16   The project would also strengthen the MSEE in charge of t;-e official registration of
land rights and the cadastre, with registration equipment and supplies. Co-operation between
GCAT and the MSEE has been agreed upon during appraisal.
4.17   The IDA credit would finance the costs related to: (a) the identification, survey and
evaluation studies of the land to be distributed, including land measurements, appraisal of the
production potential of the plot, mapping, etc.; (b) the analysis of the family situation and
other social parameters of the candidates; (c) the plotting, land distribution, and operation of
GCAT, including technical assistance, local consultants, transport, equipment, and materials;
and (d) the office equipment and supplies to establish and update the cadastre. The cost of the
land distribution component is estimated at US$1.94 million.
2. Labor Reduction and Social and Economic Suooort Measures
4.18   Land reform and the privatization of estates and nuclei will entail very substantial
reduction of employment in the public estate sub-sector. The reforms will also require social
and economic policy measures to ease the transition to private sector employment. Over the
project period, most of the estate workers would lose their permanent employment and many
would become independent farmers. The latter would receive food aid to survive during the
first year after settlement (para 4.24). They would receive severance payments, which they
can use to develop their plots (para 4.20). At the same time, they would need agricultural
inputs, training and agricultural extension services (paras 4.37-42 and 4.47-54). To stimulate
food crop production, food subsidies would be gradually reduced and eliminated by the end of
the project period (para 4.27). The social service functions currently fulfilled by the estates,
such as the provision of education and health services, would be transferred to the respective
Ministries or to the private sector (para 4.26). The laborers who obtain employment on the
privatized estates would work under private sector employment conditions (paras 4.28-30).
Any of the redundant and retrenched laborers could also be temporarily employed during the
harvesting seasons on the privatized estates.
Labor reduction
4.19 Voluntary Departures. The Government would, by September 30, 1992, offer the
personnel of the estates a financial package for voluntary departure acceptable to IDA.
Workers and other staff voluntarily leaving their permanent employment on the estates would
receive a cash grant equivalent to 150% of the legal severance payment. The Government
intends to finance the voluntary departure grants for an estimated 1,500 estate staff with funds
already available for this purpose under the Social Dimensions of Adjustmnent (SDA) Project,



- 25 -
financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). At an average of US$800 per person,
the grants would amount to an estimated total of US$1.25 million.
4.20   Severance Payments. The severance pay for the estimated 4,200 laborers who are
expected to settle on private plots uiader the land distribution scheme would be financed by the
Government. It intends to apply the same rules for financial compensation of laid-off estate
staff as it does for public servants laid off under the Structural Adjustment Program. The
estate personnel would receive: 100% of their last month salary during the first four months,
75% during the four following months and 50% during the last four months. The
Government would include the severance payments into its annual budget. The total cost of
the severance payments is estimated at US$3.4 million.23/
4.21   Retirements. All estate workers who have reached legal retirement age would be
retired. The Government would provide retirement benefits in accordance with the social
security legislation. The number of workers above the retirement age-limit is estimated at
about 1,000.
4.22   The reduction of the estate workforce from an estimated 8,850 to 7,750 workers,
mainly through retirement, is a condition of effectiveness of the project. The workforce
would be reduced to 6,500 before the end of 1993 through voluntary departures, further
retirement and lay-offs combined with land distribution. During implementation, the
Government and IDA would agree upon a reduction schedule depending on progress with the
land distribution and the voluntary departure programs.
4.23 Re-employment. About 2,100 public estate workers are likely to find employment on
the privatized estates. The Government would examine measures and methods to smooth the
transfer from public employees to private sector employees with private sector and labor
representatives. The rights of the work .Irs would be protected, and they would receive the
amount of severance pay provided within the law upon their official dismissal from the public
service.
Food Aid
4.24 Settlers would benefit from assistance from the World Food Program (WFP) during
the first year following settlement. Each settler would receive the equivalent of 120 rations
per month for a period of 12 months after settlement. This should allow settlers to feed their
families, as well as hired workers, while developing their plots and constructing new housing
during the settling-in period. Nuclei and private estates would distribute food aid to settlers.
The total cost of food aid for 4,500 settlers during the project period would amount to
US$2.2 million. Before December 31, 1992, the Government would request WFP to allocate
part of the already available food aid for this purpose. The Government has an informal
commitment that, for the following years, WFP will provide the food aid to settlers. Before
June 1, 1993, the Government will have obtained the effectiveness of the WFP Grant
?JI    This is not an additional cost for the national budget, s many of these labormrs have vesy low productivity
and had to be paid by the Govemment directly in the form of subsidies or indirectly through additional
credit by BNSIP to the EEAs.



- 26 -
Agreement or have obtaitied funds from other sources to cover the food aid to the settlers
during the first year after settlement.
Housing. Social Services and Food Subsidies
4.25   At present, the estates provide housing to their workers as well as other important
social services in education and health. As part of the land distribution scheme, the
Government intends to donate the living quarters on the estates to their occupants. To the
settlers, who voluntarily (and to obtain more land) would move to other estates, the
Government intends to provide basic materials such as metal roof sheets to construct simple
shelters. It is estimated that only 10% of the settlers would relocate and an amount of
US$190,000 has been reserved within the project for their relocation expenses.
4.26   The nuclei would continue to provide social services until this responsibility could be
transferred to the respective sectoral Ministries or to private providers; this transfer is
scheduled for the period 1993-96. In the meantime, the services would be financed with the
counterpart funds generated from the sale of WFP food aid, and the nuclei would retain a
larger share of these counterpart funds to finance these services.24/
4.27   With the aim of reducing labor absenteeism, a substantial amount of subsidized food
is currently supplied to estate workers (para 3.32). To stimulate domestic food production,
the Government will yearly reduce these food subsidies until they are fully eliminated by
1997. From July 1, 1992 onwards the workers would pay 40% of the WFP food market
value; from July 1, 1993, 50%; from July 1, 1994, 60%; from July 1, 1995, 80%; and from
July 1, 1996, the full market value. Reduction of food subsidies would be selective.
Subsidies of foodstuffs which can be produced locally would be lowered more rapidly.
Labor Relations
4.28   One of the main constraints on increasing the profitability of the cocoa estates and
medium-sized plantations is die implementation of the labor laws (para 3.1 1). The labor
legislation and its interpretation are characterized by uncertainty regarding the respective
rights and obligations of employees and employers. They are based on labor relations in
centrally planned socialist countries and are not adapted to the requirements of a market
economy. There is no independent tribunal to settle labor disputes, and estate management
has to negotiate sanctions against workers with a workers' tribunal. At present, it is difficult
or almost impossible for the management of public estates to adapt the workforce to the
workload. Labor absenteeism is between 15 and 20%. On average, the laborers do not work
more than 2-3 hours per day. Some of the estates could manage wish only 50% of their
a/      Rcweipts from the sale of WFP food aid will be utilized as follows: (i) 15% to WFP to finance the
educational program; (ii) 15% for the distribution cosut; and (iii) 70% to the estates or nuclei to maintain
the social services they provide. Depending on progrnss with the land distribution scheme, the value of the
food aid is estimated to amount to US$5.3 million over five yeass (equivalent to an estimated 20,000
laborcr-years over a five year period at 840 rations per year and at 0.46 kg per ration valued at US$0.69
per kg). Of the US$2.6 million in sales proceeds, almost US$1.8 million will be spent on the social
programs of the nuclei, US$0.39 million on the school investment program and US$0.39 million to cover
distribution cost. Agreement concerning this distribution has been reached with WFP during appraisal.



- 27 -
present permanent work force. As most labor is permanent, the estates can not attract much
additional labor during peak harvesting periods. The system lacks flexibility.
4.29   Many of these problems are caused by current Government control over the estates.
Privatization will change many aspects of the problem. However, privatization is impossible
unless the private operator can select workers on private sector conditiorns and maintain labor
relations based on the balanced rights and obligations of both parties. It would also be
desirable that estate management and labor representatives enter into formal collective
agreements.
4.30   In November 1991 the National Assembly discussed a new law regulating labor
relations in the private sector. This law clarifies the respective rights of employees and
employers and provides mechanisms to protect the rights of both. The law is, however,
unclear about the criteria the Government will use to evaluate employers' requests for lay-offs
for economic reasons. The Governrment will clarify this point in application decrees before
December 31, 1992.
Monitoring of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
4.31   Given the social impact of the on-going economic reform efforts and the agricultural
sector's predominant role in the economy, the project would finance specific activities related
to the Government's capacity to monitor the changing socio-economic conditions of former
estate workers and other vulnerable groups. It would also give modest support for improved
policy analyses and formulations for social adjustment within the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance (MEAF).251
4.32   The project would provide technical support and financing to undertake a special
survey, using prototype methodology developed for the World Bank's Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) initiative. This survey would be implemented by the Directorate of
Statistics and Economics (DSE) within MEAF, and would provide data on socio-economic
conditions, as well as income and expenditure data for a representative sample of the
population. The results would be used in the analysis and formulation of macro and sector
policies in order to ensure that vulnerable groups are protected during the current period of
significant economic change. The cost of monitoring the social dimensions of adjustment
within the project is estimated at US$100,000.
3. Operational and Management Reform of the Cocoa Sector
4.33    The reform of the management system of the cocoa estates will shift responsibility
for production and marketing to the private sector. The Government will seek to review the
existing lease contracts on the basis of feasibility studies; the aim will be to reduce the leased
area, improve the protection of the assets of the estates and ensure that their production is
collected and exported (paras 4.34-35). The Government will put forth its best efforts to
V/     Concurrently, in conjunction with the AfDB's support to the project's re-deployment of estate workers, the
AfDB is also making resoures available under a Compensation and Re-Tr ining Program providing support
to the Governnent to reduce the size of the civil service.



- 28 -
convert the existing management contracts for the rehabilitated estates, such as Uba Budo and
Bela Vista, into lease contracts with the private operators already managing these units
(para 4.36). Where immediate interest from the private sector is apparent, the central
processing units (nuclei) of the estates distributed to smallholders will be sold or leased to the
private sector. Where no immediate interest from the private sector is apparent, the nuclei
will be rehabilitated and operated by the Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation
(paras 4.37-42) until the facilities can be sold or leased. Moreover, the Government will
cease to administer cocoa producer prices, realign export taxes and launch a cocoa quality
improvement scheme (paras 4.43-46).
Lease C-ontracts
4.34   The Government intends to review the existing estate lease contracts (Diogo Vaz and
Agostinho Neto) in order to release land for distribution to smallholders and create incentives
for the leaseholders to increase production, develop the land and maintain the processing
facilities--thereby minimizing the risk of degradation of the assets. The Government intends
to insist that each new leaseholder implements the agreed operations and development plan,
makes financing available to implement the plan, and provides a bank guarantee for the fixed
and mobile assets received. These terms would also be used when the nuclei were leased to
the private sector. The Government would negotiate the level of lease payments in
accordance with the physical condition of the estate and its production potential. The lease
price would be composed of a fixed and a variable amount per ha. The variable amount
would fluctuate in accordance with the FOB-price of cocoa or other main crop.
4.35   The project would finance the services of consultants to assist the Government with
the review of lease contracts, evaluation of buildings and equipment, determination of lease
payments, etc. The Government will, in all future nuclei leases, adopt standard lease contract
terms which require the leaseholder to: (a) provide an operations and development plan, fully
financed with confirmed sources of finance; (b) supply a bank guarantee in relation with the
value of the fixed and mobile assets; and (c) pay a lease price in line with the physical
condition and the production potential of the estate.
Conversion of Ma.ageement Contracts into Lease Contracts and Further Rehabilitation of
Estates
4.36   In order to inc:ease the efficiency of the estates under management contract and to
increase the financial accountability of the management firms, the Government will negotiate
with such firms the conversion of the existing management contracts into lease contracts. The
management contracts of Uba Budo and Bela Vista were signed in 1987 for an initial period
of nine years. The investments in the estates are not yet completed. The project would
provide an amount of US$900,000 to purchase two cocoa driers (for the Bela Vista and Uba
Budo estates) and US$1.2 million to purchase additional equipment and inputs, as well as to
finance works on the recently replanted tree stands of Uba Budo until they reach maturity in
1995. The project would also provide consultants to the Government to assist with the
negotiations of the conversion of the management contracts into lease contracts. The
conversion of the management contracts into lease contracts, adhering to the principles
mentioned under para 4.35 above and acceptable to IDA, will be conditions for disbursement
of expenditure related to the estates concerned.



- 29 -
The Nucleus Maragement and Marketing Corporation (NMMC)
4.37   The processing nuclei on the leased estates have been taken over by private sector
operators. There have also been indications of interest in leasing other nuclei from private
investors. However, privatizing those nuclei may take some time and contains an element of
risk. Therefore, the Government will make a contract with a private firm (Nucleus
Management and Marketing Corporation) to manage all nuclei until privatization and to
supply essential inputs and market services to the farmers. The Government will invite
proposals from agricultural management firms, including firms already present in Sao Tome,
to undertake this task on a contractual basis.
4.38   During the privatization period, NMMC would be required to: (a) maintain and
operate the not-yet-privatized nuclei; (b) purchase, process and market produce from private
planters around the nuclei; (c) import and supply agricultural inputs (chemicals, fertilizers,
seeds, planting materials and tools) to be soid--on a cash or credit basis--to smallholders; and
(d) carry out non-commercial tasks such as distributing food aid to settlers, paying health and
education services for smallholders with counterpart funds generated through the sale of food
aid, and training settlers in cocoa husbandry.
4.39  In order to ensure fair competition within the private sector and to avoid the
Government having to cover the operating expenses of NMMC, the latter would be
responsible for the financial equilibrium of the com-mercial operations of the nuclei (including
fixed costs). NMMC would receive a significant percentage of the positive cash flow of its
operations and be responsible to the same extent for its losses. The non-commercial activities
would be undertaken for a fee under a separate agreement. Payment of the salaries of
workers employed by the Government on the non-distributed estates would remain the
responsibility of the Government.
4.40   If estate or nuclei lease-holders did not comply with the terms of their lease contracts,
NMMC would be invited under a separate agreement to maintain the replanted or rehabilitated
cocoa areas awaiting further privatization or distribution.
4.41   The task of NMMC (to provide an intermediate solution and a fallback position for
the Government if privatization of the nuclei is slower than foreseen), would continue until a
suitable arrangement was found for the management of the nuclei by the private sector, under
leasing contracts or by sale or through their distribution to smallholders. As NMMC would
incur considerable risks, it may prove difficult to attract private management firms without
assuring guaranteeing for their fixed staff costs. Although the commercial operations are
expected to be profitable, the operation of nucleus processing plants which have been idle or
working at low capacity in recent years will require some repairs and the procurement of
transport equipment. Moreover, NMMC would, initially, have very few chances to obtain
foreign exchange to import agricultural inputs. The project would, therefore, provide funds
to finance: (a) personnel costs and vehicles (maximum US$620,000 over a period of three
years); (b) initial repairs of the processing equipment and the procurement of critically needed
transport equipment (US$700,000); and (c) the import of agricultural inputs and smallholder
farm implements (US$630,000). Inputs would be sold to farmers on a cash or short-term
credit basis; it would be NMMC's responsibility to recover the credit. The project
management would introduce a system to monitor and control overall credit ceilings and
recovery. This monitoring would be the task of UAP through bi-weekly inspections.



- 30 -
4.42  The only bank in the country, BNSTP, is no longer in a position to provide short-term
working capital to NMMC. The main use of the working capital would be the purchase of
cocoa from farmers. To avoid liquidity problems during the harvesting season, the
Government would make available to NMMC initial funds to purchase cocoa (US$480,000),
financed by the proceeds of the credit. The need for working capital would increase over
time, and additional financing would first be sought from the banking system. Should
NMMC be unable to obtain incremental working capital from the banking system, the
Government would provide the funds from its own resources. The project (UAP) would
establish mechanisms to control (through bi-weekly inspections) the use of Govermnent funds
by NMMC. The operational procedures for the management of this working capital and its
utilization would be specified in detail in the contractual arrangement between the Government
and NMMC. The recruitment of NMMC would be a condition of disbursement of investment
expenditures related to NMMC.
Producer Prices. Export Taxes and Cocoa Quality
4.43   The transition from an economy run mainly by large Government-controlled estates to
an economy of smallholders and medium-sized plantations will have to be accompanied by
measures to protect producers, traders and the Government. Six privately-managed nuclei
(Diogo Vaz, Agostinho Neto, Santa Margarida, Bela Vista, Uba Budo and Monte Cafe) and
three small traders are buying cocoa from the public. This guarantees some competition.
The creation of the NMMC would increase the number of buyers and buying points. In very
isolated areas the nuclei may be the only buyers, and smallholders may face de facto local
monopsonies. As communications and roads improve, a commercial system of small traders
would develop, and the monopsonies would disappear.
4.44   Pricing System. The Government would not administer or control the producer prices
of agricultural products. Instead, it would promote competition amongst buyers through
improvement of the transport system, support to farmers' marketing groups, and publication
of a monthly reference price of cocoa for producers in order to reduce market distortions.
The producer reference price would be a function of the FOB price of the previous month and
would serve as a guide. A committee composed of producers, ex'3orters and the Government
would, for the purpose of determining the reference price, examine the relationship between
the FOB price and the producer price. Assurances have been obtained that the Government
will not administer producer prices during the project period.
4.45 Export Taxes. Export taxes on cocoa would be reduced to a low ad valorem rate of
not more than 10% of the FOB price. This would be achieved by 1 January, 1993, unless
such a rate adversely and affected the Government's obligations under its adjustment program
materially. Windfall revenues, which may arise from significant increases in the cocoa price,
would be taxed through the income tax system. However, if cocoa prices should fail to
recover from the present low level, it might be necessary to eliminate the export taxes
entirely. This aspect would be taken into account during the first year of implementation and
the mid-term review of the project.
4.46   Cocoa Quality. No formal cocoa quality inspection exists at present and the benefits
of the introduction of such a system would not be apparent until production increases to a
significant level. Hence, the project would assist the Government with the introduction of a
coooa quality improvement scheme. STP cocoa has now a discount of US$80 per ton,



- 31 -
compared to the FFQ of Ghana.26,/ Widh the technical assistance of ARC-Poto, the quality
and grading of STP cocoa would be improved. ARC-Poto would introduce quality standards
and organize, in cooperation with the Bela Vista Agricultural Professional Training Center,
training in curing and drying. Over time, the implementation of these standards would allow
STP to develop its own label. In order to achieve this, co. oa curing techniques and drying
equipment would, as far as possible, he standardized.
4. Agrncultural Institutions and Support Services
4.47   Sectoral Administration and Planning. The project would strengthen the Department
of Studies and Planning (DSP) of the DGA through training, technical assistance and logistical
support. A short-term consultant (agricultural economist-planner) would train and assist the
DSP staff to improve its capabilities in the critical areas of agricultural policy and strategy
formulation, sectoral planning and monitoring, agricultural project and public investment
analysis, and donor coordination. The project would also finance short-term training for the
staff, basic information-processing, transport and office equipment. The total cost of this
institutional support is estimated at US$310,000.
4.48   Agricultyral Training. The project would support the training activities of the
CATAP and Bela Vista agricultural training centers. It would finance, on a sub-contractual
basis, 50 training courses (ranging from one week to three months) for a total of 600 trainees
in agricultural management, cocoa curing, and agricultural and livestock production. Twenty-
five percent of the training costs would be contributed by the trainees, the private sector or
other non-governmental organizations. The costs of this component are estimated at
US$480,000.
4.49   Animal Production. The project would include a small component to introduce
suitable livestock husbandry practices and integrate livestock into farmers' production
systems. The project would, specifically, finance the costs of importing 125 head of N'Dama
cattle from nearby Came'roon to constitute the initial breeding stock. The animals would be
lent to selected farmers, who would reimburse DGA with young, healthy and productive
offspring. The project would also contribute to the purchase of fencing materials, veterinary
equipment and materials, and transport equipment for the livestock services. The total cost of
this component is estimated at US$310,000.
4.50   Agricultural Research. In order to implement the full agricultural reform program,
the Agricultural Research Center of Poto needs strengthening to enable it to improve cocoa
quality and to support crop diversification, including food crops. It would produce hybrid
cocoa seedlings, carry out applied research on disease control and determine site-specific
nutrient deficiencies. It would %stablish cocoa quality standards, and develop a training
program to improve cocoa pro(essing. It would introduce applied research on food crops
(vegetables, pulses, root crops and cereals), fruits (pineapple, tree fruits), spices and forest
trees. To realize this program, the Government would seek financing from the French
CCCE. The following components need to be financed during the project period:
(a) technical assistance and consultants; (b) training abroad in cocoa processing; (c) transport
equipment; (d) construction of a storage building; (e) laboratory equipment and materials; and
2A/    For more details see Annex IX.



- 32 -
(t) nursery materials. The research station would be closely linked to the Mesquita FL1d
Crop Development Center and the FAC/IFAD-financed food crop development project. The
total cost of the research component during the project period is estimated at US$1 million.
4.51   Agricultural Extension. The Mesquita Food Crop Development Center would develop
into a national extension service. Mesquita has enough staff to fulfill this function. Its
extension workers would receive additional training in cocoa extension from NMMC, and in
animal production from the livestock department and from CATAP/Bela Vista agricultural
training centers. The integration of extension activities depends on development of the
management capacity of Mesquita Center. The technical assistance provided to Mesquita by
other donors is sufficient and does not have to be strengthened by this project. Moreover,
other donors, such as FAC and IFAD, would cover extension needs during the project period
through parallel financing agreements.
4.52   Land Use Planning. The project would provide technical and financial support to the
Government to redesign the land use plan identifying forestry and nature reserves, land
available for agriculture, tourism, and other purposes such as urban development, industry,
and wildlife habitat. This land use plan would take into account the long-term strategy of the
Government to diversify agriculture, to protect the environment and to develop tourism and
other foreign exchange generating activities. The implementation of the plan would imply a
ban on chopping down cocoa-bearing, forest and other trees on steep slopes, except to replant
trees. The land use plan would be drawn up by the Ministry of Social Equipment and
Environment (MSEE) in close liaison with DGA. It would be an updated and more detailed
version of the 1976 land use plan. The plan would have to be adopted by the Council of
Ministers and by the National Assembly. The project would assist the MSEE with the design
of the plan and the drafting of implementation decrees through the financing of consulting
services (US$170,000).
4.53   Forest Manaeement. The land use plan would include the creation of primary
forestry reserves. The Govermnent would introduce forest management legislation and
implement a forestry code. The code would: (a) foster management of secondary forest by
farmers on a sustainable yield basis and the conservation of remaining primary forests as
natural reserves, and (b) induce planting by the private sector of fast growing species of
fuelwood. This would be achieved by preventing farmer encroachment on the remaining
primary forests, which would be declared "protected". FP.r all secondary forest products,
including cocoa trees, the policy would require harvesting consistent with biological
regeneration.
4.54   The land reform and privatization program would modify the management of the
forest resources, particularly of the secondary forest. In order to ensure application of forest
legislation, the forestry service of the DGA would be strengthened. The service would also
issue forest exploitation permits and collect statistical information and stumpage fees.
Progressively, it would establish field operational units to manage forest reserves and control
forest exploitation in general. ARC-Poto would create tree nurseries and the Mesquita Center
would assist organizing extension in forest conservation and development. The total cost of
the forestry component of the project is estimated at US$1.2 million. The Government will
obtain financing from the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) for: (a) a
technical assistant (24 person-months) to organize the forestry service and draft the forestry
code; (b) training of DGA staff and forest guards; and (c) the infrastructure, equipment and



- 33 -
some operational expenses of the forest service. The GTZ financing would be under a
bilateral agreement. The EEC would finance, within the framework of a regional project, the
establishment of field offices, nurseries, and training for field staff. The project is financing
(with PPF funds) the training in Portugal of four local specialists in forest management.
D. Technical Assistance. Training. Studies and Project Coordination
4.55   Technical Assistance.27/ The project would provide technical assistance to the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (DGA) to support the various project components:
(a)    GCAT would be strengthened by a land distribution specialist and project
manager (36 months) and by a chief topographer (24 months) who would train
nationals in land evaluation and land distribution methods. A considerable
number of local technicians (781 months) would render technical services to
GCAT;
(b)    The Pioject Management Unit (UAP) would benefit, during the whole project
period, from technical assistance by a high-level accounting and procurement
specialist;
(c)    DSP would benefit from the assistance of a short-term agricultural economist
(6 months) to improve its output and performance;
(d)    Management services to the export crop sector would be provided through
NMMC; the project would contribute financing for about 70 months of
expatriate technicians within NMMC; and
(e)   lTechnical assistance would be provided to the Poto Research Center and to the
Forest Service under parallel financing agreements with other donors.
In total, the expatriate technical assistance would amount to 136 months. The total cost of
technical assistance (including work by local consultants) under the project is estimated at
US$2.4 m;llion and would be financed almost entirely by the IDA Credit.
4.56   Training. Training would be provided at three levels: (a) the technical assistants
would provide formal training as well as on-the-job training to their national counterparts
during at least 10% of their time; (b) the project would finance 50 person-months of short
training courses abroad for Government staff; and (c) the CATAP and Bela Vista agricultural
training centers would train managers of medium-sized plantations and farmers. A training
plan is presented in Annex VIII. The total training cost to be financed by the Project is
estimated at US$580,000.
4.57   Studies. Apart from the studies carried out under the PPF, an amount of US$392,000
would be provided to finance the redesign of the land use plan, a survey for measuring the
social impact of the project (SDA), and financial audits. The project would also provide for
14 months of consulting services to assist the Government with the sale and the leasing of
estates and nuclei (US$220,000).
fli The terms of reference of the technical assistance are decnribed in Anrex VllI.



- 34 -
4.58   Project Coordination. DGA would implement the project. GCAT would be
responsible for the management of the land distribution scheme and for the day-to-day project
management. GCAT would use the services of the already existing Project Management Unit
(UAP) for procurement and disbursement as well as for supervision and management of all
matters related to NMMC and to the Uba Budo and Bela Vista estates. GCAT would have a
national director, an expatriate project manager and several highly qualified local staff. UAP,
having successfully managed the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, would be
strengthened with an accountant/procurement manager. NMM.C would operate according to
its management contract, supervised by UAP. Monitoring of the social dimensions of the
adjustment process would be coordinated by an SDA coordinator appointed by MEAF.
E. Project Costs and Financing
4.59   Cost Estimat. The estimated total cost of the proposed project (including taxes)
during the five-year period, including physical and price contingencies, is US$17.2 million.
Inflation assumed from 1992 onwards is as follows:
Foreign%    Local%
1992           1.1           25
1993          -0.4           20
1994           1.6           is
1995           3.8           1S
1996           4.0           15
Physical contingencies have been applied for all categories of expenditure, excluding technical
assistance. Contingencies, both financial and physical, amount to US$1.6 million or 11  %. In
determining project financial costs, a nominal exchange rate of Db260 per US dollar has been
used, with gradual depreciation to Db512 by 1996. Detailed cost estimates for the project are
shown in Annex III.
Table 4.1  PROJECT COST SUMLIARY
lUS$'OOO1
1. Investment Costa                                             Total
% Foreign   Base
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL   Exchanae   Costs
A. Equipment                257    2,010    2,267          89      15
B. Vehicle                   22       198      220         90       1
C. Civil Works               8S       355     440          81      3
D. Technical Assistance     613     1,653    2,266         73      14
E. Training and Studies     153       680      833         82       5
F. Redundancy compensation    4,322  1,715    6,037        28     39
0. Production Investment    791       864    1,655         52      11
H. ProJect Preparation Facility  200  1,300    1,500       87      10
Total Invetment Cost    68443      8.775  1S 218         58      98
2. Incremental Recurrent    237       134      371         36      2
Cast
Total Baseline Costs     6,680     8,909   15,589        57    100
Physical Contingonche     411       580      991         58       7
Price Contingencies        511      158     669\         24       4
lTotal Project Costs     7,602     ,0§47   17 249        5E    111



- 35 -
4.60   Amount and Terms. The proposed credit of US$9.8 million equivalent would be on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity and 10 years of grace. The closing date for the
Credit would be on June 30. 1998.
4.61   Financing Plan. The total estimated project cost of US$17.2 million would be
financed through a US$9.8 million IDA credit (or 57% of the total project cost) to the
Government. The Government would contribute US$5 million equivalent, including the
AfDB funds for the volun.ary departures, (about 28% of the project costs). The WFP would
provide US$2.2 million (13% of project costs). This contribution would be in the form of
food aid. The private sector would contribute US$270,000 (2% of project costs). The
Government would use the funds of the Credit primi-ily to finance the land distribution
operations of GCAT, parts of the management service's of NMMC, institutional strengthening
of the DGA and the MSEE, incremental agricultural inputs, and investments in cocoa
processing and cocoa replanting. Disbursement of these funds would be made through GCAT
and UAP. Thie financing plan, by project component, is as follows:
Table 4.2 RNANCWNG PLAN
IEuS$.oo0
Private
IDA    Govt   WFP  Sector   Total   Total
Land distribution component  1,710    231      -       -   1,941   11.3
Social component             188   4.668  2,172            7,028   40.7
Smaliholder and cocoa
production support component  4,550   34       -    156   4,740   27.5
Institutional support component    1,881  43         116   2.040   11.8
Project Preparation Facility  1,500                        1,500    8.7
Total                      9,829   4,976  2,172    272  17 249  100.0
Percentage                  57%     28%    13%      2%    100%
F. Procurement
4.62   Procurement under the project would consist of: (a) equipment (topography
equipment, cocoa processing and drying units for Uba Budo and Bela Vista, tractors, trailers
and trucks for the nuclei, spare parts for vehicles and nuclei, agricultural tools, office
furniture and equipment); (b) vehicles for DGA and NMMC; (c) civil works (rehabilitation of
driers and roads); (d) technical assistance for project management (GCAT, UAP and
NMMC); (e) consulting services for studies, technical support and training; (f) agricultural
inputs (seeds, chemicals and tools); and (vi) other supplies, transport, etc. Goods, services
and works for the project would be procured through UAP. UAP has been established under
the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. Its staff is fully familiar with IDA procurement
procedures, but would nevertheless be strengthened by an accountant/procurement officer
hired especially to supervise the financial relations with NMMC and Uba Budo and Bela Vista
esta.es. DGA would recruit an accountant/procurement officer before September 1, 1992.
Procurement arrangements proposed for the project are summarized in Table 4.3 below.
4.63    Works. Works would be procured through local shopping, on the basis of price
quotations by at least three local enterprises and in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.



- 36 -
Table 4.3 AMOUNT AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(USS million) 1/
Cdeory                        ICB    I&B    QhM         Not Bank   ToWadoss
Bildings Repuirs               -       -      0.5                       0.5
(0.5)                    (0.5)
2. Good,
Equipment and spare pas      0.8     0.5       1.1           -          2.4
(0.8)   (0.5)    (1.1)                     (2.4)
Vehicles                       -     0.2        -            -          0.2
(0.2)                             (0.2)
Agrkult inputs               0.7       -      0.4            -          1.1
(0.7)            (0.4)                     (1.1)
Other goods and services       -              0.2            -          0.2
(0.2)                    (0.2)
3. Tehnkial Assistance,                         3.4            -          3.4
Training and Studies                         (3.2)                     (3.2)
4. Redimdanc Comensation                          -          6.7          6.7
(0.0)       (0.0)
S. Kneaneous
Refimancing PPF                        -      1.5            -          1S
(1.5)                    (1.5)
Incremental Recurrt            -       -      0.8          0.4          1.2
costs/cocoa pubases NMMC                     (0.8)        (0.0)        (0.8)
AA     IL        Z.9          7.1         17.2
inu                        (1.5)   (0.7)    (7.6)        (0.0)        (9.8)
1t  Inludes phydcal and price contigencies. Figures in parentheses are the respective
amounb to be financed by IDA.
4.64    Goods and services (excluding consulting services) estimated to cost the equivalent or
less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$1.7 million, would be procured through international shopping on the basis of price
quotations by at least three international and/or local suppliers from at least two countries
eligible under IDA Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association. As there are only a handful of local suppliers in STP, and the islands are
geographically isolated, procurement for specialized equipment (such as topography and office
equipment, specific spare parts and office supplies), not to exceed US$10,000 per contract up
to an aggregate amount of US$250,000, may be done on direct purchase basis. Goods
involving estimated contract sums of less than US$200,000 (up to an aggregate limit of
$700,000) would be procured by LCB. They would include vehicles (to be delivered over the
project period), chemicals and cocoa drying equipment. Moreover, specific invitations would
also be sent to a list of suppliers broad enough to ensure participation of suppliers in the LCB
and comptrtive prices. Prior approval from IDA of the letter of invitation and the evaluation



- 37 -
criteria would be sought for procurement involving estimated contract sums of more than
US$100,000. Procurement of goods in excess of US$200,000 would follow International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) rules (except for the cocoa processing unit to be procured through
direct contracting with specialized firms to ensure standardization) and all related
documentation would be subject to IDA approval prior to bid solicitation. The ICB method of
procurement would cover agricultural inputs, equipment, tools, farm implements and spare
parts.
4.65   Procurement for consulting services would follow the Bank guidelines for
procurement of consultants. NMMC would be recruited from a shortlist of agricultural
management firms. Individual consultants for the long-term technical assistance posts would
be recruited directly by the Government after approval by IDA. For all contracts involving
consulting firms, a shortlist of at least five and not more than seven consulting firms would be
invited to submit proposals. Auditing would be contracted to one specific firm (after tender)
for the whole project period. Specific expertise would be recruited on a case by case basis.
4.66   Commitment and Disbursement. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over
an estimated seven years. The disbursement profile is based on the standard disbursement
profile in selected African Portuguese-speaking countries. The closing date for
disbursements would be June 30, 1998. The project would cover all foreign exchange costs
for the procurement of works, goods, materials, supplies and services, plus the local costs
(excluding duties and taxes) involved in construction and in the transport of goods to their
final destination. With regard to the technical assistance and studies categories of project
costs, IDA would disburse 100% of total expenditures. Expenditures for local training as
well as agricultural inputs and farm implements bought locally would be supported at 75% by
IDA. Local incremental recurrent costs for GCAT and UAP would include incremental office
expenditures and survey operating expenses. They would be disbursed at 75%. Local payroll
expenditures would be borne by the Government or the private sector, except for GCAT's.
GCAT would have to recruit additional staff with fixed term contracts at 100% of total
expenditures. Labor costs for works to rehabilitate the immature plants at Uba Budo can be
compared to labor costs in construction works and would be financed at 50%. Initial cocoa
purchases by NMMC would be supported at 50%. The balance in both categories would be
financed by the private sector. No disbursements would be made against land costs or taxes
and duties levied in STP.



- 38 -
4.67   The total amount of IDA financing is expected to be committed in five years. The
disbursement per category for this project is:
Table 4.4 DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
(US$'0001
Amount to be    % to b     % to be
financed by    financed    Financed
IDA Credit
Catepories                                                  Foreian       Local
Currency    Currency
1. A. Equipment/Veh/Parta                          646       100%       100%
B. Equipnwent/Veh/Parts for NMMC                 712       100%       100%
C. EquipmentiVeh/Parts for Uba Budo              670       100%       100%
D. Equipment for Bela Vista                      409       l00%       100%
2.  Civil Works                                    446       100%        100%
3.  Technical A"istance                          2,159       100%        100%
4.  Training and Studies                           773       100%        75%
S.  Agricultural Inputs                            970       100%        75%
6.  Incremental Operating Costs                    139       100%        75%
7.  Uba Budo Rehabilitation                        150                   50%
8.  Cocoa Purchases NMMC                           419          -        S0%
9.  Refinancing PPF                              1.500       100%        100%
10.  Unallocated                                   836
Total                                         9,829
The flow of funds and the amounts of disbursements by semester over a period of seven years
are shown in Annex III, Table 10.
4.68   Disbursement for contracts of less than US$20,000, incremental operating costs,
cocoa purchases by NMMC, and labor costs would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). All other disbursements would be fully documented (i.e., invoices and
proofs of satisfactory performance of the services, delivery of the goods or other contractual
performance obligations). The project would have adequate and experienced staff and
controls for the preparation of SOEs, for which supporting documentation would be kept for
review by external auditors and IDA supervision missions. Documents relating to individual
SOE items (including price comparisons, bid evaluation and selection documents) would be
retained in a systematic manner to enable verification of procurement procedures used,
contracts signed, purchase orders given and payments made.
4.69   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars
would be established for the project. Upon project effectiveness, an advance of US$500,000
would be deposited into the SA on receipt of a withdrawal application. The SA would be
replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications with relevant supporting documents
(SOEs) and bank account statements.
4.70   Accounting. Auditing and Reporting Requirements. With the accounting system
already established under the on-going project (Cr. 1830-STP), UAP has been maintaining
detailed and consolidated accounts of the entire project. Until now, the accounts have been
regularly audited. However, the audit of the 1990 accounts is overdue. The compliance with



- 39 -
the audit requirements of the Credit Agreement 1830-STP is a condition of effectiveness.
UAP would keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect
the project's operations and financial positions. UAP would annually submit the accounts,
including the Special Account, the SOEs and the revolving fund project account, to an
independent exte:.-nal auditing firm under terms acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and
the auditor's reports, including the Management Letter (Long Form) and a statement as to
whether or not IDA funds had been used for their extended purposes, would be submitted to
IDA within six months from the end of each fiscal year. The audit report on the 1992
accounts would be due by June 30, 1993.
G. Proiect Implementation
4.71 The Cabinet for Coordination and Technical Assistance. DGA would implement and
coordinate the project. Within DGA, GCAT would be responsible for the day-to-day project
management and coordination. GCAT would be strengthened with technical assistance and
would be assisted by UAP for procurement, disbursement and accounting. GCAT would
implement all technical aspects of the land distribution. It would: (a) ensure the
implementation of land distribution procedures and regulations; (b) carry out topographical
land surveys, including delineation of plots, and land evaluations; (c) collect initial
sociological data on potential settlers; (d) prepare land attribution files for decision by the
Land Distribution Commission; (e) assist with the settling-in of the beneficiaries, and
organize, through the nuclei, the distribution of WFP food aid and other support to the new
settlers; (f) deliver the land usufruct contracts; and (g) review and redistribute the already
distributed land.
4.72   GCAT would liaise closely with the Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment
(MSEE). GCAT would, on behalf of the MSEE, deliver the usufruct contracts to those
beneficiaries who fulfill the requirements. GCAT would provide all necessary information to
the MSEE, in charge of the cadastral services and contract registration. It would also liaise
closely with the Directorate of Finance in charge of collecting the payments for the land. It
would provide the Directorate with updated lists of beneficiaries, while the Directorate would
provide GCAT with information on lease payments.
4.73   GCAT would also coordinate and supervise the other project components, except for
the monitoring of the social dimensions component. Through the relationship with UAP, it
would supervise the activities carried out by NMMC with project funds, as well as control the
disbursement of project funds for the maintenance of the immature cocoa areas. However,
the technical execution of all components would remain the responsibility of the services
concerned.
4.74   GCAT would be managed by a high level public servant with field experience. The
appointment of a national manager, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness
of the project. GCAT would be strengthened with technical assistance and would call upon
the services of local consultants with fixed-term task contracts, such as topographers,
sociologists, a land distribution specialist, an administrator, an accountant and an agronomist.
Hence, the number of public servants would not increase and local private sector services
would develop. UAP would be strengthened with technical assistance in accounting and
procurement.



- 40 -
4.75   The Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation (NMMC). 28/ The Nucleus
Management and Marketing Corporation would be a Sao Tome-based company. In order to
attract companies to set up such a venture, DGA would launch a tender for services from
agricultural management companies. The establishment of such a company in Sao Tome
would be a condition for contract award. It would engage in a services contract, acceptable to
IDA, with the M;nistry of Economic Affairs and Finance. No modifications in the contract
would be made without the approval of IDA. In order to be acceptable to IDA, the contract
would have to contain incentives for the company to manage the nuclei cost-effectively and
assure a financial equilibrium. Positive cash flows would be shared between the Government
and NMMC, and the company would be equally responsible for its share in the losses. One
part of the management services would be paid for by the Government with project funds, and
the other part would have to be paid for by NMMC's own operations. NMMC would be
entitled to take up other irreconcilable assignments.
4.76  The overall staffing and salary levels of NMMC would be decided by the company.
However, for the appointment and modifications of key staff positions--manager, accountant
and mechanic-approval would have to be sought from GCAT and IDA. Experience with the
present Cocoa Rehabilitation Project has shown the difficulties of local staff promoted to
managerial positions in estates under management contract. To promote use of local staff,
NMMC would limit employment of expatriate staff and would reduce their number during the
project period. Project support for expatriate salaries would be reduced over the project
period in order to ensure some financial inducement for NMMC to substitute expatriate staff
for local staff.
4.77   NMMC would have full authority over the management of the nuclei that were not yet
privatized. The management contr..ct would specify the overall obligations of NMMC, as
well as some specific programs per nucleus. NMMC would: (a) appoint its own national
managers of the nuclei; (b) have authority to hire and fire staff; (c) decide upon the prices it
would charge to purchase crops from farmers; and (d) control the financial management of the
nuclei, which means that financial surpluses on one nucleus might be transferred to other
nuclei, etc. To benefit from project funds, NMMC would have to follow accounting and
procurement rules acceptable to IDA. These procedures would also include financial and
procurement supervision by GCAT (UAP), as well as financial control by independent
auditors.
4.78   Project Launching Workshop. First Year Implementation and Mid-Term Reviews and
Project Completion Report. A project launching workshop would be held when conditions for
project effectiveness are about to be met. This workshop would clarify procurement,
disbursement, accounting, auditing and management procedures. The implementation of the
project would be regularly reviewed every semester by Bank supervision missions, in
accordance with the supervision plan prepared during appraisal (Annex IV). The reviews
would be supported by GCAT's submission of quarterly progress reports to IDA on the
implementation of the project components. The project would be subject to a first year
implementation review and a mid-term review essentially ained at improving implementation
through updating implementation guidelines and, if necessary, through design modifications.
IDA would participate in the reviews and discuss the results with the Government. The mid-
a&I    Dtied term of refemnce of the NMMC are provided in Annex VII.



- 41 -
term review would evaluate, in depth, the physical and financial implementation of the project
and in particular its development impact. To facilitate this review, the Government would
prepare a mid-term report on the project. During both reviews, the incidence of cocoa export
taxes on private sector earnings would also be examined (para 4.45). Not later than six
months after the completion of the project, the Government would submit to IDA a Project
Completion Report summarizing the achievements of the project and its impact vis-a-vis its
objectives. Details on these activities and reports can be found in Annex IV.
V ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Project Justification
5.1    The profitability of the agricultural sector in Sao Tome has been deteriorating for
more than a decade. This is mainly due to the decline of the cocoa sector, which in turn is
the result of: (a) the old age of the cocoa trees; (b) declining world market prices; and (c) the
inefficient state-run production system employing an excessive number of unproductive
workers. Moreover, development of food crop production and agricultural diversification in
general has been hampered by lack of private land and appropriate price policies. To remedy
the decline in the cocoa sector, the Government hired private agencies to manage and
rehabilitate the estates. Most recently, it leased some estates to the private sector and
distributed large areas of abandoned estates to private individuals. The Govermnent further
undertook pricing reforms, such as the realignment of the exchange rate and the reduction of
cocoa export taxes, with the objective of creating a better macroeconomic environment for
agricultural production.
5.2    These measures, however, have had limited impact, partly because they fail to tackle
the issues of land rights, low labor productivity and local management capacity. The
management contracts turned out be expensive and were established without financial risk-
sharing by the management agencies. Although the agencies were officially permitted to
discipline and to lay off workers, this seemed to be impossible in practice, as the majority of
the workers were civil servants. Less than 10% of the land distributed has effectively been
exploited, mainly because the plots were too large for a local private sector lacking financial
and management capacities. Export taxes have also been reduced, but remain high; some of
the tax rates (on tubers and coffee) are still at 18% ad-valorem. 22/
5.3    The proposed project wouid be a decisive step towards lifting the land tenure and
labor productivity constraints, through privatization of the major part of the cocoa estates and
the establishment of smallholder and medium-sized plantations. This privatizatioll would
allow a shift of productive labor from the public to the private sector, and increase labor
productivity through increased incentives and a more liberal labor regulatory framework. The
project goals are in line with the socio-economic and agricultural development objectives of
the Government, as stated in para 3.35.
2/    Seen Annex I, Table 3 for the ructurm of mS  export ae on agricultural products.



- 42 -
B. Past Financial Performance
5.4    The financial performance and current financial position of the agricultural estates are
bleak. The financial losses of all EEAs in 1990 were estimated at US$2.9 million. Their
accumulated debt with BNSTP alone amounts to US$7.1 million.30/ Some of the estates
have other substantial amounts outstanding with foreign creditors. At present, most of the
EEAs have no funds to pay salaries to laborers and many of the estates remain without
regular maintenance or harvesting, reducing the cash flow even further. The estates under
management contract are better off, but the lack of counterpart funding limits the abilities of
the management agencies to implement their programs. The results on the estates under lease
contract are mixed: the performance of Diogo Vaz is improving, but Agostinho Neto is
accumulating debt with BNSTP and the Government has suspended the lease contract on Santa
Catarina because the land was not cultivated.
C. Future Financial Performance
5.5    The project would reduce the financial losses of the cocoa sub-sector by dividing the
ailing estates into private plots. The current management contracts would be converted into
lease contracts, requiring significant financial inputs and more financial accountability from
the leaseholders. This would improve financial performance. The current lease contracts
would be revised in order to obtain more guarantees for the performance of the estates.
Moreover, the areas of the leased estates would be reduced in order to increase their
productivity. All estate laborers would be laid off but would be given land under the land
distribution scheme. Some of the workers would be re-employed under private sector
conditions. NMMC and other nuclei would belong to the private sector sphere. The
perspectives for their financial performance are sound and they would not require intervention
from the Government, except for the initial contributions provided under the project.Ll/
D. Determinants for Benefits and Costs
1. Project Output
5.6    Technical Aspects. During the first project year the land distribution studies would be
carried out and 1,500 ha could be distributed to some farmer groups. In the second project
year 5,500 ha would be distributed, and in the third and fourth years, 6,500 ha each (see
Annex II, Table 9 for a timetable of land distribution). This means the creation of 1,000
settlements (including 30 medium-sized plantations of 20 ha each) per year. This estimate of
the implementation rate is rather conservative, but takes into account the low implementation
capacity of the Government. It is estimated that NMMC would, within the first year. start
operations and rehabilitate four processing units. These units wouid then be leased or sold to
the private sector within the subsequent two years. The institutional development
components-livestock pilot project, forestry protection program, training, and research-
would be launched from the second projvtt year onwards.
30/    See Annex 1, Table 2: Indebtedness of EEAs.
31t For details on the performances of the NMMC and the nuclei see Annex 11, Tables S to 8.



- 43 
5.7    Yields and Incremental Output. Annual cocoa yields on the private smallholder plots
are assumed to increase through improved maintenance and more regular harvesting from 175
kg to 200 kg per ha. Yields on medium-sized enterprises would reach 400 kg per ha, while
in the rehabilitated and replanted areas of the private estates, average yields would reach 600
and 1,200 kg per ha, respectively. Copra yields, now estimated at 175 kg per ha on the
estates, would increase to 400 kg per ha, simply because the nuts would be effectively
collected. Beef production on coconut areas would be introduced at a rate of I livestock unit
per 7 ha. The project would not, by itself, increase yields on food crops. Existing extension
services and agricultural training, however, would have an impact on the yields and on the
intensification of agriculture. The annual incremental output of the project by the year 2000,
compared to the "without project" situation, would be approximately 2,150 tons of cocoa,
? 900 tons of copra, 25,000 tons of food crops and possibly other production activities by the
pt.vate sector.32/ This incremental output would be achieved through agricultural
intensification and mixed cropping. Smallholders would produce food crops on 10-25% of
the area (1 ha of food crops per 4 ha of cocoa or per 10 ha of coconuts). Cattle would be
introduced on coconut land.
5.8    Annual cocoa production capacity in Sao Tome is expected to rise from about 3,500
tons at the end of the 1980s to 5,400 tons by the year 2000, an increase of about 60%. The
production growth would come from the areas replanted and rehabilitated during the period
1987-91 under the on-going Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, and from increases in production on
the private plots. Some of this production growth could be offset by a possible conversion of
cocoa areas to food crop areas, depending on relative prices. The project would also be
instrumental in upgrading the quality of the cocoa through improved technical conditions in
the curing facilities and through support to upstream applied research. With improved curing
and more regular marketing, it should be possible to obtain higher prices.
2. Markets and Pri-ce-s
5.9    Cocoa. World cocoa prices are expected to recover from their current very low
levels; initially, the increase would be fairly slow but would speed up thereafter.fl/ The
reduction in the world surplus is due to the detrimental effects the recent low cocoa prices
have had on planting and harvesting efforts, which will continue to affect cocoa production in
future years. In parallel, the low cocoa prices have a positive effect on consumption levels.
Sao Tome is a small producer, and its incremental production will not affect the world cocoa
price.
5.10   The actual price received by Saotomean exporters for sales of cocoa on the
international market is proxied by the unit value of exports. Sao Tome cocoa has been selling
at an average discount of 30% below the Ghana unit value of exports. This discount could be
reduced. Projections of export prices of Sao Tome cocoa are based on the those of the ICCO
,V     See Annex 11, Table lI (a).
V/    "Price prospects for Major Primary Commodities", World Bank, Commodities and Projections Division,
December 1990.



- 44 -
world prices.34/ At present, the producer price for cocoa in Sao Tome is 50% of the
FOB price. Increasd competition among the purchasers of cocos could raise the producer
price above the official market value of the commodity by an amount reflecting the foreign
exchange premium.
5.11   CQ. Increased competition on world markets leads to a downtrend in real copra
prices over the long-term.&/ Producer prices for copra in Sao Tome are 35% of the
FOB price. This reflects the significant collection and transport costs involved, The
privatization of the estates would increase production and create economies of scale in
transport and copra processing. These economies could raise producer prices to 4045% of
the FOB price.
5.12   Eood. The profitability of a typical four hectare cocoa farm, interplanted with food
crops, depends also on demand for food--bananas, cocoyam and meat. Banana accounts for a
large share in the typical Sao-iomean diet. It is produced as a subsistence crop, leaving only
a small marketed surplus. As a result, banana prices in the capital are high compared to wage
income. Per-capita consumption of bananas is estimated at 113 kg per annum.36/
Keeping per capita consumption constant and assuming a 2.5% annual increase in population,
total banana consumption will reach 16,000 tons by the year 2000. The project would
contribute to increase the yearly supply of bananas to 180 kg per capita, increasing the
marketable surplus. With appropriate transportation available, bananas should be more
affordable to the urban consumer. Cocoyam is mainly traded through informal channels. An
estimated 15,000 tons of cocoyam were produced in 1990. Cocoyam is sold in the domestic
market and in Gabon, thus far supplied by an informal and unreliable barge trade. A
reduction of the 18% export tax (including a special surcharge of 6% on tubers) could provide
export incentives. Annual meat consumption is currently low, approximately 3 kg per capita.
Little meat is imported. The project is expected to revive beef production in the coconut
areas.
E. Profitability
5.13   Overall Profitability Assessment. The economic and financial returns of the project
are attractive and robust. The main benefits are would be realized through elimination of
financial losses in the estate sector (reduction of excess laborers and overheads) and increased
production of food by released laborers and other smallholders. In the base case, the
Financial Internal Rate of Return is 35%; the Economic Internal Rate of Return is 37%.
Sensitivity analyses on the exchange rate and the labor cost do not show wide fluctuations in
the rates of return, but sensitivity to the rate of re-deployment of the labor force is significant.
It is obvious that there will be little benefit starting the project if the proposed labor reduction
measures are delayed.
M/     World Bank: Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, June 1991. For more details see also
Annex IX.
/I    World Bank: Price Prospects for Major Primary commodities, December 1990.
If/    Gustavo dos Anjos: Estudo 'Luta Contr A Pobreza Em Sao Tome e Prncipe, Sao Tome, Maio 1991.



- 45 -
5.14   Financial Returns to Farmers. Financial returns to smallholders and medium-sized
enterprises have been examined and are presented in Anr. ^ III, Tables 2 to 4. Smallholder
returns per labor day vary from Db800 to Db 1,150, compared to the current daily wage,
including WFP support, of Db600. Farmers operating a 4 ha cocoa farm, intercropped with
food crops, obtain, on average, 125% of an annual family income on estates (Amnex II, Table
2). The first year of settlement would be particularly difficult; hence there will be a need to
assist the settlers with food aid. Because of the greater importance of food crops, the returns
per labor day in coconut areas are higher than in cocoa (Annex II, Table 3). Moreover,
farmers in coconut areas would be able to benefit from additional revenue through beef
production. Medium-sized cocoa plantations, employing outside labor, would be less
profitable (Annex 11, Table 4). Although the financial rate of return on a 25 ha plantation is
high, the gross revenue per annum of the entrepreneur 37/ is low compared to private
sector salaries.
5.15   Financial Returns to Nuclei. The profitability of the nuclei depends on the world
market prices of cocoa and copra and on the applied producer prices. In Annex II, Table 5
the financial results of the nuclei are estimated on the basis of gross and net margins and on
the ratios of profits to sales and to fixed assets (the capital a prospective buyer would have to
invest). Several types of nuclei (and estates) are analyzed: some nuclei would produce cocoa
and buy from smallrtolders in various quantities; others might cnly process their own
production; while particular nuclei would exclusively process cocoa and copra bought from
smallholders. Ratios of profits (before taxes) to sales vary from 9 to 42%, while the ratios of
profits to fixed assets (not including the value of the cocoa trees) vary from 34 to more than
100%. Assuming world prices of cocoa above US$1,000 FOB, the nuclei with their own
production capacity would have larger gross margins than the ones only processing and
marketing the produce from smallholders. At world prices 30% below forecasts, the nuclei
would still be profitable, although margins would be reduced by more than 50%. Nuclei
without cocoa plantings would have greater flexibility, because they can reduce costs by
lowering the cocoa producer price. The nuclei exclusively buying and processing coconuts
would also be profitable, although cattle raising, copra processing and Government reduction
of copra export taxes might considerably increase their financial returns. The estates under
lease contract, such as Uba Budo and Bela Vista, would remain profitable at projected world
market prices and on condition that surplus labor could be reduced (Annex II, Tables 7 and
8). However, their financial results (after export taxes) would become negative when the
FOB price for cocoa falls below US$1,000. For this reason and as explained in para 4.34,
estate lease payments will be linked to international cocoa prices. The export tax issue will be
discussed during the project reviews.
5.16 Profitability of NMMC. The financial profitability of NMMC is shown in Annex II,
Table 6. The positive results during the first years depend on the support by the project.
This support would be eliminated gradually after three years, as all nuclei would have been
privatized and NMMC might have developed commercial activities of its own, including the
leasing of some of the nuclei.
37/    Annual revenue of the entrepreneur would be Db875,OOO or USS3,200 after reimburmement of an initial loan
covering 85% of the investment costs.



- 46 -
5.17   Economic Evaluation. At the outset it is important to bear in mind that the "without-
project" case will imply: (a) further deterioration of the EEAs, inch!dirg the young plantings
on Uba Budo estate; (b) inefficient private sector exploitation of the leased estates;
(c) continuous payment of salary arrears by the Government for non-performing workers;
(d) deterioration of the social indicators; (e) increasing urbanization; and (f) deterioration of
specific macroeconomic variables (balance of payments, employment, revenues, and savings).
The economic impact of this major privatization program will be pervasive throughout the
entire economy, and any attempt to fully quantify these returns will be incomplete.
Nevertheless, confining the economic evaluation to the revenue-earning entities--smallholders
on 20,000 hectares of distributed land and privatized estates--an economic internal rate of
return of about 37% was calculated.38/ The high ERR can be explained by the following
factors: (a) land distribution will increase domestic food production by at least 60% and will
have a positive impact on cocoa and copra yields on smallholder plots; (b) reducing
unproductive salaries creates substantial economic savings; and (c) without further investment
in Uba Budo and Bela Vista, returns on past investments will deteriorate, increased production
will not be processed and young plantings will decay. In estimating the ERR, labor costs
were valued at the opportunity cost of labor, which is roughly 60% of the real rural labor
wages on the estates that include WFP support, and corresponds to what local medium-sized
enterprises pay for their workforces.39/ All costs were estimated net of taxes and duties.
The net present value, at a 12% opportunity cost of capital, is Db6.7 billion (US$24 million).
5.18   Sensitivity. Estimated switching values (at the opportunity cost of capital) suggest
that, to break even, benefits would have to decrease by 62% and the cost increase by 165%.
A paired sensitivity analysis was conducted on the costs and benefits streams to test the
robustness of the project rates of return. The project would continue to yield satisfactory
returns even under adverse scenarios. According to Bank projections,40/ there is a 70%
probability that cocoa prices will fall within the range -26% to +29% around the base line
price forecast. If cocoa represented the totality of the incremental project benefits, this
project would be highly vulnerable to low cocoa prices. However, cocoa accounts for 43% of
the total benefits, food crops for 49%, and copra for 8%. Thus the "weighted" risk of a
decline of cocoa prices on this project is a 35% probability that benefits would fall 11%
below their appraisal value. Should this occur, the economic rate of return would still be
33%. Similarly, project benefits seem robust with respect to copra prices. Since cocoa and
copra prices could also increase, the 70% probability bounds of the project's internal rate of
return are 33% and 40%. Only in the extreme event of a 50% increase in costs, coupled with
a 50% decrease in benefits, will the economic rate of return drop to 10%. The project
returns are also reasonably robust with respect to lags in project implementation. In the event
of a three year lag in implementation, delaying project benefits, the ERR would be about
20%. Based on recent implementation history, the likelihood of such a lag seems remote.
381    For dtails, see Annex 11, Table 13.
3/    WFP support is not a funcial cost. The opportunity cost of labor is about the same as the cash daily wage
of estate workers. This explains also why the FRR and the ERR are almost equal.
4QI    Revision of Primarv Commodity Forecalst and Ouarterlv Review of Commodity Markets-June 1991,
IECIT.



- 47 -
5.19   Balance of Payments Impact. Three elements will positively affect the balance of
payments position: (a) the net increase of cocoa exports (about US$2.7 million per year);
(b) the diversification of exports; and (r' increased food import substitution (about US$7.8
million is annually paid for imported food).
5.20 Fiscal Impact. The project would have a net positive impact rnr the current budget
deficit. The fiscal impact of the project has been simulated in Annex II, Table 14. The direct
negative impact of the labor redundancy payments on the national budget (US$3.4 million)
and the payment of the voluntary departures with AfDB counterpart funds (US$1.2 million)
should be counterbalanced by the reduction of the transfers to the EEAs to pay for their losses
and, to some minor extent, by the receipts of the usufruct rights. If the project is
implemented according to schedule, it is estimated that the cumulative net benefits for the
consolidated National Budget would be US$1.8 million by 1996. In the long run, tax
revenues are likely to increase as a result of increases in (income) taxes. Through the
cadastral services, the project would enhance the feasibility of a land tax at a later stage.
5.21 Monetary Impact. The average rate of inflation during the past five years has been
around 35%. Monetary expansion and the liberalization of prices, including the exchange rate
and the reduction of subsidies on food prices (66% of consumer expenditures), have
contributed to high inflation during the adjustment period. The disbursement of US$17.2
million over a period of five years would be in line with recent experience, namely, of
expenditures around US$40 million for productive sectors in the past five years, within the
Public Investment Program.41/ Mo.eover, investment projects in the PIP tail off in 1992.
Furthermore, the inflationary risks of this investment are low because of the following
reasons: (a) a large share of the investment is related to foreign exchange expenditures for
technical assistance (15% of total cost), capital goods (16% of total cost), and current material
inputs (6% of total cost); and (b) most of the redundancy payments to smallholders (39% of
total cost) substitute for the payment of salaries to estate workers. The reduction of the
number of estate workers would further decrease the fiscal deficit and the overall credit to the
economy.
5.22 Employment Impact. The project may contribute substantially towards the reduction
of unemployment through smallholder settlement and other private sector development. Self-
employment would also improve the quality of the employment.
5.23 Domestic Savings and Investment Impact. Public savings would increase, and formal
and informal private savings and investment would increase as smallholders save and invest
on their family farms once they are guaranteed secure tenure.
F. Development Impact
5.24   Social ImDact. The project would strengthen the social and economic status of farm
workers, by widening the scope of their activities and enabling them to control, and allocate
optimally, their productive assets. The results of a sociological study show that a large
majority (74%) of the current estate workers are interested in a form of production
41I    For detaiLs see Annex 1, Table 5.



- 48 -
arrangement than the current one.42/ Within this group, a little less than 30% are in favor
of an outright division into individual private smallholdings, while about 37% prefer some
sort of associative exploitation of the estate dependencies. The reasons advanced for the last
form of arrangement are: (a) to even out the possible differences in the quality of the
distributed plots; and (b) to retain the capacity to alleviate difficulties in credit, input supply
and marketing.43/ The high frequency of qualified answers provided by the interviewees,
as reported in the study, clearly confirms the need for accompanying measures. The past
could also be playing a role in the hesitancy of some survey respondents--the inability of the
respondents to conceive of any alternative mode of exploitation, although they are clearly
interested in departing from the current arrangement.
5.25   Impact on Women. As head of families, women would receive land on the same
terms as men, and therefore women would be able to produce their own cash and f,od crops.
They would also continue to undertake certain types of wage-employment tasks on the nuclei--
child care, cleaning, sorting and bagging of dry cocoa beans. Smallholder development
would implicitly and necessarily lead to increased participation of women in other cash
generating and diversification activities, such as animal husbandry and marketing.
5.26 Poverty Alleviation. The project essentially addresses the conditions of the rural
estate workers, who belong to the poorest segment of the society. Hardships would occur at
the beginning of the project, although these hardships would be reduced through food aid and
through the payment of redundancy allowances. In the medium-and long-term, the poor,
cultivating valuable and revenue-earning land, would considerably increase their opportunities.
Moreover, by giving up fixed employment, the laborers would be able to concentrate on their
own fields and on more rewarding seasonal employment opportunities (harvesting) on the
estates.
G.    Environmental Impact
5.27   Environmental protection would be ensured through forest conservation measures
calling for legislation, control, and reforestation. A land use plan, delineating primary
forestry reserves, would be designed and implemented. The forest management service would
be strengthened through training and logistical support. A ban on the cutting of cocoa trees
on steep slopes would be enforced, and the planting of fast growing indigenous fuelwood trees
would be encouraged. More fuel-efficient driers in the nuclei and more smallholder sun-
drying of cocoa would reduce the use of fuelwood. Moreover, privatization of land would
contribute to improved land management and reforestation.
H. Benefits. Risks and   oevygd
5.28    Prima  benfit of the project would be to: (a) halt the decline in export crop
production and foreign exchange revenues; (b) increase domestic food crop production and
reduce food imports, for a sustainable saving of foreign exchange; (c) eliminate the financial
42 Distribuican das tenus e motivacao dos trabathadores, Maria A.N. Trovoada, May 1991.
Of    Given that the choice of the associative form of exploitation was most prevalent among the Cape Verdians, it
could also reflect a strategy for this non-native population group to secure tenure of land (the presumption being
that they will be lass vulnerable to eviction as a group than as individuals).



- 49 -
deficits of the estate sector through gains in management efficiency and increases in labor
productivity; (d) increase the sustainable income of the rural population; (e) protect forestry
resources and the environment; (f) intensify agricultural production methods; and (g) increase
the quality of cocoa.
5.29     gndrybnefit would be to: (a) create an independent farming community;
(b) achieve greater independence from food aid; (c) generate local entrepreneurship;
(d) develop agricultural management capacity; (e) implement land use planning; (f) diversify
the economy; and (g) increase economic stability. Benefits to target beneficiaries would be:
(a) access to land; (b) decreased dependency on unsustainable wage income; and (c) upgraded
social environment. Institutional benefits would be: (a) improved planning capacity in DGA;
(b) creation of an entity in charge of forestry and environmental issues; (c) better trained
private sector staff; and (d) improved performance of the DGA services.
5.30   The major risks would be: (a) the inability of the Government to maintain a macro
and sector policy environment conducive to the rehabilitation of the economy (in particular the
exchange rate policy), land reform and pricing policies (in particular wage policies); (b) the
possibility of a decline in international cocoa prices; and (c) the unwillingness of the private
sector to engage in agriculture.
5.31   The measures to safeguard against these risks would be:
(a) Macro and sector policy environment. The implementation of the second
Structural Adjustment Program would assure that the macroeconomic framework
remains favorable to the development of the agricultural sector. The project would be
instrumental it, implementing the policy measures proposed in SAP H. The measures
include: 'i) adopting a flexible exchange rate policy to narrow the spread between the
official and parallel market exchange rate to a maximum of 15%; (ii) decreasing the
overall level of cocoa taxation and simplifying the cocoa export tax system; (iii)
adopting a plan to improve the quality of cocoa and streamline marketing; (iv)
formulating a land distribution strategy and timetable; (v) adopting land distribution
legislation, including property ownership rights; and (vi) adopting an action plan for
the reorganization of the cadastral offices and land registration procedures.
(b) International cocoa prices. The major benefits of the project will be derived from
an expansion of food crops. Cocoa prices are at their lowest point in history.
Commodity price forecasts are optimistic in the medium-term. Moreover, counter-
cyclical planting (i.e., planting during periods of low prices) is in general rewarding,
as prices tend to rebound after a slump. There is, however, no guarantee that prices
will rebound. Therefore, the project provides instruments and incentives to diversify
agriculture and to expand other crops. In addition, to promote diversification, the
Govermnent will encourage joint ventures between foreign importers and local
producers.
(c) The unwillingness of the private sector to invest in agriculture. A sociological
study has shown that more than 70% of the estate workers are in favor of cultivating
their own plots as opposed to working on estates. Some hesitancy is to be expected in
the early stages of the project. Since NMMC would provide agricultural inputs and a
reliable market for the farmers' produce, their trust in the land distribution system



- 50 -
should increase. Once trust is established, the Government will be able to transfer the
nuclei to interested parties. Moreover, the Government will not impose minimum
producer prices. The absence of administered prices and the new investment code
would be a sufficient guarantee of the profitability of the nuclei, and would attract
private investors. The existence of NMMC would also help to ensure that, in case no
private investors are found to take over the nuclei, a private company with interests in
the financial results of the nuclei would remain caretaker of the Government assets.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)    The Government would distribute the land in accordance with the agreed land
distribution procedures; it would distribute at least 75% of the estate land to
be distributed to smailholders in plots not exceeding 10 ha (para 4.10) and
redistribute the already distributed land according to the established
procedures by December 31, 1994 (para 4.14); it would also try to release
land for prompt distribution from estates covered by estate lease and
management contracts (para 4.34);
(b)    Not later than September 1, 1992, GCAT would employ a land distribution
specialist and a chief topographer, and DGA would employ a qualified
accountant/procurement specialist, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(paras 4.14 and 4.62);
(c)    The Govermnent would distribute WFP food supplements to new settlers free
of charge during the first twelve months following the acquisition of their land
under the land distribution scheme. For this purpose, the Government would
seek assistance from WFP for the food aid component before December 31,
1992 and obtain the effectiveness of a new Grant Agreement with WFP before
June 1, 1993 (para 4.24);
(d)   The Government would offer to the employees of the estates, not later than
September 30, 1992, a program for voluntary departures acceptable to IDA,
and implement such program in a timely manner (para 4.19);
(e)    The Govermment would provide appropriate retirement benefits and severance
benefits to employees retired or laid off; it would ensure that adequate annual
budgetary allocations are made for these purposes (para 4.20); the permanent
staff of the agriculture estates would not exceed 6,500 by December 31, 1993,
and would be decreased in accordance with progress on the land distribution
and privatization programs and at a rate acceptable to IDA (4.22); the
Government would issue guidelines delineating the respective rights of rural
employers and employees and acceptable to IDA not later than December 31,
1992 (para 4.30);
(f)    Ihe Government would operate the state nuclei through the NMMC, or
through any other private sector arrangement acceptable to IDA. The



- 51 -
Government would use its best efforts to sell the nuclei to the private sector
on reasonable commercial terms and, to the extent, such sale is impracticable,
to replace the NMMC with private sector lessees on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 4.33). These terms would require the leaseholder:
(i) to supply an operations and development plan, fully financed with
confirmed sources of finance; (ii) to supply a bank guarantee in relation to the
value of the fixed and mobile assets; and (iii) to pay a lease price in line with
the physical condition and the production potential of the estate (para 4.35);
(g)    The Government would ensure that DGA's agents carry out bi-monthly
inspections of the NMMC's cocoa purchases and credit recovery activities
(paras 4.4041);
(h)    The Govermnent would not impose minimum producer prices during the
project life (para 4.44); would reduce the export tax on cocoa in a manner
acceptable to IDA (para 4.45); and would reduce the WFP subsidies to estate
workers according to the agreed schedule (para 4.27); and
(i)    The Government would participate in a First Year Implementation Review one
calendar year after the date of effectiveness and a Mid-Term Review two and
a half years after the date of effectiveness (para 4.78).
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
6.2    The project would become effective subject to the following conditions:
(a)    The Government shall have appointed a manager of GCAT with qualifications
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and such manager shall be in
place (para 4.74)
(b)    The Government shall have issued procedures (by decree, regulation or other
act), acceptable to IDA, for the distribution of land under the land lax. No.
3/91 (para 4.7);
(c)    The permanent staff of the agricultural estates shall not exceed 7,750 in the
aggregate (para 4.22);
(d)    The Government shall have established a land distribution commission
responsible for overseeing the distribution of land, with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA and adequately staffed (para 4.13); and
(e)    The Government shall have submitted to IDA the audit reports required under
Section 4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement (Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project), dated September 2, 1987, between the Government and IDA (para
4.70).



- 52 -
Conditions for Disbursement:
6.3   Specific conditions for disbursement are:
(a)    The successful contracting of the Nucleus Management and Marketing
Corporation for disbursement of expenditure under category 1.B (paras 4.42
and 4.67); and
(b)    The conversion of management contracts to lease contracts as a condition for
disbursement of investmnent expenditure in the estates concerned--categories
1.C and 1.D (paras 4.36 and 4.67).
Recommendatign:
6.4    Based on the above agreements reached, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR7.3 million (US$9.8 million equivalent) to the Government of the Democratic
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.



- 53 -
.
ANNEXES



- 54  -                                                   ANNEX  I
Table 1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODUCTION OF THE EEAo
(in metuic ton)
Cocoa P,oductlon         CoPoa    Palm Kemrlb       Coffee    Polm ON
1980 1987 1988 1989 1990    1980 1989   1980 1989   1980 1089   1900 109
1 UBA BUDO             611  246  46S  410  330       128
2 BELA VISTA          1105  644  731  621  660    401   61
3 SANTA MAROARIDA   880  666  633  650  660            7
4 AQUA IZE             761  566  702  603  200       422  170
6 MONTE CAFE           164   76   83   43   20
6 AGOSTINHO NETO       841  663  630  640  388       315  179
7 DIO10 VAZ            449  269  374  224  216       124   83
* MILAGROSA            687  261  224  146  100
S SANTA CATARINA       360  127  133   75  100        73   39
10 PONTA FIGO           766  238  236  266  104        46    7
11 RIREIRA PEIXE        105   17   11    2    1    613  273
12 PORTO ALEGRE          41   10   14   18    6       842  603
13 COLONIA ACORIANA    177   71  144  108   60        262   82
14 SUNDY                110  109  116   68   93       540  184
*16 PORTO REAL          109   43   69   28   36        638  118
16 OTHERS                                     350
TOTAL              7036 3893 4664 3702 3202    4301 1699    698   40    7Z2    8   467  271



- 55 -                                      ANNEX I
Table 2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDEBTNESS OF THE EEAs
fin Db end 19901
Former          Now            Debt
Enteprise                  Manaaement    Manaaement            Total
Dlrect Manaoement
COLONIA ACOREANA              50.376.771                    50.376.771
MILAGROSA                     53.197.597                    53.197.597
PONTA FIO                     49.596.113                    49.596.113
PORTO ALEGRE                  26.482.747                    26.482.747
PORTO REAL                    28.774.691                    28.774.591
RIBEIRA PEIXE                 79.010.920                    79.010.920
SUNDY                         42.679.485                    42.679.485
Total                       330.118.224       0           330.118.224
Management Contract
AQUA IZE                      22.829.496    162.936.876     185.766.372
BELA VISTA                    61.927.286  26.063.200111     87.990.486
MONTE CAFE                    71.247.301                    71.247.301
SANTA MARGARIDA               37.176.794                     37.176.794
UBA 8UDO                      65.184.659  28.715.000 111    93.899.659
Total                       258.366.636    217.715.076    476.080.612
Leave Contract
AGOSTINHO NETO               109.381.060     16.500.000     125.881.060
01000 VAZ                     34.515.125                    34.515.125
BANTA CATARINA                48.176.471                    48.176.471
Total                       192.072.656     16.500.000    208.672.656
TOTAL                      780.656.416    234.215.076    1.014.771.491
Source: BNSTP
(1l Advance. from BNSTP corrfeponding to State contribution



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
SAO TOME AND PRlilCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOiENT PFiOJECT
STRUCTURE OF STP EXPORT TAXES
(m of May 1991 )
General                Contribution        Total
Direct Taxes           Cuturn       Special     for Rustic   Ad-Valorem
Commodity       Rate      Surcharoe       Dyut     6% Dutv       Buldlagg        Uability
1%)             196       1%)          (%1        (Db/gKl           (%)
Cocoa            9                        1            none          none              10
Copra            8                        I            none          none              9
Coconut          7                        1            none          none              8
Coffee           13          1.3          1               6    Dbe .50/kg            21.3
Tubers           10          1            1               6    Dbc .50hkg              18
Source: Sao Tome and Principe, Dlr.cao da Alfandega.



57 -                                          ANNEX I
Table 4
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF STP IMPORT TAXES
las of May 1991)
Import      Industrial       General      Consumer
Product                  Duty    Contribution   Costuma Duty           Tax
Clothe                7.35% adv      5.25% adv         5% adv      5.75% adv
Cotton                17.65 adv     5.25% adv         5% adv      6.76% adv
Silk                                5.25% adv         5% adv
Drinks
Wine                  Db 3.j1 At    5.25% adv         6% adv    Db 17.25/1
Aguardent            Db 80.11/it    5.25% adv         5% adv      Db 86.26/1
Beer                Db 26.48/kg     5.25% adv         5% adv      Db 12.08/u
Construction
Material
Cement            6% advalorem      5.25% adv         6% adv
Iron                 Db 1.10/kg     5.25% adv         5% adv
Sanitary             4.4% adval     5.25% adv         6% adv
Fibrociment          Db 1.32/kg     5.25% adv         5% adv
Steal sheets         Db 1.10/kg     5.25% adv         6% adv
Fuel                                                                  DbAiltre
Petroleum            Db 1.175/1     5.25% adv         6% adv           4.69
Diesel               Db 0.934/1     5.25% adv         5% adv          8.612
Gasolin               Db 4.28/1     5.25% adv         6% cdv         10.408
Fertilizers          0.75% adval     5.25% adv         5% adv
Kitchen Usten          15% adval     5.25% adv         5% adv    17.25% adv
Food
Beane/puls           Db 8.80/kg     6.25% adv       3.5% adv
Wheat flour               none           none           none
Milk                      none           none           none
Sugar                 Db 6.0/kg     5.25% adv       3.5% adv
Ries                 Db 10.0/kg     5.25% adv       3.5% adv
Ediblh Oil          Db 32.50/kg     6.25% adv       3.5% adv
Others
Refrigerators        15% adval      5.25% adv         5% adv      11.5% adv
Air Conditioner,      6% adval      5.26% adv         6% adv      11.6% adv
Souroe: Sao Tome and Principe: Direcao da Alfandega



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDiER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT & PUBUC FINANCING
(Db Million)
1975      1977      1979      1981       1983      1985      1987      1988      1989       1990
Revenue                                 158       351       651       644       512        684       785      1081       1560      1707
Cunent Expendhises                      147       175       363       516       768       717       1148      1469      1849       1854
PublicSavings                            11       175       188       128       -256       -33      -363       -388      -289      -157
Public Invesment Program lPIP)           83       189       320       241       357        582       779      1504      4571       4781           1
Of wlch Agricuhure                        8        23        53        85         66        18       228      1173      3609       3974          0
(As % of PIP)                          (10)       12)       (17)      (35       (181       (3)       136)      (781      165)      (83)           1
Foreign Finandng                        61        153        77        97        168       332       615      1399      4113      4323
(As % ao PIP)                          (73)       (o8l      124)      (40t      147)       (57)      (79)      193)      190)       (90)
Sources: Economic Poicy Paper, Democratic Repubric of Sao Tome and Principe, 1989 p.2 (1975-1988J: PER. World Bank, July 1990.
r x
U'I-



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRlCULTURAL PRODUCTION AREA AND EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
Non-                       F@od                          Land to be       Nu_br Wokes  Wo"m to   Aea tba)
dcdo Are th)               Cocoa  Prouctiw Coconut O j Coff   Crpus Patute   Other TOTAL   DIstdbuted Nucleus Worker  Retained  be lid off  per r
II)      12)    13)    14)   15)   161   I)    IS)    19)             (10)   till   112)    113)       1141      tt6)
PEA t_dw Meneasment Centnct
USA SUDO                    2,030                              2    67            807  2.906          99  2,000    171      710        261        0.4
9ELA VISTA                  1,736              187    220      0    15              0  2.167        1,142  1.000    860     346        506        2.3
SAKTA MARGARIDA             1,708        0       0    118                          50  1.876        1,208    600    885     206        680        1.8
MONTE CAFE                   61b                             668                        1.183        883    300    460      149        301        2.9
ub-Toti                   .6088        _0   187    338   570    82               S67  8.122       3,332  3.800  3.tS6    1.409      1,747        1.6
FEA tUnde L-eada Con_ect
DWOM VAZ                    1.000        0    200    100                         3,700  5,000      1,0S0    260    560      135        415        2.6
SANTA CATAlA                1.671       613    196                               1,307  3.787       1,867     0    500       50        46i       4.1
A£08104 NETO                2,622              481    732    47    47    302  1,940  6.071          3,881    260    322     136        787       4.9                1
Sb-Tatd                    5.193      613    877    832    47    47    302  6.047 14.             65798    SOO   1.72      320      1 662       4.1
tI_  Dltd _ovannwut  _mwont
AUA IZE                   2430       1.600    588   366                           48  5,032        4,984     0  1.100       60      1.060        4.7
SUM  PRCWMI                 1,346              726    442    10                  1.461   3,974      2.523     0    378       60        328        7.7
PORTO REAL PRINi)          l.60               1.069    292    30    40           5,295  8,326       3,031     0    560       SO        61O        6.9
POITA FIGO                  1,600       667    Ilt     28    20    62                   2,368       2,368     0    618       50        568       4.2
hREIA PENCE                   24             2.769    160          127           8.793  11.873      3,080     0    129       60         79       39.0
P01O ALERE                              123  1,767      9           28           8,292  10,219      1,927     0    282       s0        232       8.3
_AGROSA                      GM                                                   200  1,000        80       0    298       60        248        3.2
COLOMA ACOREANA             1,196              116                               1.079  2.390       1.311     0    314       s0        264        5.0
-Ttld                     am8.8      2.390  7.146   1.297     o   247          26,1C8 46182      20.024      _  3,79       400      3.279       $-
_*n" El,ODO" 1.00                                           9,000                10,0DO
TOTAL GENEROAL           21.176      2993  8209  2.467   67  9.376    302 32.962 78,162          30.164  4.300  8.807   2.129        .678       4.6
Sore: Entudo se_nea Re_rgeuleacao do sector Agdcole do Exportacao
IU) = th of poductvw cocoa; 12) = He of non-productie cocoa; 13).141.1,).16) nd t71 = He of productwv crops;                                                       
8- forest end unproducdve uses. 1101 = He to be dtnumted, (Illl = am  esdinted to remaIn undeo nucleus;                                                         (D X
112) - wtud nnber of penunent workers 1131 = works to be enployed by nucdl; 116) = land to be dastubuted per worker to be laid off;                              0 



- 60  -                                            ANNEX  II
Table 1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED YIELDS OF MAJOR CROPS
!i                       3       4       I      I       Z
COCOA (with orolactl
Pulvau Estate
rplbnted areas                   kg/ha    75     75    I50    300    460    650    6O0   1,200   1,200
rohabiltated area,               kg/ha   150    200    300    400    500    600    0o0         600    6oo
Medlum Was plantation,             kg/ha   200    260    300    360    400    400    400    400    400
Snelholder plantations             kg/he   150    17E    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
COCOA (without aroloct)            kg/ha   156    156    156    156    156    156    1se    166    156
COPRA (with DrolMt)                kg/ha   176    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
COPRA (without orolect)            kg/he   176    175    175    176    176    176    175    175    175
FOOD CROPS lintoeronelna)
Maltk                            kg/ha    0      76    150    160    150    150    160   10    1IO
Bananas                          kg/ha    0    180    360    360    360    360    360    360    360
Rootorops                        kg/ha    0    376    760    760    760    760    750    750    760



-61  -                                              ANNEX  II
Table  2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET FOR 4 HA OF COCOA
Yean            1          2          3          4         5          6
Pioduction and revnu_      Unit    Puce
Cocoa                      Kg                     6oo       700        800        8G0        800       800
Revenue                   Db         144      86,112    100,4G4    114,816    114,816    114,816    114,816
maIze                      Kg                     600       600        600        60         600        600
Revenue                   Db          36      21,600     21,600    21.600     21,600     21,600     21,600
Platain                    Bunch                    0       120        120        120        120        120
Revenue                   Db         720          0      86,400    86,400     86,400     86,400     86,400
YOnM                       4                    3,000      3,000      3,000     3.000      3,000      3,000
Revenue                   Do          24      72,000     72,000    72,000     72,000     72,000     72.000
Food aid                                      120,485
200.197    280.44    204,816    294.816    204.816    294.816
F9ne labor Invt
4ooo                      n d                    t80       180        180        180        180       180
aiee                      md                     31ii       36         35         36         35        35
,tantabd                  md                     25        1i          15         15         16        16
VeA                       rl                     so         so60       50         50         60        s0
¢tRa4zbeR$Sta    12R                    Mip.       a22        280                  280        280
IAkb!)T                    04W       W25q     ?:14'4w    100*0    1 ,n0oo    100,800    100,800    100,800
Uwe"                       Pb                  29,X14     23*6'4,    Xt.,514    23,614    23,614     23,614
EquIPWAG nOt Ob                                k8,20       t,0*       4,040     6,040      6.040     25,840
T.Y-4s2miE                a                                        1,UVAg  148(<    -Wh4  28.564  28.6S4  49.354
Io*tia Rem'nu itufornvy I.W  C>                It    t  ,SW'%   df6 262    266,262    266,262   246,462
Levy                       Db                                        1-!,S17   12.917     12,917     12,917
LwGi  mvts                                                                          6 6   6    6          6
Annual gmen nvrn&j         Otb 244,VjJ   ' -41s    Z&i3 14S    253,346    263,346    232,646
Not ncomer pt mn                                  "A"       I          806        905        906       831
Pow anuwal ls              Ob                 20w,1W                  LOS 2 .S    201,965    201,6t5   201.966
lfato     uAWIn-IA menOW l   Db                  Ak;.!f  ~i,4'tA    Q.1' JO    61,390     61.390     30,690
Atgvein Sr ZK*ud Ir.x0ctl                          1 7        1Y.'      26         26         26         15
Y1id aL      w  t: C,os: 160117U/200 kqtk', Io t- eoo   ,A-   W      t; erlantean 12kg bunch pet plant.
rain labor coat 30 L%b Pei mendy, Platain plent:. 'R ibt4w Ot , heaa gt ba a' s A m
6oett: P,I OCt; O bwmals: 5kg fungcdexat8  D .tlw... - t..Z r. ..r -; t Zument: 6% of labor coat + 1 sprayer/Gym.
(oast ior lsntdvl  . s'a 16% of leaoted Y"edy ovwlauo 1.-e:o i O.le ks  $ud-
FP6i,: 4trw OT, ! FOS *092: other products: logeao tMal 1.,A 0  ,;
F,sad a.: 'i AlmuO A 4 vmtlona x .46 kg x *.69.
yam mIJi" IUvs tys dy uadq + food aId) x total number of Eat i Y
AZ llorf.. am *a tod i1 September 1991 exchange W.* vd)wtowrt.



- 62 -                                             ANNEX  II
Table 3
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND 8MALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET FOR 10 HA OF COCONUTS
Years            1         2
Production and evenue      Unit   Pice
Coconuts                   Nuts                ;L0,000    20,000     20,000    20,000     20,000     20,000
Revenue                   Db         3.4      67,340     67,340    67,340     67,340     67,340     67,340
MWIze                      Kg                   1,500      1,500      15        1600       1,500      1,500
Revenue                   Db          36      54,000     54,000    54,000     54,000     54,000     54,000
Pbntaln                    Bunch                    0       300        300        300        300       300
Revenue                   Db         720           0    216,000    216,000    216,000    216,000    216,000
Yom                        Kg                   3,500      3,600      3,500     3,500      3,500      3,500
Revenue                   Db          24      B4,000     84,000    84,000     84,000     84,000     84,000
Food ald                   Ob                 120,485
Total Revenue             Ob                 325,825    421t340    421,340    421,340    421,340    421.340
Fwm labor Input
coconut                   md                     170       170        170        170        170       170
Maize                     md                     88         88         88         s8        68         88
Plantain                  md                      63        38         38         38         38        38
Yam                       md                     50         50         50         50        60         50
Total man days            md                     370       345     345           34        346        346
Labor                      Db         360     133,200    124,200    124,200    124,200    124,200    124,200
Inputc                     Db                  25,400     16,400     16,400    16,400     16,400     16,400
Equipnmnt                  Db                   6,660      6,210      6,210     6,210      6,210      6,210
Total Costa              Db                   32.060     22.610    22.610     22,610     22,610     22.610
3rown Revenue before levy  Ob                 203,766    398,730    398,730    398,730    398,730    398,730
Levy                       Db                       0      4,419      4,419     4,419      4,419      4,419
Not Revenue                Db                 293,766    394,311    394,311    394,311    394,311    394,311
Levy/gmro* rwnue           %                        0          1         1          1          t1
Net Income per man day     Db                     794      1,143      1,143     1,143      1,143      1,143
Pest annual Income         Db                 266,869    248,837    248,837    248,837    248,837    248,837
Not gan In annual Incomm   Db                  26,896    146,474    146,474    146,474    146,474    146,474
NMt gain In annu llIncom   %                       10         E8        58         58         E8        s8
Ybid assumptione: Coconute: 2000 nuts/ha, Maize: 1,600 kg/hb; Yam: 10,000 kg/ha; Plantain 12kg bunch per plant.
Hilad labor cost: 360 Db per ninday; Plantain plants: 30 planta per ha at 30 Db per plant.
Saeds: 6,260 Db; Ratickd: 0.6kg x 2030Db/ha; Cost for leing land: 16% of edtimetd yeady revenue befor
land dstrlbutun. Puiceo: coconut 35% of FOS 1992; other products: local May 1991 puices + 20%.
Food aid: 365 days x 4 rations x .46 kg x 469.
Pat annual Income: Iyrady saary + food aId) x total number of labor dayrI260 days.
AV figures are adjuted to September 1991 exchange rate adjustmunt.



- 63 -                                             ANNEX  II
Table 4
SAO TOMAE AND PRMNCIF
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET FOR 26 HA OF COCOA
Year          .1         1          3         4                    1       Zi0
Production and tunmover   Urdt       P#c
Cocoa                     Kg                   6,000      6,250      7,S00     8,730     10,000     10,000    10,000
Yblds                     Kg/he                  200        250       300        350       400        400        400
Revenue                  Db         144    717,600   S97,000  1,076,400  1,255,300  1,436,200  1,436,200  1,436,200
Maze                      Kg                   3,600      3,600      3,60      3,600      3,600     3,600      3,600
Revenue                  Ob          36     125,600   129,600    120,600   129,600      29,600    129,600    120,600
blntaln                   Bunch                    0        750       750        750       760        750        750
Rowenue                  Ob         720           0   540,000   S4C,000   540,000    540,000      4,OOO    540,000
Yom                       Kg                   5,000      6,000      5,000     5,000      5,000     s,ooo      5,000
Revenue                  Db          24     120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000    120,000
Tot l Tumov r                               90.200  1.686.000  1.600.000  2.04C.400  2.24B0   2.224,I00  2.2241,0
Farn labor Input
Cocoa                    rnd                  1,25      1,463     1,376      1.438      1,500     1,500      1,500
Mbae                     mnd                    150        150       110        IS0       150        150       1SO
Pantain                  rnd                    130        so         60         60        80         80        80
Yam                      md                      70        70         70         70        70         70        70
Total rnndav                                  UI in7 I3            1.07S      1.738 L         1.800 i.        1.800
Labor                     Ob         360     675,000    634,500    603,000   625,600   648,000    646,000    646.000
Manageomnt cota            Db                390,000    39),OOO   300,000    300,000 3900000    380,000    3900000
Planting meteodia          Db                357,600      5,000     s,ooo     s5ooo       5.000     5,000      s,ooo
Ch emcal Inputs           Db                 165,690   165,690    160,690   166,090   166,600    165,6090    165,690
Equipment                 Db                  76,750     31,726     30,150    31,275     32,400    62,400    32,400
Total Coe                PA                10-03-940  1.220.916  1.193.840  J1217iE406  J1.41,0   1.271.0B0  1.241.090
Gross Revenue before levy  Ob                (696,740)  460,695    672,160   827,935    983,710    953,710    963,710
Lovy                      Db                       0    107,640   107,640    107,640    107,640    107,640   107,640
Net Rewenue               Db                 (696.740)   352,046   564,520    720,295   876,070    346,070   876,070
Levy/gms revenue          %                        0         23        16         13        11         11         11
Loan dleburementa          Db                635,190         0          0          0
Cumulative loon           Db                            935.190   B335190   835,190
Reimbursements            Int%         6                141,760)   141,760)   (41.700)  (164,647)  (164,647)  1164,547)
Not cohiflg              P                  1384S0   3102S    622.761    6785636    711.623    081.S23   711.523
Note:        NPV          '00ODb   4,364             FIRR 1%)        78.06
!dca: cocoa 60% of FOB 1992; other produote: local laY 1991 pdc.e + 20%.
Yeld. meuniptone: MaIzo: 1,600 kglh; Yam: 10.000 kalha; Fantain 12kg bunch per pbnt.
HMid labor coat: 300 Db per nrndey; Plntin p_nt: 30 pnbt/h at 30 Db per plnt.
Cocoa rhadtason: rmplantg of 6,500 *adnga at 60 DbleeeAng In yr 1 plue 275 mnndeVy.
Labor Inpute for cocoa a40 mendeya per ha plum 1 mnday for every 20kg harvest.
MaHgement cohts I   de      of magr 1300,000 Db/annum).
Seade: 6,000 Db; Clhencde: 71t fungicide x iOI)b1t/alWyr + I kg nrdek x 2030ODbibeayr
Coat of bodng lnd: 15% of  aly aetimeted revnue before land detlbutlon.
EqIpment: 6% of labor coat + 2 apryers/5 ryeal.
Loan Is provied at 5 % rtel ntert rte; Intat cn pdncipal ar due yearly; rlmburmeente re achdubed over 6 yearn wIth a fizd annuity.
Loan nudee: 35 % of labor coast plue 10096 of pnting matedlde, chenaze an equipment.



*  - 64 -                                             ANNEX II
Table 5
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHCLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT OF NUCLEI
The financial results of the nuclei are estimated on the basis of yearly income statements. For reasons of
simplicity only gross and net margins, the ratios of profits to sales and to fixed assets are shown. Several types of
nuclui are analyzed: (i) some nuclei will produce cocoa and buy from smallholders in various quantities (typos 1,
III and IV), others may not buy from smaliholders (type 11), whilc still other nuclei will only process the cocoa
and copra bought from smalUholders (types V and VI). The fol'. wing table summarizes the financial results of the
nuclei for 1992. A sensitivity analysis has been done on the financial results on the basis fluctuations in the world
price of cocoa. At world prices 30% below the forecasted prices, the r.uclei would still be profitable, although the
profitability would be significantly reduced: margins would be reduced by more than 50%.
TYPE I    TYPE 11   TYPE IiI   TYPE IV    TYPE V      Type VI
Cocoa +     Cocoa    Cocoa +    Cocoa +    Purchae
Nuclid                                          Purchase  Production   Purchase   Purchase      Onlv   Coconuts
Production Activtties
Productlon Area             Ha                    1,000      1,000      1,000        200          0          0
RehabUlitated              Ha                     800       1,000          0        200          0          0
Replanted                  Ha                     200           0      1,000          0          0          0
Cocoa Production            Ton                     920        SO0      1,400        620        700          0
Rehabilitated              Ton                    480        6OO           0        120          0          0
Replanted                  Ton                    240           0      1.200          0          0          0
Purchased                  Ton                     200          0        200        600        700          0
Coconuts purchoaed          Nuts                                                                      6,000,000
Turn.pver                  '00ODb               264.077    172a224    401t866    177,965    &aQ,9O       67 720
Prodetion Costs In '000 Ob
Labor                       Db/md      360       26,200     25,200     26,200      6.040          0          0
Inputs                      Dblha    98,32        8,932     90932       9,932       1,986         0          0
Transport                   Db/Ton   10,500       9,660      6,300     14.700      6.610       3.675      1,500
Processing                  Db/Ton   13,440      12,366      8,064     18,816      8,333       9,408      6,376
Marketing                   %Salee      2.6        660         431     1t006         446        602        144
Purchase*                   Db/kg       144      28,704          0     28,704     71.760    100.464      20,202
Management expenses         %ales        12      31.689     20,667     48.223     21,366      24,111      6,926
Other costs                 %Coate       U        5,911      3,530      7,329      6,771       6,908      1,707
Financial charges           %Sales        6      15,845     10,333     24,111     10,678      12,066      3,463
Depreciation               '000 Db               20,800     20,800     20,800      7,800       6,500      3,900
Total Cost '000 Db                              160.766    1065267    198#820    139.679    13,0         43.219
Gross nargin               '000 Ob              103,311     66,067    203,036     38,286      37,304     14,501         -
Export taxes                %FOB         10      26.408     17.222     40.186     17,706      20,093      6,772
Net mnrgin                 '000 Db               76,004     49,746    162,861     20.489      17,211      8,729
Net nwrgin/turnover         %                        29         29         41         12           9         1S
Nat margin/asets            %                        49         32        104         39         44          34
Note:
AU cot are *tablIshed In 1992 prices: cost are based on histodcal costs of two plantations adjurted for exchangs rate adjustment end Inflation.
Transport cost Include colleting wet beans from the boards of fatmer' fields.
Management expanses are stimated at S600,000 dolbr eqivalent per year for all nucleus, this represents 12 % of totad tumover.
Depeciation of cocoa nucleus Includes per nucleus: $200,000 equdvalent of transport equipment and *400.000 of ptocessing equlpment.
Depreclatit.n of coconut processing nucleus: *50000 of tensport equlpment and *S0O000 of processing equlpment.
Assta are calculated on the basis of Invwrtmnt In procassing and transport equIpment: value of plantings Is not Included.
Yilids on replanted aras: 1,200 kg/ha, on  'ablltated rea: 600kg/ha.
Cocoa price: *1.104/ton FOB; copra price *185/ton FOB.
* Cocoa farm gate price: 60 % of FOB pfice; Coconut farm gate pdce: 35 % of FOB pr1cc.



- 65-                                        ANEX II
Table 6
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRiVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NUCLEUS MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING CORPORATION: INCOME STATEMENT
Cocoa production marketed by NMMC according to the estimated privatization time schedule
Cocoa   Production            Marketing by NMMC
Year 0       Total      Year 1    Year 2   Year 3
(Ha)          (Tons)
AGUA IZE                           2.430         S05         605       505
PONTA FIGO                         1,500         245         245       245      246
RIBEIRA PEIXE                         24          40          40
PORTO ALEGRE                           0          13          13
MILAGROSA                            800         204         204
COLONIA ACORIANA                   1.196          99          99        99
AGOSTINHO NETO                      1,522        555
SANTA CATARINA                      1.671        131         131       131       131
BEA VISTA                          1.735         610
UBA BUDO                           2.030         329
BANTA MARGARIDA                    1,708         538
DIOGO VAZ                          1.000         330
MONTE CAFE                           615          51
SUNDI                              1,345         107         107       107      107
PORTO REAL                         1.600          65          65        65       e6
TOTAL                             19,176       3,822        1,409     1.152     548
CASHFLOW OF THE NUCLEUS MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING CORPORATION
(in '000 Dbl
Cocoa sales                  Quantity      (Ton)       1.409     1.1S2      548
FOB Price    lOITon)       1,104     1.142    1.181
Tumover                      '000 Db                 404 439   342,052  168,269
Morketina and Proceasina Costs
Purchaso of Cocoa                                    202.220   171,026   84.134
!50% of FOB price)
TranMport                Db/Ton           10.500      14.795    12.096   5754
Processing               Db/Ton           13.440      18.937    15.483    7,365
Marketing                % of sales        2.50%      10.111     8.551    4.207
Overheads                % of sales         5.0%      20.222    17.103    8.413
Other Cost               % of costs         5.0%       3.203     Z662    1.287
Financial Costs          % of sales         6.0%      24.266    20.523   10.096
Export Taxes             % of sales        10.0%      40.444    34.205   16.827
Total Coots             '00 Ob                       334 198   281.849  138.084
Grose Margin            '000 Db                       70.242    60.403   30.185
Expatriate Monagement Costs                           59.434    45.829   39.162
Project contrlbution'    '000 Db                     (59.4341  (458291 (39.162)
Grss Revenue^           '000 Db                       70,242    60.403   30.1851
Net Revenue (50%)        '000 Db                      35.121    30.202   15.093
* See Annex lii. Toble 3.
*- Excluding profits on Input supply sales, on transport of produce other than cocoa, *tc.



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND 81ALUHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT OF UBA BUDO
Cahflow USA BUDO                                       1992      1993    1994      1996    1996    1997    199S    1999    2000    2006    2010    2016
Totd Am.                                              2.000     2,000    2,000     2,000    2,000    2,000    2.000    2,000   2,000    2,000    2.000    2,000
Of whch mnatn cocoa                                   1,208     1,286    1.653     1.864    2,000   200      2.000    2,000    2,000    2,uOO    2,000    2,000
Producou (ton)                                          478       660      690      868    1,033    1.204    1,39S    1.636    1.600    1,600    1.600    1,600
P&Ge 4$ FOS)                                          1.104     1,142    1.181     1,220    1.259    1.298    1.337    1,376    1.416    1,416    1.415   1.41S
Exchango Rate (Dbl4)                                    260       260     260       260      260      260      260      260     260      260      260      260
Tunover l'000 Db)                                   137.20S   166.276  211.871   276,330 338142 406.32  484,930 649162  688,640  S88,640  SW,    S88.640
Pmoduok Coat
Labor                  Dblnd              360       28,174    30,913  37.579    45,659  60,994  S4.072  67.510  60.030   61,200   61,200   61.200  61,200
Inputs                 Dban              9,932      11,998    12,773   15.424    18.414   19.864   19,864   19,864   19,864   19.864   19,864   19,864   19.864
Trnapoen               Obtton           10.600       5,019     6,880    7.245    9.114   10,847   12.642   14,648   16.118  16,800   16.800   16,800   16,800
Prvoc*nn               Dbfton           13,440       6,424     7.526    9,274    11.666   13.884   16.182   18.749   20,630  21.604  21.604  21.604  21.604
Ovesead                % of Sasl            12      16.486    19,963  26,426    33.040  40,677  48,769   68,192   66,899  70,637   70.637   70,637   70,637
Malbukthg              % of Sale.          2.6       3.430     4,167    6,297     6.893   8.464   10,158   12.123   13,729   14.716   14,716  14,716   14,716
Other Cot.             % of coats           6        3,676     4.060    6.012    6,239    7,231    8,084    9,064    9,814   10,236   10,236   10,236   10,236
FiancIal Chagsaa       % of sake            6        8,232     9,977   12,712    16.620   20,289   24,380   29.096   32,960   36,318   36,318   3S.318  36,318
Equipmannt Rene"wa     '000 Db                      20.944    20,944   20,944    20.944   20.944  20,944   20,9-4   20,944   20,944   20,944  20,944  20.944
EaPoi Taisa             % of s               10      13.721    16,628   21.187    27,633  33,814  40,633  48,493   54.916   68.864  68.864  68,84   68,864
Totd Pduceon Cost       '000Db                      117.982   1321B10 ,t60       196,011  2268Y6 266.717  288.672  314       330,    330.    33083 330.083
Ofes Moron              '000 Db                      19,223    33,466   61,773    79,319  111,246  160,609  194.258 234,2W8  258.57  268,667 268,667 2S8,667
brsstmut Cos              m000 Db
Mint. Inrtwnnc Ann      000 Db                      81,228    70.046   46,640    16,766
Eq*dmnt & MseeW        '000 Db                     149,226    31,468
Total Imstmt Coats      '   Db                      230.4S4   101.04   4664       16.766
Ebqzet  Mnageist        '000 Db                      62,000    39,000   26,000    13,000   13.000   13.000   13,000   13,000   13,000
Cahfiow 1               '000 Db                    1263.231) 1107,039) 119,867)   49,662   98,246  137.609  183,268  221.268  246.567  268,6S7  268,667 268,667
Cahddow 2               '000 Db                   11.663,231) 1107,039) (19,867)   49,662   98,246  137,609  183,268  221.289  246,.67 268.557 268.557  268,657
rAdb  pnim  _wasu  f
MRM % (ecabiow 1)                                     27.21
FIR S6 (chflow 21                                      9.06                                                                                                             t-.
FIMR % ltalow 2 exdudg eXpOlt taxes)                  11.41                                                                                                             m X



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRiVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLOER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME STATEMIENT OF BELA VISTA
Cashflow BELA VISTA                                  1992      1993    1994      1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2006    2010    2015
Area (Hal                                           1,736     1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000    1,000    1,000    1.000    1.000
Prductlon ITon)                                       700      672      609       646     711      711     711      711     711      711     711      711
PM  fItTon FOB)                                     1,104    1.142    1,181     1.220    1,259   1.298    1.337    1,376    1.416   1,415   1,416   1,416
Exchange Rate (DbIUS$)                                260      260      260       260     260      260     260      260     260      200     260      260
Tumover 1'000 Db)                                 2C0.928  169.912  187.076  204.99t 232.739  2398 7            2t4.367  26.7   26.7  261.677  2
Production Cost
Labor                 DbInd              360      40,707    26.501   27,167   27,833  28,998   28.998  28.998  28,998   28.998   28.998   28.998  28.998
Inputs                DbTha             9,932     17.232     9,932    9,932    9.932    9.932    9.932    9,932   9.932    9,932   9,932    9,932    9,932
Tmansport              DbJton          10,500      7,350    6,009    6,397    6,786   7,466   7.466    7.466   7,466    7.466    7.466   7.466   7,466
Processlng            Dbtion           13.440      9.408     7,691   8.188    8,686   9,656   9,656   9,666   9.66    9,666   9,656   9,666   9,556
Ovebsaed              % of .xl.           12      24,111   20,389  22.449    24.599   27,929  28.794  29,66B   30,624  31,389  31,389   31,389  31,389
Maikedt                % Of Oa            2.6      6.023    4,248    4.677    S.126    6,818   6,999   6.179    6,359   0.5,    6.S39    6.539    6,639
Other Cost            % of costs           6       6,192     3,738   3,941     4,148   4,486   4.537   4.589   4,642   4,694   4,694   4,694   4.694
FlnancIa Chargs       % of sa*             6      12.t66   10,196   11.226   12,299   13.964   14,397  14.829   15.262   15,696   16.S66   15,696   15,696
Eqtipnunt Renewal     'OAO Ob                     14.960    14,960   14,960    14.960   14.960  14.960   14,960  14.960   14,960  14.960  14,960  14,960
Exprt Taxes           % of maa            10      20.093    16.991   18,708    20,499  23,274   23,996  24,716  2S,437  26.158  26,168   26,158   26,168
0"
Total Production Cost s     Db                    160,132   1 120                       46 382  48,633  160.    163.13S  1S. 386          166.36  6,38
Gam  Marin              000 Db                     44,796   49,259  69,434   70,126  86,367  91,316  96,274  101.232  108.,11  106.191  106,191  106,191
feant Coss              *000 Db
bnnatm Are             000 Db                     19.440    6.480   8,280
Eqlpment & Mated al    000 Db                    130.000
Totl Investnent Cost   '000WDb                    1           6.480   8.280
Expatat nmanamnt        '000 Db                    42,617   36.668  29.367   23.190   17,189  17,319  17,449  17,579  17.708   17,708   17.708   4.708
Cahflow I               OW00 Db                   1147.260)    7,220  21,786   46.936  69.166  73,996  78,82S  83,664  88.462  80.482  88.482  101.482
Cahllow 2               p000 Db                 (1.067,260)    7,220  21.786   46,936  69.168  73,996  78.825   83,64  88,482  81.482   i8,482 101.482
OnaurAn pAloum b _Insts)
FIRRS6 (cabalw 1)                                      32
FIRR 6 Icmshflow 2)                                     6
FUR % (cashbow 2 aidudkV export tae)                    8                                                                                                           l-'t
00 i
Ox



- 68 -
ANNEX II
Table 9
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLMOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TIME TABLE FOR LAND DISTRIBUTION
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 6     Year 6
COCOA
Cocoa replanted               Ha      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200
Cocoa rehabilitated           Ha      1,560      1,550      1,660      1,550      1,650      1,550
Other cocoa                   He     12.000     12,000     12,000     12.000     12,000    12,000
State *nterprbee                   10,600      7,500      3,500          0          0         0
Distributed in Year 1               1 000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Distributed In Year 2                          3 000      3,000      3.000      3,000      3,000
Distributed In Year 3                                     4.000      4,000      4,000      4,000
Distributed In Year 4                                                4.000      4,000      4,000
Total Distributed (cumulated)         1 000      4 000      8 000     12,00      12,000     12,000
COPRA                         Ha      8,000      8,000      8,000     8,000      8,000      8,000
State enterprises           Ha      7,500      5,000      2,500          0          0         0
Distributed In Year 1                 500        500        500       500        600        600
Distributed In Year 2                          2 500      2,500      2.500      2,600      2,500
Distributed In Year 3                                     2 500      2,500      2,500      2,600
Distributed in Year 4                                                2 500      2,500      2,500
Total Distributed (cumulated)           500                 5.600      8.000      8.000     8 000
OVEALL TOTAL Icunudatedj              1 600      7000      13,500    20.000     20,000     20000



- 69 -
ANNEX II
Table 10
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PRODUCTION OUTPUT
Yoor 1    Year 2  Year 3  Year 4 Year G  Y.at 6  Year 7  Year8  Year 9   Year 10
COCOA
Cocoa on replanted areas  tone    538    650    810   1,038   1,273   1,444   1,636   1,776   1,840    1,840
Cocoa on rehobbitted me"  tons    620    776    930    930    930    930    930    930    930           930
Cocoa on tate nterpd.es   tons  1,716   1,248    624       0       0      0       0      0       0       0
Cocoa on pIvate plot.
Dhtdbuted In Year I      tone    156    183    210    216    220    220    220    220    220          220
Distributed In Year 2    tons           465    549    630    64v    660    660    660    660          660
Oltuibuted In Year 3     tone                   620    732    840    860    880    880    880         880
Distributed In Year 4    tone                          620    732    840    860    880    880         880
Total Cocoa               tons  3.029   3.321   3.743  4 16   4,       4,94  5 18      345  ,410    S,410
COPRA
Copra on etatot nt rpHiee  tonr  1,313    875    438
Copr on odetrtbuted area  tons    126    737   1,587  2,500   3,000   3,200   3,200  3,200   3,200    3,200
Total Copra                ton   1.438   1.612   2 025  2.500   3 000   3 200   3 200   3 200   3.200    3.200
FOOD CROPS
Maize                    tons      0    225   1,050  2,026  3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000    3,000
Bananas                  tons      0    300  2,520  4,860   7,200   7,200   7,200   7,200   7,200    7,200
Root crops               tone      0    600  6,250  10,126  16,000  15,000  16,000  15,000  15,000   15,000
Total Food Crops flncromental)  tons  0   1.125  8.820  17.010 2S.200 265200 2.200  26,200 26S200   26,2Otu



SAG TOME ANM PRINOE
AORICULTURAL PRIVATIZAItO  AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPM    PROJECT
PROJECT NANCHIAL INCREMENTAL BEES. COSt A CASH FLOW
rZI         yen a       Item 3     Year 4     Ve r          6 YeaS       7   lt U      Ver 9    yew 10
COCOA                        Ton           678          73m       t.oot       1,309      t.66t      1.896    2.031     2.121     2MM63      t163
COPRA                        Ton            38          212         62S       1.100      1.600      1,800    1,800     1.a0      t.so0     il.o
FOOD CROPS
maine                      Ton             0          226        1.060      2.026      3,000      3.000    3.000     3.000     3,000      3,000
Iaaa                       Ton             0          300        2520       4.860      7.200      7,200    7.200     7.200     7,200      7,200
Rootcaej                   Ton             0          600        6.2b0     10.126     15,000     16.000   16,000    15,000    1S.000    15.000
Total htct. Food Crop Producton  Ton       0         1,126       8,820     17.010     26,200     25,200   26,200    25,200    25.200    26.200
PIkes
COCOA (FOB)                  Dbikg         287          297         307        317        327        337      348       368        38B       368
COPRA FOBF                  D0kg            48           49          60         SS         69         63       67        70         74        74
FOOD CROPS
Mobs                      0Dbkg           36           36          36         36         36         36       36         36        36        36
Bana                       Dhhtg          60           60          60         60         60         60       60         60        60        60
Root ctopr                 Dbkg           24           24          24         24         24         24       24         24        24        24
C
COCOA                        000 Db     165.909     218,682     307,367    416,215    54S6.12    639,526  705,842   768.630   792,089   792.089
COPRA                        0000b        1,804      10,418      31,17S     60,918     94.848    113,256  120.276   126,828   133,B48   123.848
FOOD CROPS
Me                         000 Ob          0        8,100       37,800     72.900    108,000    108,000  108,000   106.000   108.000    108.000
Banan                      000Db           0        18,000     151.200    291,600    432,000    432,000  432.000   432.000   432.000   432.000
Root crops                 000 Db          0        14,400     126,000    243.000    360,000    360,000  360,000   360.000   380.000    360.000
Toatl Incmnsntd Bonefit    000 Db     167.713     269.599      653.542  1.os3.c33  t6036   1t652.781 1.726.118  1.785468  1t82S.937  1.s2ss37
? -4



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRCULTURAL PFIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMkErT MIOJECT
PROJECT FNANCIAL WNCREMENTAL BENE£TS, COST & CASH FLOW
rsooUCTKoN cosTs WTH PROJECT                     Yew          Yost 2      Year 3      ear4       yoa r      Yoar 6    Y ar7     Year8     YearS    Ye 10
coacoa
Labs                      rMd               1,337,600    1,172.500     952.600    732L600     32S600    732,600  732,500   732.500   732.500   732.600
Pioductoaosto r'Oo Db)
Labor                     DbO/d       360     481,600      422,100     342,900    263,700    263,700    263,700  263,700   263,700   263,700   263,700
bInputs                   Ob/H      7.217      26.726       48.377      77.246    106,114    106,114    106.114  106.114   106,114   106,114   106,114
Tranport                  Db/Ton   t0,500      31.806       34.871      39.302      43,733     48,720     S2,017   54,443    66,123    S6.806      66,860
Ph>oodbg                  DbOTon   13,440      40.710       44.634      60.306      66,978     62,362     66,682   69,686    71,837    72,710      72,710
Marketn coats             % at sals   2.S%     21,736       24.662      28.733      33.028     37,971     41,797   45,060    47,806    49,758      49,758
Maagminat expense         % of sae    12%    104,333       118,329     137,919    168,537    182,263    200,626  216,289   229,467   238.841   238,841
Othwe cos                 % of cots  6.0%      36.340       34.648      33,820      33,0S4     36,067     36,S42   37,765    38,752    39.396    39.396
Equipesnt                 '000 Db              89,012       89,012      89,012     89,012      89,012     89.012   89,012    89.012    89,012    99,012
TOt Coaut                 '000 Db             831.162      816.622     799238    783.16    826199    8S6,389  882069   9011   916.337   S16,337
COPRA
Labor                    amd                   83,500      101,000     118,500    136.000    136,000    136,000  136,000    136,000    136,000    136,000
Production coas; 1'000 Db
Lbor                     Dbf/md       360      30,060       36,360      42.660     48,960      48,960     48.960   48.960    48,960    48,960      48,960
Inputs                   DbOHa      1.015        S08         3,04S       S6.83      8,120       8,120      8.120    8,120      8.120     8.120      8,120
Transport                DbOTon    1.750        2.516        2,821       3,543      4.37S       6,250      6,600    6,600      5,600      5,600     5.600
ProceSSIn                DbOton    4.600        6,469        7,254       9.110      11.250     13,600     14.400   14,400     14.400    14,400     14.400
Muathg cos               % of Gain   2.6%       1,729        1,980       2,527      3,461       4,446      5,034    5.346      6.637      6,949     6.949
M_nam  exp_              % of sad     12%       8.297        9.606      12.128      16,614     21,341     24,161   26,669    27.067    28.554    28,654
Otr coat                 % of cost   6.0%       2.479        3.048       3,777      4.639       6,081      6,314    5,404      5,489      6,579     5.579
Eqipnt                    f005 Db               6,610        6,610       5,610      6,610       6,610      5,610    5,610      5,610      6,610     5.10
Totel Cot                 '000 Ob              67.667       69.624      84.937    103,029    112,308    1117.1    1 19,099    120.872   122,772    122,772
FOOD CROPS
Labor                      ad                   32.250      143,600     279,750    416,000    416,000    416,000  416,000   416,000   416,000    416,000
Productin cost            '000 Db O
Labor                     DbOWd       360      11,610       51.660     100.710    149.760    149.760    149,760  149,760    149,760   149.760    149,760           o z
Inputs and Eqtipnmnt     Dbh/         688       1.031        4.813       9.281      13,760     13,760     13,760   13,760     13.750    13.760     13750
TOtIl Co                   D000 b               12,641       66.473     109991    163  S10 163,510    163& 10 163 10   163.61    163S10  163,S1
TOTAL PRODUClTON COSTS      00Db               90           942.719     994.166   1.049.69S   1.101,017   1.137.91 16466 11,81919   12022,620  1,20,0.6C



SAO TOME AND PRINCWE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCtAL INCREMENTAL BENEFITS, COST & CASH FROW
PRODUCTIONICOST8WITHOUTPROJECT                 Yg1          Y.ar2       Yer 3      Ymmr4      Year6      Yea 6    Yost 7    Year8     Ye r9    Yetr10
Labor                    rrd               1,475.000    1.476,000    1,476,000   1.476.000   1,47S,000  1,47S.000 1,476,000  1,475,000  1,475,000  1,475.000
Plousdton                '000 Db
Labs,                    Dbtnld     360    631,000       631,000     631,000    631,000    531.000    631,000  S31,000   631.000   63'.000   531.000
hp.                      Db/Ha     4,900     72,276       72,27S      72,276     72,275     72,275     72,216   72,275    72,275    72,276    72.275
Tapott                   Ob/Ton   13,126     32,169       33,922      36,989     37,485     39,02i     40,149   41,403    42,322    42.748    42.748
P    _csng               DbtTon   16,800     41,177       43,420      46,066     47.981     49,965    61.391   52,996    64,172    64,718    64.718
makftS cots              % of miss  2.6%    17.688        19,186      21,049     22.648     24,334     26.809   27.414    28,840    29.956    29.956
Me.n.mmt epses           % of miss  12.0%    84.424       92,087     101,036    108,711    116,801    123,882  131,588   138,432   143,790   143,790
Oth. , ost               % of costs  5.0%    38,932       39,694      40,371     41.005     41.670     42,226   42,834    43,352    43,724    43.724
Equbmunt                 '000 Db             75.922       76,922      75,922     76.922     75,922     76.922   75.922    75,922    75,922    76.922
Toti Cost                '000 Ob            893487                   923,706    937,027    960.       962,6    97S.431    B6,314   994,133   994.133
COPRA
Labor          od                            80,000       80,000      80,000     80,000     80,000  S0,000   80,000    80,000    80,000    80.000
Psudutos cos              '000 Db
Lab,                     Dbtnmd     360      28.800       28,800      28,800     28.800     28,800     28,800   28,800    28,800    28,800    28,900
mplut                    DbtHM        0           0           0           0           0          0          0        0         0         0         0
Tsmpot                   DbtTon    2,188      3,063        3,063       3,063      3,063      3,063      3.063    3,063      3,063     3,063     3.063            -4
P cmmmi                  DbrTon    5,626      7,875        7,875       7,876      7,875      7.876      7.876    7.875      7,876     7.875     7,875
mlng cost                % of sake   2.5%     1,684        1,720       1,747,     1,938      2.075      2.202    2,339      2,466     2.603     2.603
Mm.mmn_ t expse          % of oaks  12.0%     8,081        8,256       8,387      9,304      9.969     10,671   11,226    11.837    12.492    12.492
Othearc                  % of costs  6.0%     2,476        2,486       2,494      2,649      2.689      2.626    2,665      2.702     2,742     2.742
Equ4rst                 '030 Db               6,610        F 610       5,610      6,610      5,610      5,610    6.610      5,610     6,610     6,610
Ttid Ccat                '000 Db             6758         67,8        67.976        1       69.970     so,7     !1,577    62,363    63t        63.1
Totd Cost Wthout Prolect                     96 4         966,213     981,68,1    1.01064   1,023.   1.037.009  1048,6   1,0731   1,06.318
bsmoomuti Costs          '000 Db
Pthggi.. Cost            '000 Db             t49,6051     122,4941     12,485     63,630     90,063    113,698  127,670   138,626   14U,302   146.302
h,j*nlm*f es    ~)'940 Db                  1,239.770    1,391,066    780,127    567,628    264,138          0
Tetdi bemonti Costs      '000Db            1,190.166    1,368.62     792,61     621,0S8    364320q    113.698  127.670    13862    14302   146.302
,,_2_,w                  '000 Ob           11,022.4621   1.1098,9631   1139,0701   462.676   1.18.169   1,639,083 19     1.646,932  1.680.6   1.i68.636       ,.X
F-. tzl
'-'-



SAO TOME AND PlUNCIPE
AGRUCULTURAL PiUVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROWECT FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS FROM REVENUE EARNING ENTITlES 11)
1l 2       Yo  3      YarA       YNrA        Ye6 n  6    Yer 7  Year a     Yer      Y.r 10    Yew 16    Yerw2
_m~       Costs
Prduellm Cots      '000 Db        149,606)     122.4941     12,485     63.530     90,063    113.698  127.670   138,626   145,302   146.302   146.302   146.302
hwtntet cosa        '000 Db     1,239,770    1,391,066     780.127    567.528    264,138          0        0          0         0         0          0         0
Tatl              o  '000Db    1,180.166    1,j   662    792612    621.0       364201    113,698  127.670   138,S26   1.3          146,302   14S,       146.302
nrmnrtl Benefits                  167,713      269.699     653,642   1.083.633   1.S40.360   1.652.781 1,726.118  1.786.468  1.626.937  1,826,S37  1.826,937  1.826,37
Caiflow             '000 Db     11.022.462)  11,098.963)   1139,0701   482,675  1t186,169   1.639,083 1,698.449  1.646,932  1.680,636  1,680,636  1,680,635  1,680.636
FlnenW    nI. n t. of Reutn ua         36
(1) Revnue earning tn m: *rmrm nd  pdvatd estate.
- M
C



SAO TOMIE AND PIUNCIPE
AMRICULTUNAL PVATIZATION AND SMLLIOER DEVELOPMENT PROECT
SUMMAtR OF PROJE5,T ECONOMC COtSTS AMD ENEFITS FROM REVENUE EARUNo ENTITIES [I)
Y"rf 1      V    2       VON 3      Yt4A       Yew S       YasS 6    Yew7 Yt      S      ye It    Yaw 10    YVas'6    Yew
_ _o"N  CeF
Pw      owt            '000 Db       149.6061     122.4S41     12.485     63,S30      90.063    113.698  127.670    130,626   146.302    14S.302    14S,302  t46.302
1    _ eat e .st      'ODD b       1,210.700    1,313.100     721,400    522.500    232,600           0        0         0          0         0          0         0
Lam                   aDb         1.161,0S6       ws 1.290.66  73381    S7S.       322.663    113.698  t27,670    138.S26   146,302         02   146.302   146.302
bx"Wwww                               ULnof  167.713  26.9    65S3.642   1.038633   1.640.360   1.662.781 1.726.118  1.786.458  1,862.93  1t82.937  1.92S.37  1.f2S.937
ECONOIC CASHFLOW       'O00 Db       1693.382)   11.021.007)   MO0343)   507.603   1.217.697   1.539,083 1,698,449  1.64,932  1,60,635  1.690,636  1.690.63S  1,680.636
Ece_.~c _Itwad Rat af Retwn 1(S           37
11) eu..me eaadaC aMxdie m: aa.ihalda. mU pivatizad mastte.
cr _,
0- m
m x



775 -                                         ANNEX II
Table 1 
SAO iTOME AND PRINCIPE
s           TWf LrTAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RE 'RN AND SENSITIVrITY ANALYSIS
Switchii Vatues at  12.0%
Appraih:3I.   Switching      Percentage
Stream              Vatu-          Vatue          Change
      .... ........... .             .       .
STOTALIDB       99823103C.*.5    3765923526.5          -62.3%
CTOTCOSTS       37659235?J.5    9982310304.5           165.1%
Net Present VaLue at OCt   12.0% X 6216386778
Internat Rate of Return a 36.8%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 34.0%
Interno% Rates of Returns of Net Streams
STOTALID8    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTOTCOSTS    36.787    40.489    64.183    55.320    33.064    29.301    17.663
UP 10%    33.404    36.787    40.153    50.238    29.989    26.526    15.496
UP 20%    30.561    33.687    36.787    46.030    27.398    24.177    13.817
UP 50%    24.177    26.759    29.301    36.787    21.542    18.834         9.862
DOWN 10%    40.900    45.004    49.114    61.606    36.787    32.648    19.746
DOWN 20%    46.030    56.660    55.320    69.628    41.413    36.787    22.537
DOWN 50%    74.554    82.649    91.062   118.878    66.716    59.080    36.70
STOTAL1DB      LAG 1     LAG 2      LAG 3
CTOTCOSTS    36.787    28.479    23.673    20.434
liP 10%    33.404    26.249    2'.980    19.056
JP 20%    30.561    24.319    20.494    17.835
UP 50%    24.177    19.787    16.921    14.857
DOWN 10%    40.900    31.097    25.629    22.011
DOWN 20%    46.030    34.230    27.926    23.842
DOWN 50%    74.554    49.335    38.415    31.957
LAG 1          -    36.787    28.479    23.673
LAG 2          -         -    36.787    28.479
LAG 3          -         -          -    36.787



Sao TOM AM) FEIC E
AOIU0RtMUL 'IWATATIO  AND S        EALLOLIER DEVN0O1'Er pIEoCr
FRUAL  _ACT OF UK MuurALVEinn OF TH  OoMiru THE UAl               AtO T4E PADLCLTTlUA  SEOin
1002         1003          1394          1006          190           TOTAL
2   Cocoa estats                            He                       1.000         3,000         4.000         4,000                        12,000
3   Cops He                                               SO                       2.,00         2.500         2.50                          8,000
4 NuM eof .ed1 tdncsn                        No                        100         1,500         2,000         1,600          06             6,246
S Es*n,ted bases of EEAs wthout aqolet
6  Monetsy Ioam due to *xces lbo            Db                 294.000,000   294.000,000   294,000.000   294.000.000   20,000.000    1,470,000.000
7  Oew a.ffldey ble                         Db                  78,000,000    78.000,000    78,000.000    78,000.000    78.000,000     390,000,000
a  T.dlame                                                     372.000,000   372.000,000   372,000,000   372.000,000   372,000,000   1t860.000,000
9 !!dmbo lse" of EEAs wIth prlet
10    an.ts, lso" due to excess labot        Db                 246,280.000 172.,670,400   113.870.400    66.070.400    13,977,600   C00,868,800
11  OthdIorksffncy  bse                      Db                  73,125,000    48,750,000    29,250,000     9,760,000     4,875,000     165,750,000
12  Ted knoes                                Db                 318.405.000   221.420,400   143.120,400    64,B20,400    18,852,600     766,618,800
13 3 anetmw sa    du to iduction In losses of FEAs     S3,695.000   150,579,600   228,879,600   307.179,600   363,147,400    1.093,381,200
(0)412)                                                                                                                                                               -
14 Exp netult by Gaveaninet to mduc lo sse
13  VoluMary depa                            Db                  60,544,000   212.453,260
14  8sveanco paymnt                          Db                  33.696,000   168,480,000   224.640.000   168,480,000   106,264.720     701,660,720
16  TOW                                      Db                  84.240.000   3810.933,Z80   224,640,000   168,480,000   106.254,720    964,648,000
16 NET BURDEN BE9NEFIT) ON k.ONSOLDATED NATIONAL BUDGET         30.646.000   230.353,680     14,239.600)  t138.699.600)  1246.892.6801    1128,833.2001
115)-113)
17 F ln of adllond budet expenditure In 1161
18  Revenue aem enilo_lder 1ess              Ob                           0     3,450.200    14.242,700    28,264,460    42,286.200      88,243,660
19  Exftsd finni                             Ob                  60,644,000   212.463,280                                               262.,97.280
20 MET NATUOUAL  tDO1T EWSANO      _OIIE U                       119,899.000)   14.460,200   118,482,300)  1166,964,060) 1280,178.8800    1480.074.030W
1tS)16MID19)
21 CUMULATIVE ET NATIOMA BUDGET FIN. IEGUIREMENTS                119.899.000)   15.448,800)  123.931.100)  1190.805,150)  (480,074.030)
22 CUMULATIVE NET NATIONAL BUDGET FIN. REQUIREMENT8                  176.635)     120.967)      (92,043)     (734,212)    11,846.430)
an US 4 of 991)                                                                                                                                                      M 
Notes: Maeme ka.  due to xcess (bor am osralted at S0% of the peemsnent labor fo, effIdency bNos at 10% of the annunl tunovsr.                                         DX
Redund e nnd Woketaf deptuns am   ated acaexing to pt a     chduen ptea,.de pot. o. H



SAO Vim MO PRIUCIVE
AG3IWNIIWUS   P91VATIEA:Ig. *m  SMALauRNEi  KVELOPNE31 NO.1CC
Table  I. IME  IIItTIE CU3911N1
getalled Cost Table
tols Including Cont ngwicies
Ouanlity                                           IUS Si
UnIt  1992 1993 IS94 19S5 IM 9A lotal    1M          1993       1994      1995       1995      total
.  ...  ... ..::     ..        ::: ...  ...   ...:::  .::::                               .......:::::   ,::
1. IUVSIIIEII 50515
......... ......
i. IE ICAt AS i5151itttt
Ai  *IS13163t101 EL°ER1                 PR      6   12   12    6    -    36   72.974.4 146,403. 1 147.260.6  75, 635.6            -   442. 273.5
TOIt   IECOHICIAN                       It      6   12    6    -           24   60.812.0 122. 002.6  61. 358.6         -          -   244.173.2
Sub-total TEC1 5ICAL ASSISTANCE                                                    133. 786.3 268. 405.6 206. 619.2  75. 635. 6      -   686, 447.0
L titditSl / I(UD 0IS1. SERV.
SIIEF SOCIOLOGISI                       PR      6    8    8    8    -    30   t0.484.6  13,997.0  14.069.7  14,464.1                   53,015.5
ASSI. SOCIOLOCIST                       P4      6   12   12  12   12    S4    3,494.9   6, 998.5   7.034.9   7.232. 1  7.504.7    32, 265.0
tUD SIS121 S1IOU  5PECIl1151            Pll     6   12   12   12   12    54    6,989.7  13,997.0  14.069.7  14. 464.1  15,009.4    64,530.0
ASROlII1SI                              PH      6   12   12   12   12   54    5,242.3  10,497.8  10. 552. 3  10. 848. 1  11.257.0    48. 397.5
SNIEF IOPOCRAPHER                       PR      6   12   12   12   12   54    4. 193.8   8,398.2   8,441.8   6,678.5   9,005.6    38.718.0
OINER 1OVRAVEII£RS                      PH     25   50   50   50   25   200   16.983.5  34.057.2  34.241. 6  35. 183. 9  18.267.7   138.726 8
0RAfTSHEU                               PA      I8   36   36   36   36   162   10,484.6  20.995.6  21,104.6  21.696.2  22.514.0    96.795.0
DIIII OFFICER                           PR      6   12   12   12   12    54    3.494.9   6,998 5   7,034.9   7.232. I   7.504.7    32.265.0
ACC0hIltINC O1fiER                     PN      6   12   12   12   12   54    3,494.9   6.998.5   7,034.9   7.232. 1  7.504.7    32.265 0
tAO LEGISL.SPEC.                        P.      3    6    2    -    -    11    3,494.9   6.998.5   3,345.0             -          -    12,838 3
Sk-Total 54D45fRE 2  1AND DISI. SERV.                                               S8. 358. 1 129.929.9 125.929.4 127,031. 0  98. 567.8   549. 816.2
C. TRAININC
U*ID USE PlANN11NG                      PH      -    3    2    -    -       5           -  15.15. 7  10.606.9          -          -    26.422 6
ORC511Z.01 CADA51RE SERK.               Pll      -    3    2    -    -      5           -  1,815.7  10,606.9                      -    26.422 6
TOPOGRAPHY                              PH      2    4    2    -    -       8    4.424.2   8.879.0   4,466.1           -          -    17. 769.3
INF10119*N11 STSIE145                   PH      -    2    2    2    2       8           - 4,439.5   4.466.1  4 587. 0   4,766. 0    18,258.6
Sb-Total IitI*3tC                                                                  4.424.2  44. 950.0  30. 145.8   4,587.0   4, 766.0    88,873.0
D. EWi00198I
TOPOGRAPIIV AND CADASTRE E4JIPtECNT     ts      2    -    -    -    -       2  :it. 194. 1        -          -         -          -   M, 194. 1
DRA11111G EQIIPNEHI                     tS       I    -    -    -    -      1  27,798.5           -          -         -          -    27,798.5
CIME1R AND ACCESSORIES                  ts       I    -    -    -    -      t   11 119.4                                               11 .119.4
Sub-Total EQUIPHCNT                                                               ISO. 112 0               -         -               -    50, 112.0
E. 1E111ES
NOTORCYttES                             NO      8    -    -    -    -       6   22.238.8          -          -         -          -    22.238.8
JEEPS                                   3O      2    -    -    -    -       2   44,477.6          -          -         -          -    44,477.6
PICKUPS                                 3O      3    -    -    -    -       3   66.716.4                     -         -          -    66.716.4
Sb-rlot: VEHICLES                                                                  133.432.9         -          -          -         -   133,432.9
Total IUCSIHRCUT COSTS                                                               490, 113.5 443. 285. 6 364,694. 5 207. 253. 7 103. 333.8 1.608, 681.
II. RE61U113E3  cOsts
A  lOPOGRAPHICAt CI1A11 SIAff I 8 I       PH      48   96   96   96   96   432    6,989.7  13.997.0  14. 069. 7  14.464. 1  15,009.4    64.530.0
I. ORIVEiS I 5 I                          PH      30   60   60   60   60   270    4.368.6   8.748. 1  8,793.6   9.040. 1  9.380.8    40,331.3
C. VEHICLE SPARE PARTS                   Vm       30   60   60   60   60   270    3,362.3   6.744. 1  6.783.0   6,968 4   7.237.9    31.095.8
D. HIOlORtTCtE SPUE PARIS                 TN       6   12   12   12   12    54       672.5   1.348.8   1,356.6   1.393.7   1,447.6        6.219.2
E. 013ER WEHICltE OPE3ATIU                VI      30   60   60   60   60   270   10,484.6  20,995.6  2:, 104.6  21,696.2  22.514.0    96,795.0
F. 1'4tREII46t OffiCE EXPENSiS           1        b   12  :2  :2   12    54    0 066. 1  20. 192. 0  20,309.3  20.863 6  21. 671. 7    93, 102. 7
total  ECttRIIEI  COSIS                                                               35,943.8  72.025.7  72,416.9  74. 4.5. 1 77, 261.4   332,073.9
total                                                                                 526,057.3 515.311.3 437.  :.4 281:679.6 :80,595.2 1.940, 754.9
Octobr 16  1291  14:47



SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMAILtOtDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
table 2 SOCIAL COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Table
(DOBRA '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                                         (US $1
Unit  1992   1993    1994    1995   1996  Total            1992        1993          1994         1995         1996       Total
1. INVESTMENT COST'
A. REDUNDANCY PAYMENTS
VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE       NO      300   1.261          -        -     -   1.561  240,860 1 1,013,686 5                                           1.254,546 6
SEVERANCE PAYMENT         NO      300   1.501   2.000   I.500   946   6.246  160.462 2   803,318.4 1.076.655 3   830. 125 7 543 267 3 3.413.829 0
Sub-Total REOUNDANCY PAYMENTS                                                        401. 322 4 1,817, 004 9 1, 0'S. 655 3   830, 125 7 543. 267.3 4.668.375 7
8  FOOD AID                   NO      200   1,000   1.250   1,000   666   4,116  102.965 7   516 490 5   649,420 8   533.660 7 369.236 8 2. 171.774 5                                                00
C  RELOCATION EXPENSES        NO       20      100      125      100    67      412    8.895 5    44,621.2    56. 105 5    46. 104 6  32.091 1   167. 87 9
lotal INVESIFMNT COSTS                                                                   513. 183 6 2.378.116 6 1.782. 181.6 1,409.891 0 944.595 2 7.027.968 0
Total                                                                                     513. 183 6 2, 378116 6 S t782. 181 6 1,409.891 0 944, 595 2 7.027.968 0
- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   .... .  - - - - - - - - - - - . ..   . .  .  .... . . ..  ..    -   -   -- - -   - - - . . .
Novetefr 24. 1991  16.40
m x
(D X
tvH
H



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
A5RICttIUNRAL PRIVATIZATION AND StALttHDLDER DEVEtOPMENT PROJECI
Table 3. SMALEtHOtDER AVO COCOA PRDUCTION SUPPORT
Detailed Cost Table
(DODRA '0001
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                                    (US SI
Unit   1992    1993    1994    1995   1996  total           1992         1993        1994       1955    1996   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
L NtUCLEUS tUAAGEMENT AND MARKETING CORPORATION
1. EXPATRIAIE StAFF
t;NAGER                                              PM          6      12       12        6    -        36     51.826 7   103.964 4 104,569.I 53,711.1         -   314,071 3
ACCOUNTANT                                           Pt          S      12        6       3    -        27      39, 632.2    79. 502.2  39. 982.3  20. 536. 8    -   179, 653.3
MECHANIC                                             PMt         4       2        1        -    -         7     32518.?7   16 308 1   83201 S             -    -    57. 028 4
Stb-lotal EXPATRIATE SIAFF                                                                                        123.977.7   199.,74 7 152. 752 9  74. 241.6    -   550. 752.9
2. EQUIPMENT
VEHICtES                                             NO          3       -        -        -    -        3      6. 71.4 t-                                      -    6. 71  4
Sit-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                                                6, 716.4                                             67-    871 4
Sit-Total ttJUCLEUS MANAGEMENT AND MtARKETING CORPORATION                                                            190,694 I   199.774 7 152.752 9  74,247.6            617.469 3
B. MARKETING EQUIPMENT AND INPUT SUPPtY
REPAIR Of DRIERS                                        NO          '       -        -        -    -         4    224, 155. 3           -          -         -    -   224, ISS. 3
TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT I TRUCtS , TRACTORS I               NO         10        -       -        -    -        10    500. 373 3            -                              500, 373 3
ROAD AND BUILDING REPAIRS                               iS          -        I       -        -              I             -   224,802.3           -         -    -   224,802.3
INPUIS ICHENICALSI                                      "At     I 500   3.000   4.000   3,500    -   12.000        50,037 3   100.397 7 134,653 1 121.024 6    -   406, 112 7
FARM TOOLS . EOPI . SUBS                                LS          I        1       I             -         4     55. 597. 0    55, 776.5  56, 105. 5  57. 630 7    -   225. 109 8
INITIAL NORSING CAPITA LS                                           -       -                -    -          -    174,743 5   291.604 9                                466.348 4
Stb-Total ttARtIETING EQUIPMENT AND INPUT SUPPtY                                                                   1.004,906 6   672.581 4 190,758 6 178,655 3    - 2,046.901.9
C. MAINTENACE OF ItOtATURE AREAS
BEtA VISTA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT                         NO          I        -                -    -         1    454. 884 8            -          -                   454.884 8
USA 8UDO PROCESSING EQUIPIENI                           NO          -        I       -             -                       -  456.353.3                            -   456. 353 3
UISA E;UDO CONTRACT LABOR                               LS          -        -       -        -    -         -    130.723.3   112.869.7  73.923 6  27,918 2            345,434.8
U8A BUDD INPUIS                                         LS          -        -       -        -                   1869 049 5   146.249 4  95,852 8  36.170 2    -   447.321 8
USA 80UD0 EQUIPMENT                                     iS                   -       -        -    -         -    108.674 4    94.016.9  61,619.5  23,251.7    -   287 562 5
BUILDING REPAIRS                                        nO          -                                        I             -    84. 300 9                     -         84,300 9
Sib-Total MtAINTENANCE OF IWIATIURE AREAS                                                                            863. 332 0   893. 790.   231. 396 0  87 340 1    - 2,075,858 2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                2.058,632 7 1.7886146.3 574, 907.5 340,243.0    - 4.740.229 4
Total                                                                                                                  2,058.932. 7 t;766, 148 63 574.907. 5 340.243 0    - 4.740. 229 4
Nover 24. 1991  16:40
tH
t-t



SAO  loK  AND PRINCIPE
ACRIIWLtURAt PRIVAII4 AIION AJID SLAEttOIDER DEVEtODPIIEit PROJIECT
fable 4  INSTITUtIINAt  SUPPDRI CONENT
'Detailed Cost lable
(08A I o001
Totals Including Contingencies
oint.lty                                            (US Sl
Unit  I992 1993  4994 1995 (996 total    1992         1993       (994       (995       1996      Total
1. tNEStitEit costs
A  OPEPARIHENT Of STUDIES AND P[AnNltG I uAP
t. SKINGIx(E tING
ASRICUL tDRAt EC"INtSI                                 PHI      -     2    2    2    -       6              26f637.0  26 796 3  27.522 1           *      o955.s 5
ACCOONINNT I U4P I                                     PH       6    12  12   12   12    54   39.Mm7.8  79.911.1  80.338 9  82,966.4  85.788 1   368.472 3
tOCAt SIAFF TRAIlING                                   PR       -     2    2    2    2       B           -  10,651 3  10.713.2  ((.005.5  (I.431.9    43.801 8
TNICtES                                                NO       V     -    -I     -          I   22.238 8          -          -          -         -    22.238 8
OfFICE EQUIPNEN                                        LS.                                   -   78.947 8                -         -               -    78.947 8
Suk-Total STRENGTKtENliG                                                                           141.004 4 1(7.199.3 117,898.4  21. 094.;  97 220 0   594 4;6 2
2. STaDIES
LAND USE PLAN I UPDATFI I                              IS       -     1    -    -            1          - 166.601.s           -          -         -    68.601.8
AUDIT                                                  ts       *      I    V    1    2      5           -  38.845 7  39.077 3  40,136.5  83.405 t1   20(.465.1
PRIVATIZATION COASUEtTAIS                              Is       6     6    2    -    .    14   92.908.2  93.229 6  31 262 4              -         -  27. 400 I
Stb-1oh.I SIUDIES                                                                                   92,908.2 300. 677.0  70.340.3  40. 136.5  83.405 1  587.467 0
Stb-Votel DRPANRTIERT  Of STUDIES AND PtANNING t UAP                                                  233.912.6 47. 876.3 (88.238.7 16l 230 6 180,625.0  . 181. 83 2
S. LIVIESTOC
I(HOR    Df BREEDINtG CATTLE                              No           125    -               125          - (88.245 7           -               -         88.245 7
VRIER9NA" EQP.X8 NAIERIAI                                 9R       -      I    I    I           3              27. 8s.3  28.052 7  28.815 4                 84.756 4
FENCING A"D SHELTER                                        o       -    7 25        -i-                          . I ss. 3       -          --              11 .ss. 3
VENICLES                                                  NO       -      I    -    -          -  I         - 22.310.6                                -    22.310 6
Sib-Total tlVESIOt                                                                                             - 249. 599.9  28.052.7  28. 85 4               306.468 0
C. 18IliitlG SUPPORIt BtC                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
FARR PANGE8ENT COURSES                                    No             2    2    2            8 a            44. 960. 5  45 220 2  46. 456. 1 48. 252 8   184.889. 6
COCOA CURInG tCOURSES                                     No             4    4    4    4    is                22.480 2  22.610 1 23.228 1  24.126 4    92.444 8
ASICUITEET   AND LIVESTOc  PiDlUCIION COURSES             No       -     4    4    4    4    (6                22.480 2  22.610. 1 23. 228. t  24.126 4    92,444.8
S±k-Total TRAINING SUttPPORI  VC                                                                               - 89.920 9  90.440.3  92,9(22  96.505 7   369.779 2
D  IUItNORItNG SOCIAt OItENStINE
cotSUEL (NS                                               PR             2                      2              22582.0           -          -         -    22.582 0
TRAINIIG                                                  PR       -     2       -              2          -  I1. (55 3                                     I.-  i (55 3
SURVEY                                                    ts       -      I    -    -           I           -  45.525.9                     -         -    45.525.9
Sub-7ota( NIIORAING SOCIAt DINT'lS(ON                                                                          . 79.263 2                                      79. 263 2
total INVEStMENT COStS                                                                                   233,9(2.6 836. 660.3 306 731. 8 282. 958.2 277 (30?7 1.937.393.6
it. RECO1(AEU1 COSVS
A. DEPANRPENV f0R SETDfES A PtANNIEGIUAP
I VEHICEt SPARE PIRIS                                    IS.       .     .    .     .           .  2,668.7   2,677.3   2.693. 1   2.766. 3   2.873 8       3. 679 1
2. OlItER VEnIEtE OPENAVtLU                              AN       6    (2   (2   (2   12   54    2. 09.9   4,199 1  4.220 9   4,339.2   4.502 8            9. 359. 0
3. INCEMETAt OtFICE EIPEIIsES                            (I       6    12   12   (2   (2   S4    5. 008.4   0. 04a.8   0. (07. 9         382. 8   0. 786. 3    46. 334.2
Sub-folal OEPARtHENr FOR ST0 DIES 8 PtANNING/UAP                                                       9.714.0  16.925.:  17.021.9  (7.488.4  (8. 62.9    79,372.2
A  NtIDRING SOCIAL OINENSION
____. .  _..   _.  -  -----------------.   _    _ 
VtHICIE OPERAI4IN                                        Is       -     I          --          I          -  (.664 2            -         -          - . 1(654.2
INCREENYAt OFFICE EXPENSES                               ts       -     1    -    -    -       I          -  11.217.8           -         -          -    1(2(7.8
Stb-Dotal NOEl TOtdId  StCIAL DIHNSIOK                                                                           22.882.0                               -    22,782.0
total RESElI COS1I                                                                                         9, 774. 0  39 807. I  17 021.9  17. 4U 4  18. 1(6  9    02. 254. 2
243. 68.6 876467.9  323. 753. 7 300,446. 295,M293 6 2.039.647.9
IS I 1. (99I  14: 48



SAD TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIYATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Sumary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                    Totals including Contingencies
(IOBR1 '0001                                                      IUS $ ' 0001
1992         1993         1994         1995        1996       Total        1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT                            439,972.8   275,291 4    37,034.6    24.055. 0             -   776,353.9  1, 517 1   777 7    89 7    52. 1          -  2.436.5
B. VEHICLES                              64. 492. 6     7.898 0            -             -          -    72, 390 5    222 4    22 3         -        -        -    244. 7
C. CIVIL  OmS                             2.579.7   125.218.4    23. 171.6    21, 300.3  16. 430.6   188, 700. 7        8.9   353 7    56 1    46 1    32 1    496 9
D. TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE                 133.065.9   282.45? 3   258, 434 4   178.795 3  94. 390.2   947.138.2    458 8   797 9   625 7   387.0   184 4  2.453 8
E. STUDIES AND TRAINING                    I 283 0   153,010.4    70,365.8    68,672.2 100.407 6   393,739 t            4 4   432 2   170 4   148 6   196 1    951.8
F. REDUNDANCY COMPENSATION              146. 243.5   826. 057. 4   712. 869.4   630.069 3 467, 202. 1 2, 782. 441.8    504 3 2. 333 5 1,726 1 1, 363.8   912 5  8,840.2
G. PRODUCTION I%VESTMENT                168. 243 7   250.242 0   148,901.0   112. 147.6                 879.534.2    580. 2   706 9   360 5   242. 7          -  1,890 3
H. PROdECT PREPARATION FACILITY         435,006.0             -            -             -          -   435,006.0  1.500 0         -        -        -           1.500 0
- - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -  C O
total INVESTMENT COSTS                   1, 390, 887. 3 1.920. 169.9 1.250,776.9 1,035.039.8 678,430.5 6,275.304.4  4,798.2 5,424.2 3,028.5 24240.3 1.325. 1 16,5814 3
II. RECURRENT CDSTS
A. LABOR COSTS                           3.293 9      8.051 8       9.442 6    10.858 9  12,487.8    44, 135.0        11.4    22 7    22.9    23 5    24.4    104 9
B. VEHICtE OPERATION COSTS               5.592 6    16 860 7    14.933 4    17. 169 7  19.751 0    74,307.3           19 3    47.6    36 2    37.2    38 6    178.8
C. OFFICE EXPENSES                       4.371 6    14.676 3    12.562 3    14.435 9  16,618 5    62,664.6            15. 1    41.5    30 4    31.2    32 5    150.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        13.258.2    39.588.8    36.938.2    42,464 5  48,857.2   181. 106.9          45.7   111.8    89 4    91.9    95 4    434.3
total PROJECT COSTS                        1.404. 145.4 1. 959, 758. 7 1, 287. 715. 1 1,077.504.3 727,287.8 6, 456, 411. 3  4,841.9 S, 536.0 3, 118.0 2,332. 3 1,420.5 17,248.6
Nowtsr 24, 1991  16:40
'I-I|
N 
tn 



SAC TORE AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALIF OtDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                       Totals Including Contingencies
(DOBRA Mi l i ion)                                    i'US $ 'C000
1992    1993    1994    1995   1996  Total         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Total
:::::: = ::::: :::::===      == ::::- :::.    -:::   Z::::::    ::::::: =-z- :: :: :
A. LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT                                  152.6   182 4   180 5   130 1  92.5   738.1    526 I  515 3   437.1   281 7   180 6  1.940 8
8. SOCIAL COMtPONENT                                            148.8   841.9   736 0   651 4 483.8 2.861 7    513.2 2.378 1 1.782 2 1.409 9   944 6  7.028 0
C. SNALLtHOLDER AND COCOA PRODUCTION SUPPORT COMPONENT         597.!   625.2   237 4   157 2         - 1,616.9  2.058 9 1.766 1  574 9   340 2             -  4.740 2
D. INSTITUTIONAt SUPPORT COMPONENT                              70 7   310. 3   133. 7   138.8 151.2   804. 6    243 7   876 5   323 8   300 4   295 3  2.039 6
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                435.0                                 -   435.0  1.500 0                  .        -       -  1.500 0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             1.404. 1 1.959.8 1.287 7 1.077.5 727 3 6.456.4  4.841 9 5,536.0 3.118 0 2,332.3 1.420 5 17.248 6
Novembr 24. 1991  I6- 40
00
l")
1.ti
1-3
m   ,4



.
SAO TOME MND PRINCIPE
AGRICbLTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMAILHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROdEC1
Financing Plan By Disbursement Category
(US S '0001
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT    WORLD FOOD
ASSSICIATION       PROGRAM      PRIVATE SECTOR   GOVERNMENT           Total                       local
-- -- -- - -- -- --- -   -------  - -- --  lExcI  Dut ies S
Amount    X    Amount   X         Amount          Amount   X      Amunt    %    For. Exch   Taxesl    Taxes
A. EQUIPMENT   VEHICtES .AND SPORE PARTS                      718 2  96.8          -    -        24.0   3 2          -           742 2   4 3         658 7       83 5
B. EQUIPMENT   VEHICLES   AND SPARE PARIS FOR NMMC            791.2 100.0           -    -          -      -               -     791 2   4 6         673.6      117.7
C. EQUIP.. VEHICLES, & SPARE PARTS FOR ESTATES              1. 198. 8 100.0         -    -          -      -         -    -   1. 198 8   7 0       1,073 3    125 5
D. CIVIL WORKS                                                496.9 100.0                -          -      -                     496 9   2 9         397 1      99.8
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     2.398.9  97.8           -    -          -      -     55 0  2 2   2.453 8  14 2         1.749.8    649 0         55 0
F  TRAINING AND STUDIES                                       859.3  90 3           -    -       92.4   9.7        0.0  00       9S1 8   5 5         770.6    181 2
G. REDUNDANCY COMPENSATION                                         -      -  2.171 8 31.8                  -  4.668 4 682   6.840 2  39 7          1.944 7  4.554 0        341 4
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                                      1. 078.5 100 0          -               -      -                   1.078 5   6 3         965 7    112 8
I  NORKING CAPITAL                                            466 3 100.0                                                        466. 3   2 7                  466 3
J. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                320 8  44 0           -    -      195 4  21 3    252 6 34 7        728 8   4 2          112 0    499 7       117 1
K. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                             1.5000  100.0                                                      1.500 0   8 7       1.300 0    200 0
Total Oisbursement                                            9.829 1  57 0  2.171 8 12 6         271 9   1.6  4.975 9 288  17.2486 1000             9. 645 6  7.089 6       513 4
~~~~~~~.    ....... ... ..           .    .  .    .  .    .   .   . .  .   .   ..   .   .   .    . .    ..   ..   .   .   .   .   . -             .  .   .   ..   . . .    .
Novemtber 24. 1991  16.40
_l H
H.I-
1-



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHDLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
financing Plan by Suwrmary Accounts
IUS $ '0001,
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT      WORLD fODD
ASSSOCIATION       PROGRAM       PRIVATE SECTOR   GOVERNMENT              Total                        Local
-------   -----  ------------  --------------  ----------  ------E, cl.               Du.ties   a
Amount    %    Amount   I           Amount   %    Armunt               Amount    I    for  Ex~ch   Taxesl         Taxes
I. INVESItMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT                            2.412 6  99. 0                 -       24 0    1. 0                    2, 435.5  14 1       2. 146 7     289 8-
B. VEHICLES                                244. 7 100 0                --  -                      -               244 7   1 4         219 1       25 6
C. CIVIL WORKS                             495 9 100.0           -                                  .            496.9   2 9          397 1       99 8 
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 2,398 9  f'7.8           --                             55 0    2.2   2,453.8  14.2         1.749 8      649.0       55.0
E. STUDIES AND TRAINING                    859.3  90.3           -             92.4   9 7        0.0   0 0       951 8    5 5         770.6      tAT 2 
f. REOUNDANCY COMPENSATION                      -         2.1T71.8 31.8           -      -  4.668 4  68 2   6.840 2  39 7           1.944 7  4.554 0        341 4
G. PRODUCTION INVESTMENT                 1.700 3  89.9           -     -      155.4   8.2       34.5    1.8   1,890.3   IT 0          965 7    890. T         34.5 
H. PROdECT PREPARATION FACIITYY          1.500 0 IOv.0           -     -                                       1,500.0   8 7        1.300 0      200 0           -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      9.612 7  57 2  2, 17 1.8 12. 9       271 .9    1 6  4, 75 7.9  28 3   f6.814 3  97 5       9, 493. 8  6.889 6       430 9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. [ABOR COSTS                                .      -                           .104 9100 0                     104 9   05 6                    98 4        6 5
B. VEHICLE OPERATION COSTS                114 9  64.3                                          639a  35 7        178.8    1 0         39 9       75 0       83 9
C. OFFICE EXPENSES                        101 4  67 3                                   -      49 2  32.7       150.7   0 9          112.0       26.5        12 2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         216 3  49 8                 -                  .    218 0  50 2        434 3   2 5          151.8    200.0         82 5
Total Disbursement                           9. 829 I  57 0  2.171 8 12.6   ..271.9  ._16  4.975_9  28_8  17.248 6 100 0                 9.645 6  7.089 6        5T3 4
Novembter 24. 1991 16 40
lb~Ez
"a, 



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIJATIZATION AND SNAttHO9DER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Coaonents
(US $ '0001
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT    WORLD FOOD
ASSSOCIATION      PROGRAM      PRIVATE SECTOR   GOVERNMENT           Total                      Local
--------- --- - - - -------- ---  IExc1.  Dut  es  A
hmount    S      amount   I       Aount   I    ANount   I        Amount    S    For. Exch.  Taxes)    Taxes
A. LAND OISTRIBUTION COMPONENT                               1,709.2  88.t          -    -           -     -    231.5 11.9  1t940.8  11.3          t,086.3    740.0       114.5
8. SOCIAL COMPONENT                                             187.8   2.7  2. 171.8 30.9           -     -  4. 668.4 66.4   7.028.0  40.7        2.112. 9  4.573 7      341 4
C. SFAULHOLDER AND COCOA PRODUCT IOP! SuePORT COMPONENT   4. ,550.2  96. 0          -    -       155.4   3. 3     34.5  0. 7   4. 740.2  27 5      3. 377. 7  1. 328 0     34.5
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONfiT                           1.881.7  92.3          -    -       116.4   5.7      41 5  2.0   2,030. 6  11. 8      1.768. 7    247 9       23 0
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILtIl                              1. SOO. 0 100.0        -    -           -     -         -    -   1, 500. 0   8. 7     1, 300.0    200. 0         -
Total Disbursement                                             9,829.1 57.0  2,171.8 12.6         271.9   1.6  4,975.9 28 8  17,248.6 100 0          9,645 6  7,089.6       513 4
Novefter 24, 1991  16: 40
'-



- 86 -
ANNEX III
Page 9(b)
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALtHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
(US $ 000)
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  W4ORLD FOOD PRIVATE
ASSSOCIATION   PROGRAM   SECTOR  GOVERNMENT  Total
Amount      Amount   Amount    4mount   Amount
1.   Foreign                      7.599.6    1.944.7    89.9          11.4  9,645 6
It.  Local (tECl. Taxes)          2.229.5       227.0   181.9    4.451. 1 7.089.6
111. Taxes                               -           -        -      513.4    513.4
Total Project                      9.829 1    2. 171 8   271.9    4.975 9 17.248.6
Novemer 24. 1991  16:40



- 87 -                                     ANNEX III
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                   Table 10
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
IDA FY and        Dibbursemont       Cumulative       Profile
Semester         by Somester    DOsbureement       (%i
199211               1,474            1,474           15
1993 1               1.179            2.654           27
II              1.278            3,932           40
1994 1               1,179            5,111           62
II              1,081            6,192           63
1995 I                885             7,077           72
II                688            7,765           79
1996 1                590             8,355           85
it                491            8,846           90
1997 1                393             9.239           94
11                296            9,534           97
1998 I                 197            9,731           99
11                               9,829          100
Total                    9,829
DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
to -
9-
a
40
.3
2-
I   _              .I    .     . I   U      I    .1'    I     .i
92       93          94           95          96           97          98
FISCAL YEAR



- 88 -
ANNEX IV
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE          Page 1 of 7
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLMENTATION SCHEDULE
I.
"; 1                                     0          f"w
_ _ _ _ _    _   _ _ _              _    _
NtSg' i N          _"n        m I                   "i
..._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .. _ _ _  _ _ ___    _
, llif  | {lill^^  1111l 11s  [lli}  t 1X"I  AN
~~~~~~N            +iN<<i   f fi  ii  d  



- 89 -
ANNEX IV
P-age Z of 7
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.    IDA supervision will be closely linked to the project implementation schedule. IDA
supervision will include regular supervision and monitoring of key events through supervision
and review missior.s. The Borrower will participate in supervision through progress reports
and participation in supervision and review missions.
Regular Sup)ervision
2.    Regular supervision will include review of progress reports, procurement actions.
correspondence and implementation assistance to the Borrower. Regular supervision will take
up 66 staff weeks: 15 staff weeks per year during the first two years and 12 staff weeks per
year during the three following years. Apart from 40 staff weeks by the task manager,
regular supervision will include: 12 staff weeks by a procurement officer, 10 staff weeks by a
financial analyst, 3 staff weeks by a land tenure specialist and 1 staff week by a legal advisor.
The procurement specialist will assist the Borrower with the implementation of IDA
procurement procedures and requirements. Although the UAP is familiar with the
procedures, this additional assistance is necessary for ICB procurement as the national
language of STP (Portuguese) is not an official language of IDA and as communications
between STP and the outside world are difficult and cumbersome. The financial analyst will
review the financial management and reporting by UAP, the management of the revolving
fund anci auditing. The land tenure specialist will follow up on land distribution problems.
The legal advisor will be called upon to comment on estate lease contracts and labor
legislation issues.
Supervision and Review Missions
3.    The schedule of supervision missions presented below includes one visit to Sao Tome
to monitor satisfactory progress towards the conditions of effectiveness and disbursement
dealing with the up-front actions such as the recruitment of the NMMC and the conversion of
the management contracts into lease contracts. During the first two years, six project
supervision missions will take place. These missions include the Project Launching Workshop
and the First Year Implementation Reviews. Starting from the Mid-Term Review onwards,
there will be only two supervision missions per year. The supervision missions and reviews
will take a total 52 staff weeks: 23 staff weeks of the task manager, 2 staff weeks of a
procurement specialist, 13 staff weeks of a financial analyst, 4 staff weeks of an agronomist,
5 staff weeks of a land tenure specialist and 5 staff weeks of an economist. The missions are
detailed in the Tentative Project Supervision Schedule below.
4.    The project supervision missions will focus on the physical implementation, the
management performance and the compliance with legal covenants. The key areas to
supervise are: (i) implementation of the land distribution scheme (quality of the technical
work, progress on the sociological issues, delivery of usufruct contracts, etc.) (ii)
availability of agricultural inputs, the marketing of cocoa, performance of the NMMC and the
leased estates financed by the project; (iii) performance of the technical assistance and
consultants; (iv) progress of the institutional strengthening and training; (v) procurement
progress and compliance with procurement procedures; (vi) financial management; (vii) SOE



_ 90 _                                ANNEX3IV 
Page 3 of7
documentation; (viii) input supply and working capital revolving fund; and (ix) the reduction
of WFP food subsidies.
5.    The Project Launching Workshop will take place as soor. as the conditions for
effectiveness are about to be met. It will be organized by the AF4AG division and be
attended by the key staff of the project. The workshop will focus on: (i) general and specific
procurement guidelines such as: the ICB rules, LCB rules, domestic preference, international
shopping, guidelines for recruitment of consultants; (ii) disbursement methods for project
funds such as direct payments to suppliers, Statements of Expenses and documentation to be
kept and to be forwarded to IDA; (iii) management of the Special Account and the control of
the revolving fund; (iv) audit requirements; (v) project supervision and reviews; (vi)
communications with IDA; (vii) implementation of the project; and (viii) other subjects of
particular interest to the Borrower and the GCAT.
6.    The First Year Implementation Review will be carried out jointly by the Government
and IDA in order to examine the overall and detailed performance of the project and, if
necessary, make joint recommendations and take steps to improve the project performance. It
will cover the same subjects as the supervision missions, but will enter into much more detail
on the physical project implementation aspects: (i) land distributio. and problems which are
likely to arise in this particular component; (ii) performance of the leased estates; and (iii) the
institutional strengthening and training. The IDA team will include a specialist in agricultural
production and management.
7.    The Mid-Term Review will evaluate in-depth the physical and financial
implementation of the project, and in particular its development impact. To this extent the
Government will prepare a mid-term report on the project to iacilitate this review. If
necessary, the MTR may introduce major design changes into the project. Terms of
Reference for the MTR will be drawn up during project implementation at least three months
before the time of the review and will be agreed upon with the Government.
8.    A Proiect Completion Report (PCR) summarizing the achievements of the project and
its impact vis-a-vis itS objectives will be submitted by the Government to IDA not later than
six months after the completion of the project. The PCR will be carried out by the
Government and IDA and will cover a full ex-post evaluation of the project. In particular it
will assess the impact of the project on: (i) total agricultural production and yields of tree
crops, food and other crops (diversification); (ii) social impact (through the monitoring of
social dimensions project element); and (iii) private sector involvement in input supply, crop
marketing and agricultural diversification. It will also evaluate the impact of the reduction of
food subsidies on food crop production incentives and the results of the training components
on agricultural planning and management.
Participation by Borrower
9.    The Borrower will participate in the supervision through four-monthly progress
reports by GCAT and UAP to be sent to IDA. The Borrower will assist all supe-rvision
missions by providing information on the project and organizing wrap-up meetings. The
Borrower will participate in all reviews: Project Launching Workshop, First Year
Implementation Review, Mid-Term Review and Project Completion Review.



- 91 -
ANN'2'X Il'
Page 4 of 7
10.   Tentative Eroject Field Supervision Schedule.
Dates Activity                           Expected Skill requirements  Staff weeks
2/92   Supervision before Effectiveness  Task Manager (Ag. Econ)    2
Procurement Officer        2
4/92   Project Launching Workshop        Task Manager               2
Financial Analyst          1
Agronomist                 1
8/92   Supervision Mission              Task Manager                2
Agronomist                 1
12/92  Supervision Mission              Laiid Tenure Specialist     2
Financial Analyst          1
4/93   First Year Implementation Review  Task Manager               2
Land Tenure Specialist     1
Financial Analyst          2
8/93   Supervision Mission              Task Manager                2
11/93  Supervision Mission              Task Manager                1
Financial Analyst          1
3/94   Supervision Mission               Task Manager               1
Financial Analyst          1
9/94   Supervision Mission               Task Manager               2
1/95   Mid-Term Review                  Task Manager                2
Agronomist                 1
Land Tenure Specialist     1
Financial Analyst          1
7/95   Supervisior, Mission              Task Manager               2
1/96   Supervision Mission              Task Manager                1
Agronomist/Land Tenure     1
Financial Analyst          2
7/96   Supervision Mission               Task Manager               2
1/97   Supervision Mission              Task Manager                2
Financial Analyst          2
5/98  Project Completion Review          Economist                  5
Financial Analyst          2
Agronomist                 1



- 92 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEEWLOPMENT PROJECr
MONITORING INDICATORS
Key Activities                    Responsible         Calendar Year
Agency
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
Land Distributiorn
TA Land Distribution Expert        GCAT                  x      x      x     x
TA Topographical Expert            GCAT                  x      x      x
Number of ha distributed           GCAT                      1,500 5,500 6,500  6,500
Organization of Cadastre Services  MSEE                         x      x
Training (person-months)          GCAT/MSEE              2     12      8     2      2
Social Comonent
. Retirement of Workers (No)       MEAF               1,000
. Voluntary Departures (No)        MEAF               1,000   561
. Redeployment of Workers (No)     MEAF                300  1,500 2,000  1,500   946
. Distribution of Food-Aid (T)    NMMC/WFP              140   712   890   712   472
. Reduction of Food Subsidies (%)  MEAF                 23    10    10    20    20
Remaining subsidy (%)                                  60    50    40    20        0
SMaliholder Support Component
Establishment of NMMC           GCAT/NMMC               x
. Procurement of inputs           NMMC/Priv.Sect.        x      x     x      x      x
. Marketing of cocoa              NMMC/Others            x      x     x      x      x
. Introduction of livestock (No)   DAG                        125
. Training courses (No)           CATAP/BVPTC                  10    10    10    10
. Co-financing support from CCCE
to Poto                           DAG                   x
. Impl. of Research Component      DAG                          x     x      x      x
. Evaluation of FAC/IFAD
Agricultural Extension Project  DAG/Donors              x
. Impl. of Extension Project      DAG/Donore                    x     x      x      x



- 93                                ANNEX IV
- 93~                                  ?ffgU- 6oof 7
Key Activities                     Responsible          Calendar Year
Agency
1992   1993  1994   1995   1996
Privatization of nuclei
. Privatization Consultants        DAG/MEAF               6       6      2
. Conversion of Management
Contracts to Lease Contracts     DAG/MEAF                2       2
, Implementation of New Lease
Contracts                         DAG/MEAF               1       2
. Sale and leasing of nuclei       DAG/MEAF                       2      4     2
Maintenance of Immature Cocoa
. Construction Cocoa Dryer
Beia Vista                  UAP/Bela Vista         x
. Construction Cocoa Dryer
Uba Budo                    UAP/Uba Budo                  x
. Maintenance immature areas (ha)    Uba Budo            850   550    250    150
Institutional Strengthening
Departnent of Studies and Planning
, Recruitmaent and Services of
Ag. Economist (person-months)     DAG                  2      2       2
Training (person-months)          DAG                  2       2      2      2
Foresty Servic
Finalization of co-financing
agreement with GTZ               DAG/MEAF/Donor                x
. Establishment of Forestry Code    DAG                         x
. Overseas training (pers.-mths)    DAG                  6      12     6
. Training of forest guards         DAG                                12
I Implementation of forestry code   DAG                                x       x
Monitoring Social Dimension
i  Survey (No)                      MEAF                                1
Ld Use PIa
Land Use Plan Review                MSEE                         x
Land Use Plan Implementation        MSEE                         x       x      x



-  94  -                                   ANNEX  IV
Page 7 of 7
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
1991        1992           1993           1994           1995           1996
Ousrters                              3    4   1  2  3  4. 1  2  3  4           2  3  4   1  2  3  4  .t  2  3
I Recruitment NMMC
Preparation bitd documents            x   x
Launching bids                             x
Evaluation bids                                   x
Contmact signature
Effectivea  of contract
2 Recruitment Technical Assistance
OCAT 
Effectiveness                              x
UAP 
Effectivenoss                                     x
3 Pruremet of inputs
Prepaation bid documnts                                          x.                            X
Launching bids                                  :                    x                     x       X
Evaluation bids                                                      X                             x
Contract signature                                                       X                                .
import of inputs                                                                           X X
4 Procurement of cocoa dryers
Bel' Vista
Prprtion bid documents                x
Launching bids                        X
Evaluaion bids                        x
Contract signature
Ubs Budo
Preparatin bid documents
Launching bids
Evaluation bids
Contract signaturex
5 Procuement consutants land use ola;
Prepration bid documents                        ..... .
Launching bids                                           X.'
Evaluation bids                                              x
Contct signature                                                 X -"
Effectivene of contract                                          x



AO TONI AND PRINCIPE
ORGANIZATION OF THE DIREeCTORATE OF AgRItCULTUR
Fill                                   tDIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE
|KHSEE                         
CADASTRE
SERVICES                                                                         PRIVATE
GCAT    <                                            NUCLEUS
A                                                                           UNITS
-------------------------------------------------      NMM    C
- Land Distribution                                         NEDIO PORTE
>-Land Titling
>   Land Titling                            ~ ~~~~~~~- Purchase of products
- Proceesing & mJr,ting
_    _                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Supply of inputs  
-       Distribution of food-aid ct
SMALLHOLDERS AND MEDIUM SIZED                        - other
PLANTATION MANAGERS
MESQUITA          POTO             FORESTRY          LIVESTOCK           BELA VISTA/CATAP
EXTENSION  <   > RESEARCH          SERVICE           DEPARTMENT          TRAINING CENTERS
UNIT
PWabecL-db
Octber 15, 1991



sAO TOME AND PRINCIP6
SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR THE PRIVATI2ATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL 86CtR
LAND
DISTRIBUTION                             MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
COMMISSION
DIRECTORATE OP AGRICULTURE
PRO1ECT        DEPARTMENT         LIVESTOCK           MESQUITA       POTO RES                 RSTRY
GCAT         MANAGRMENT     OF STUDIES         DEPARTMENT           PROJECT           STATI                   ICE
UNIT (UAP)     & PLANNING
GOVERNMENT                        LEASED
|NHC   -------ESTATES                                   ESTATES
PRIVATE                     LEASED
NUCLEUS             MERCHANTS                     NUCLEUS
SMALLHOLDERS AND MEDIUM-SIZED PLANTATIONS
PWubimk:db
October 15, 1991



- 97 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
THE NUCLEUS MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING COPPORATION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
A.    Objectives
1.    The STP Gover..n.ent intends to sell or lease a large number of its State Agricultural
Enterprises (EEAs) to the private sector in the form of smallholdings and medium-sized enterprises.
The privatization process will take five years. There will be a transitional period during which the
Government will continue to manage the nonprivatized processing facilities (fermentation and drying)
through a private management firm. The Government is looking for such a firm to manage the
processing facilities and marketing operations until these facilities are fully privatized.
2.    Out of a total of 54,800 ha (of which 22,000 ha is under cocoa), represented by 15 EEAs
which produce around 3,500 tons of cocoa and 2,000 tons of copra a year, approximately 1,200 ha was
replanted over the period 1986-91, and 2,300 ha has been rehabilitated by enterprises under
management contract, with financing from the World Bank, the CCCE and the African Development
Bank. The Government intends to convert these management contracts into lease agreements (or
industrial leases). Other plantations will be distributed/sold to small and medium-sized private farmers.
The processing units (nuclei) will be gradually sold or leased to the private sector.
3.    To finance this management contract, the Government has applied to the International
Development Association (World Bank) for a credit to cover: (i) the cost of rehabilitating certain
processing units ($225,000); (ii) the purchase of rolling stock ($500,000); (iii) a revolving fund to
finance inputs ($630,000) and purchases of production (cocoa, copra) from private planters ($480,000);
(iv) the purchase of light vehicles, and the fee to be paid to a management firm, up to $600,000, over a
period of three years.
B.    Functions of the Management Firm
4.    The Management Firm will have the following functions: (a) management of the nuclei and
rolling stock of a number of plantations; (b) the purchase of cocoa or copra (in wet or dry form) from
the planters and the related processing and export operations; (c) the import and sale to planters of
agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals, seed and light farm equipment; (d) other commercial
activities such as the sale of staples (food provided by the WFP) and of foodcrop production;
(e) administrative activities such as the payment, out of WFP counterpart funds, of the wages of health
and educatioa personnel employed on certain clearly identified plantations. These functions are
described in greater detail below.



- 98 -
ANNEX VII
?age 2 of 4
1. Management of Processing Facilities
5.    To ensure p,rocessing of *te production, the Management Firm will select and rehabilitate four
processing, fermentation and drying units, which will be the nuclzi for the purchase and processing of
production. Selection of the sites for rehabilitaticn will be based on economic criteria. The project has
earmarked a maximum of $225,000 to finance this rehabilitation. The Management Firm will handle
the management and maintenance of those centers and will finance their operating costs.
6.    The Government will make the rolling stock existing in the centers available to the Management
Firm. The project will finance the purchase of tractors, trailers and trucks up to a maximum of
$500,000. The Management Firm will finance operating, maintenance, insurance and personnel costs.
Equipment will be purchased through international bidding, in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (June 1985).'
2. Purchase, processing and export of products
7.    The Management Firm will purchase the cocoa, CG,i'2 and other products from the farmers at
market price. The Management Firm may purchase these products ex-farm, at designated collection
points, or delivered to the centers. The purchase price will vary depending on place of delivery and
transportation costs. At the time of project appraisal the purchase price was estimated at 50-60% of the
FOB price for cocoa and 3c-40% for copra. However, since the Management Firm will be responsible
for keeping its accounts in balance, it will set a purchase price that reflects the market price and
transportation costs. Since the Management Firm will have no purchase monopoly, it will need to be
competitive.
8.    To finance these purchases, the project will make a revolving fund in the amouift of $480,000
available to the Management Firm (see para 17). This fund will be used by the Management Firm
exclusively for the purchase of cocoa and copra from private farmers. The balance of the funds needed
to make up the purchase price or to finance other commercial activities will be contributed by the
Management Firm or else borrowed from another source of financing (commercial banks, purchasers).
The Management Firm will pay interest into the revolving fund at a rate equal to that charged by the
STP banking system during the period for which these funds are being used.
9.    The Management Firm will be responsible for processing the cocoa and copra and for quality
control. It will ensure that the products are suitably packaged, and will sell or export products in
accordance with existing procedures and at market prices, after first consulting at least three
international purchasers. It will also pay the export taxes.
10.   The proceeds of the sales will serve to reimburse the revolving fund and repay any bank loans,
and to pay wages and operating costs, including the costs of packaging materials and spare parts. To
facilitate the process of importing the necessary inputs, the Management Firm may keep 30% of its
turnover in foreign exchange.
1/    The procedures and a specimen invitation to tender will be made
available.



- 99 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
3. Imports and sales of agricultural inputs
11.   The Management Firm will import and sell to the farmers inputs such as ferti!izer, chemicals,
seed and tools. The project will make available to the Management Firm a maximum of $630,000 to
import these goods, which will be purchased in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement (see note 1). In principle, sales of inputs will be in cash, at the CIF price plus costs of
transportation, handling, storage, etc., with a 15% markup for the Management Firm. The
Management Firm may also sell inputs on credit (seasonal credit). However, it will remain responsible
for recovery of the credit.
12.   The Management Firm will reimburse the revolving fund as and when the inputs are passed on
to the farmers. The Project Management Unit (PMU) will supervise withdrawals against the line of
credit by the Management Firm, and may restrict these to keep pace with incoming recovery payments.
4. Other commercial activities
13.   The Management Fi:m may be invited to distribute food products provided by the World Food
Program (WFP) to farmers during the first year of their establishment. To do this, it will receive a
commission on the value of the food to be distributed. This commission will cover the costs of
physical distribution of the food and a markup to cover management costs. The exact level of the
commission will be negotiated between the Management Firm and the WFP. The total value of food
distributed is estimated at $500,000 a year.
14.   The Management Firm may also be asked to sell WFP food on the non-privatized plantations.
For this service, it will receive a commission equal to 15% of receipts.
15.   The Management Firm may also, at its own risk, and in the absence of any objection fiom the
Government, undertake other commercial activities.
5. Administrative Activities
16.   The Management Firm may be asked to pay the wages of certain groups of social sector
personnel employed on certain plantations (teachers, nurses, day-care workers, etc.). The funding for
such wage payments will come from WFP food sales (para. 14). The Management Firm will receive a
commission equivalent to 10% of the amounts paid. This represents a service that the Management
Firm is to perform -- there will be no actual employer-employee relationship between the Management
Firm and such social sector personnel.
17.   However, if the Management Firm is required to perform noncommercial tasks for the account
of the Government, a separate contract setting forth the relevant terms will have to be drawn up.
C.    Management responsibilities
18.   The Management Firm will be responsible for the management of assets received from the
Goverrnment and of the revolving fund. For every IDA-financed purchase of equipment and capital
goods, the Management Firm will follow the bidding procedures set forth in the IDA Credit Agreement
(paras. 6 and 11). The Management Firm will be responsible for the maintenance of IDA-financed
equipment received from the Government.



- 100 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
19.   It will be responsible for makling withdrawals from the revolving fund for purchases of inputs
($630,000) and of production ($480,000), and for credit recoveries from the farmers. 'rhe revolving
fund will remain Government property, but will bh exclusively used and managed by the Management
Firm. The latter will sell the inputs purchased with the project funds and will reimburse the revolving
fund with. the equivalent of the purchases made o_ .,4 the project funds or (later) out of the revolving
fund. Amounts withdrawn for the purchase of products will be repaid into the revolving fund after
acceptance of the season's sales. Management of the revolving fund by the Management Firm will be
supervised by the PMU (page 5.2).
20.   The Management Firm will be responsible for ensuring the financial equilibrium of the
marketing centers and operations. Depreciation of the new investments will be calculated on a linear
basis over a five-year period. The operating results before taxation will be shared between the
Management Firm and the Government along the lines proposed at the time of invitation to tender.
Amounts representing depreciation of Government-owned eqaipment and assets will be paid annually
into the revolving fund, after the accounts have been audited and no later than six months after the
close of the financial year. To this end, the Management Firm will maintain a clear and
comprehensible accounting system.
21.   The producer prices of cocoa and copra will not be imposed by the Government. However,
preliminary calculations have shown that cocoa marketing is profitable when the production is
purchased at prices ranging from 40 to 60% of the FOB price, depending on the location. The farmers
will be free to select their buyers. The Management Firm will not have a purchase monopoly.
D.    Establishment of a local subsidiap;
22.   The Management Firm will, at the outset, establish a local-law subsidiary in Sao Tome. The
subsidiary will recruit local personnel and will export cocoa or the other products. The Management
Firm will, however, remain financially responsible for the subsidiary.
E.    Supervision
23.   Upon signature of the contract, the Management Firm will submit a three-year work plan based
on its original bid. This work plan will be reviewed annually (in June) under the joint auspices of the
Government and IDA.
24.   Implementation of the work plan and of the actions financed by the IDA credit will be
supervised by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Ministry of Economic and Financial Affairs.
The PMU will supervise both the revolving fund and withdrawals against it. To facilitate such
supervision, the Management Firm will submit a comprehensible statement of the revolving fund every
two weeks, including credit to farmers and stocks of products. The accounts of the Management Firm
and its subsidiary will be subject to annual audit by licensed auditors, financed out of the project funds.
F.    Transfer of centers
25.   Since the objective of the project is privatization of the EEAs, the centers may be leased or sold
during the period of the Management Firm's contract. However, this will not reduce the fixed
payments to be made to the Management Firm. The Management Firm may also lease or purchase the
centers, either directly or through its subsidiary.



- 101 -                             ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 12
SAO T¶OME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TE!CHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND LOCAL CONSULTI NG
A. IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: Schedule of Activities
Proiect Year:                             1                    4      5QTta
AcVtYA:                                          'person-months)
Land Distribution Specialist               6     12    12       6      -      36
Topography Technicien                      6     12      6             -      24
Pr;vatization Specialists                  6      6      2      -      -      14
Manager (NMMC)                             6     12    12       6      -      36
Accountant (NMMC)                          6     12      6      3      -      27
Mechanic (NMMC)                            -      4      2      1      -       7
Agricultural Economist                     -      2      2      2      -       6
Monitoring Social Dimension Expert                2     _      _2
Total                34    60    41       17      0     152
B. LOCAL CONSULTING and TECHNICAL A$SISTANCE: Schedule of Activities
Uroiect Yeart                             1      2             4             Ifi
Activiq                                          (person-months)
Accountant/Procurement Off. (ITAP)         6      12    12      12    12    54
Sociologists (GCAT)                       12      20    20    20       12    84
Land Distribution Specialist               6      12    12      12    12    54
Agronomist                                 6      12    12    12    12    54
Topographer/Technicien                    31      62    62      62     37    254
Land Legislation Specialist                3      6              -      -     11
Draft Persons                             18      36      j    36      36    162
Administrative Officer                     6      12    12    12       12    54
Accountant                                 6      12    i2    12    12    54
Total                94     184   jQ      178    145   781
Studies
Land Use Plan                              -      1      -      -      -       1
Monitoring Surveys                         -      1      -      -      -       1
Audits                                     -      1      1      1      2       5



- 102 -                         ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN
1.    The project will provide three kinds of training: (i) in-service training by technical
assistants; (ii) local and overseas on-the-job training by technical assistants, consultants and
specialized institutions; and (iii) farm management training by the CATAP and Bela Vista
Training Centers.
2.    In-service training of nationals will take place while performing their normal duties.
The technical assistants (the Land Distribution Specialist, the Chief Topographer, the
Procurement Officer/Accountant, the Forest Management Expert and the Agricultural
Economist) will train their local counterparts in task performance. The overall objective is
that local staff would tak-e over from expatriate specialists six months before the expatriate's
contract expires.
3.    On-the-iob traininr will be given in two ways: (i) in Sao Tome, by organizing training
sessions to local staff given by the technical assistants and by visiting consultants; overseas,
by specialized institutions. The project provides funds for overseas training in land use
planning (5 person-months), organization of cadastral services (5 person-months), advanced
topography (8 person-mo. ",s), information .ystems (8 person-months). The objective is to
tain the staff of DAG and MSEE to a level enabling them to: implement the land use plan;
update the cadastral services; and plan agricultural operations and manage the forests.
Depending on ccst, overseas training may be replaced by consultants providing training in Sao
Tome for larger groups of interested people. This would in particularly be the case for the
training of forest guards.
4.    Farm management training will be organized by the CATAP and the Bela Vista
Training Centers. The centers will organize courses in farm management (organization,
marketing, accounting), agriculture and livestock production (technical training), and cocoa
curing (marketing, fermentation, drying, bagging) for individual farmers, employees of
medium-sized farms and technicians responsible for cocoa curing and marketing. The project
would finance the teachers and foreign consultants; the training centers would contribute with
supplies, classrooms and dormitories; and the trainees would contribute 25% of the costs
through own contributions or through sponsoring agencies or enterprises. The project would
finance 8 courses in farm management, 16 courses in production techniques and 16 short
courses in cocoa curing and marketing. CATAP and Bela Vista Training Centers will be fully
responsible to organize the courses, including to analyze training needs, to recruit training
staff and to collect training fees.



- 103 -                        ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
LAND DISTRIBUTION SPECIALIST
TERMS OF REFERENC
Introduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe intends to divide at least 20,000 ha of
cocoa and copra estate land into private plots and to distribute these plots to farmers. The
leasing of the land will be carried out over a period of 5 years. In order to finance the land
distribution, the Government has requested from IDA a credit to cover the costs of the
topographical surveys, the assessment and delineation of the plots to be distributed, the
sociological surveys accompanying the land distribution, the lease of the plots and the
provisional titling. Moreover the Government intends to establish a cocoa sector and farmer
support system, including the hiring of a private management corporation (NMMC) to
purchase cocoa from farmers and to manage the nucleus processing units until privatization.
2.    The overall coordination of the land distribution will be done by the GCAT, a
Department of the Directorate-General of Agriculture. It will be strengthened with technical
assistance and will be supported by UAP, a Project Management Unit responsible for
procurement, disbursement and accounting. The GCAT will implement all technical aspects
of the land distribution. It will: (i) ensure the implementation of the land distribution
procedures and regulations; (ii) carry out topographical land surveys, including delineation of
plots, and land evaluations; (iii) collect initial sociological data on potential settlers; (iv)
prepare land attribution files for decision by the Land Distribution Commission; (vi) assist
with the settling-in of the beneficiaries and organize, through the nucleus, the distribution of
the WFP food aid and other support to the new settlers; (vii) deliver the provisional land
tides; (viii) assist with the revision of the already distributed land.
3.    The GCAT will work in close cooperation with the Ministry of Social Equipment and
Enviromnent. The GCAT will provide all necessary information to the MSEE which is in
charge of the cadastre services. It will, on behalf of the MSEE, deliver the lease titles to
those beneficiaries who have fidfilled the requirements. To be able to do this, it will also
liaise closely with the Directorate of Finance in charge of collecting the lease payments.
4.    The GCAT will also co-ordinate the other project components through UAP, which
will supervise the activities carried out by the NMMC with prcject funds, control the use of
these funds and supervise the project execution in the cocoa estates Uba Budo and Bela Vista.
The technical and financial execution of these components will remain the responsibility of the
entities concerned.
5.    The technical assistant, project manager, of whom the terms of reference follow
hereafter, will assist the GCAT to implement the project.



- 104. -                             ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 12
Terms of reference
6.    The Land Distribution Specialist (LDS) will assist the Director of the GCAT to plan,
organize, monitor and control the land distribution program as described in the above
paragraphs.
7.    In particular he will assist the Director to: (i) recruit suitable local consultants to
execute the works, including the selection, the contracting and the follow-up on their
performance; (ii) plan and coordinate the topographical and sociological tasks; (iii) supervise
the land assessments and the division into viable plots; (iv) supervise the implementation of
the land distribution procedures; (v) orgarPze the leasing of the land, and (vi) organize the
assistance to the settlers.
8.    The LDS will supervise and control all project procurement and disbursements of IDA
funds carried out by UAP according to the procedures of the Credit Agreement between IDA
and the Government of STP.
9.    The LDS will supervise, through UAP, the financial management and the use by the
Nucleus Management and Marketing Corporation of the revolving fund.
10.   The LDS will, with the help of UAP, assist the other Departments of the Directorate-
General of Agriculture to organize the institutional development components of the project
such as planning, livestock development and training. The responsibility for implementing the
components will, however, remain with the departments concerned.
11.   The LDS will further train the GCAT and UAP in project management. For this
purpose, the LDS will allocate 10 percent of his time for formal training on practical issues of
project management. Moreover, after the first project year, he will delegate more and more
of his tasks to staff members of the GCAT and take up a more supervising and monitoring
role with the objective that, after three years, the GCAT is sufficiently trained to manage the
project with little or no technical assistance.
12.   The LDS will address to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance brief quarterly
progress reports on the evolution of the project, flag the most important problems and
kw       constraints and send a copy to IDA for information. At the end of his three year mission, the
*       LDS will make a final report with recommendations for future actions.
Profile of the candidate:
The Land Distribution Specialist will have an educational background in agriculture or
business. He will have at least 10 years of professional experience of which at least five in a
similar environment. Management experience with agricultural projects, preferably financed
by foreigz: donors, is a necessity. He will have some notions of business accounting. He will
speak and wilte Portuguese as well as French or English.



- 105 -                             ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
TOPOGRAPHICAL TECHNICIAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Intr-oduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe intends to divide at least 20,000 ha of
cocoa and copra estate land into private plots and to distribute these plots to farmers.
A team of local topographers will be recruited to carry out the topographical and cadastre
works involved. An expatriate topographer will be recruited by the Government to organize
the works and to train the local topographers in the execution of this major assignment. He
will report to the Director of GCAT and produce brief quarterly reports on his activities.
The topographer will have a degree in topography, experience in land mapping for at least 5
years and experience in Africa. He will speak fluent Portuguese.
Terms of Reference
2.    During two years, the topographer will be in charge of all topographical and land
assessment works of the G'AT and will train local counterparts to take over this
responsibility six months before the end of his assignment.
3.    The topographer will carry out an inventory of the topographical equipment available
at the GCAT, the MSEE and in Sao Tome in general. He will evaluate the need for hiring
and purchasing additional equipment and he will assist the GCAT in acquiring this equipment.
4.    He will identify suitable local topographers, draft persons and support staff to be
recruited by GCAT as short term consultants, train them in particular aspects of land
assessment which are appropriate to the land distribution assignment. If insufficient
topographers would be available in Sao Tome, he will assist the GCAT in the recruitment of
topographers from the African mainland.
5.    He will lead the land assessment and mapping activities in the field, supervise the
works carried out by the contracted topographers including the draft work. He will liaise
closely with the sociologists, agronomists and land distribution specialists involved in the land
distribution scheme.
6.    He will assist the MSEE in organizing the cadastre services, identify suitable training
possibilities abroad and organize some specific training in Sao Tome, if necessary with the
assistance of expatriate specialists to be invited to train in Sao Tome.
7.    As a secondary task, he will assist the consulting team, in charge of the review of the
Land Use Plan, with delineating forest reserves and identifying land suitable for agriculture.



- 106 -                             ANNEX VIII
Page 6 ot 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
ACCOUNTANT/PROCUREMENT OFFICER
OF THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (UAP)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe intends to lease or to sell a large part of
the publicly-owned cocoa estates (EEAs) and their nucleus processing units to the private
sector as small holdings or medium-sized plantations. The GCAT, a Department of the
Directorate General of Agriculture (DGA) at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance,
will be in charge of the land distribution. Moreover, the Government intends to establish a
cocoa sector and farmer support system that includes: (i) hiring a private management
corporation (NMMC) to supply inputs and to purchase cocoa from farmers and to manage the
nucleus processing units until privatization; and (ii) maintaining immature cocoa areas at the
Uba Budo estate and the construction of cocoa dryers at the Bela Vista and Uba Budo estates.
The project will also support the DGA in planning, livestock development and training.
2.    The overall coordination of the project will be done by the GCAT, a department of
the DGA. It will be strengthened with technical assistance and will be supported by a Project
Management Unit (UAP) within DGA that is responsible for procurement, disbursement and
accounting.
3.    The GCAT will also coordinate the other project components through UAP, which
will supervise the activities carried out by the NMMC with project funds, control the
utilization of these funds and supervise the project execution in the cocoa estates Uba Budo
and Bela Vista. The technical execution of these components will remain the responsibility of
the entities concerned.
4.    To strengthen UAP, the project will finance the services of an accountant/procurement
officer of whom the terms of reference follow.
Terms of Rrenc
5.    The accountant/procurement officer will assist the UAP with the administration and
accounting of the implementation of the Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder
Development Project and other projects managed by UAP.
6.    In particular, the accountant/procurement officer will ensure that adequate records of
the project expenditure are kept in order to allow smooth project supervision, monitoring and
control by the Government, IDA and other project financing agencies as well as audits on
preject expenditure.



- 107 -                               ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 12
7.    The accountant/procurement officer will ensure that the project expenditure, in
particular on the Special Account, is in accordance with the IDA credit agreement and he will
ensure that the correct IDA procurement and disbursement procedures are implemented. He
will respect the particular and aggregate procurement thresholds. He will assist the technical
staff with the preparation of bidding documents, provide advice during evaluation of bids and
assist with the establishment of purchase and service contracts.
8.    The accountant/procurement officer will organize the financial documentation of the
project and report quarterly on the financial implementation of the project.
9.    The accountant/procurement officer will be in charge of the inspection of the financial
position of the project revolving fund that is managed by the NMMC. In particular, during
the cocoa buying season, he will carry out weekly inspections of the cocoa stock levels, the
financial flows and the use of project funds for the intended and agreed-upon objectives.
10.   Apart from these operational tasks, he will train the staff of the UAP during 10
percent of his time in: (i) project management, (ii) project accounting, and (iii) procurement
and disbursement procedures.
Profile of the Candidate
11.   The candidate will have an accounting degree. He will have at least four years of
experience in project or business management and be familiar with project management
procedures with respect to donor funding. He will speak Portuguese and French or English.
;1



- 108 -                         ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST-PLANNER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (Directorate-General of Agriculture) of
Sao Tome and Principe intends to reorganize and to strengthen its Department for Studies an,'
Planning (DSP) in order to improve its studies and planning output. The Ministry will recruit
an agricultural economist-planner in order to re-organize the Department, launch specific
training programs for the staff and monitor output quality of the Department. The
agricultural economist will be a senior expert with experience in agricultural planning and
training in Africa. He will speak and write fluent Portuguese. His assignment will consist of
two person-months per year during three years.
Terms of Reference
2.     The Agricultural Economist (AE) will analyze the technical capacities of the staff of
the DSP and design a specific training program for each of the staff members. This training
may consist of on-the-job training, specific assignments within the framework of the existing
duties and overseas training. To achieve this objective, the AE will identify possibilities for
local and overseas training and organize their realization.
3.    The AE will organize the DSP in such it way that it can cope with the existing
worldoad, including specific studies and policy advice to the Minister of Economic Affairs.
To achieve this objective, he may propose the recruitment of consultants financed by other
donors, the replacement of existing and the recruitment of better qualified staff. He will
design a work program for the DSP staff and propose a monitoring and evaluation system for
its implementation. This work program will be discussed and agreed upon with the MEAF.
4.    During an initial mission of four weeks, the AE will analyze the role of the DSP and
its staff and will recommend an action program. Thereafter, the AE will carry out three
technical assistance follow-up visits of two weeks per year during three years. At the end of
each mission, he will present a brief report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance
on the progress and quality of the activities of the DSP and on its training program.



- 109 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
FOREST AND NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT EXPERT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe is embarking with a land distribution
program which will modify the management of land and natural resources. Land which was
previously state owned, planted with tree crops and forest, will be privatized and may be
cultivated with annual crops. State natural forest reserves will be created. An existing Land
Use Plan will be reviewed in order to take account of the new land tenure laws.
Forestry exploitation was previously very limited, partly because of the inefficiency of the
publicly-owned agricultural estates. Although an official ban on cutting of cocoa trees will be
introduced, private ownership of land will introduce new methods of land resources
management. Sao Tome and Principe has a fragile ecology, mainly through its irregular
topography. Hence the conservation of forest land is important.
2.    A forest inventory and a wood supply and demand study, carried out by a Swedish
consulting firm in 1990, has indicated the necessity of the production of fast growing
fuelwood in order to meet growing demand of domestic fuelwood. Recent devaluations and
increases of energy prices has also increased the incentives to substitute imported domestic
energy for fuelwood.
3.    The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (Directorate-General of Agriculture
and Fisheries) has created a forestry service to start a forest management program. It has
sent four staff members of the Directorate to Portugal to receive a six-month training in forest
management. It will now recruit an international expert in forest management to organize the
forest management service, to propose legislation and control measures to protect the forests
as well as to implement the forest component of the Land Use Plan.
Terms of Reference
4.    The expert in forest management will review the Forest Inventory study, the Wood
Supply and Demand study, the revised Land Use Plan, existing legislation on land
management. He will analyze the proposed forestry code and the proposals for the creation
of natural reserves. He will identify the main constraints for the conservation of forests as
well as potential sources of forest destruction. He will also analyze the qualifications and
training of the staff of the forestry service.



- 110 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 12
S.    In view of the above analysis and taking into consideration the management capacity
of the Government, he will propose adjustments in the legislation of forest management and in
the forestry code. He will discuss his proposals with the Government and with the NGOs
concerned with the conservation of nature.
6.    He will identify major gaps in the training of the forestry service staff and, if
necessary, propose additional training, including some in service training in selected African
countries. He will also develop an on-the-job training program for each of the staff.
7.    After endorsement of the legislative proposals by the Government, he will develop an
action program for the implementation of the legislation, including: (i) control of tree cutting;
(ii) monitoring of the collection of fuelwood in ecological sensitive areas; (iii) control of
encroachments in the forest reserves; (iv) the collection of stumping fees; (v) other actions
which may be necessary. To achieve this level of control he will organize the training of
forest guards and improve the organization of the forest service itself.
8.    To increase the supply of fuelwood and tree fruit, he will propose community based
production methods, including the promotion by the Mesquita Extension Services of
commurity tree nurseries. For this purpose he will work in close liaison with the Poto-
Research center and the Mesquita Extension services.
9.    As the development of such a program may take time, the international expert will
carry out this assignment in short-term mission over a period of three years (4 person-months
per year).



- 111 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 11 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINJ'IPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
LAND USE STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe is embarking on a land distribution
program which will modify the management of land and natural resources. Land which was
previously state-owned, planted with tree crops and forest, will be privatized. In order to
avoid degradation of the environment and to preserve its natural resources, the Government
wants to review an existing Land Use Plan and define clearly the destination of areas for
urbanization, industry, tourism, agriculture and forestry. For this purpose at will recruit a
consulting firm to assist the Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment (MSEE) with the
review of the land use plan of 1976. The terms of reference of the consulting firm are as
follow.
Terms of Reference
2.    The consultants will analyze: (i) the existing Land Use Plan (LUP) of 1976, available
at the MSEE, (ii) the Forest Inventory and Wood Supply and Demand study of 1990; (iii) the
land distribution program; (iv) the tourism development plan; (v) the urban development
programs; and (vi) other relevant material which may be of interest for the LUP.
3.    Taking into consideration the above elements and studies, the consultants will, in co-
operation with the MSEE and the GCAT, elaborate a revision of the existing land use plan.
They will delineate forest reserves, land for agriculture and agro-forestry (tree crops), land
for urban development, industry and for other development such as mass tourism, ecological
tourism and other economic activities.
4.    The consultants will assist the MSEE with the definition of the framework for
implementation of the revised LUP and with the organization of this implementation. They
will assist with the elaboration of the legislation as well as with the design of the execution
mechanisms (printing of detailed maps) and the control mechanisms (building permits,
development permits, forestry concessions, etc.).
5.    In order to transfer the know-how involved to the employees of the MSEE, the
consultants will carry out their entire work in the offices of the MSEE in Sao Tome.
6.    The redesign of the Land Use Plan will involve 6 person-months of Lrternational
consultants. The technical assistance to the implementation will involve 4 person-months.



-  12 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 12 of 12
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
PRIVATIZATION SPECIALISTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Government of Sao Tome and Principe intends to privatize the cocoa sector
through land distribution and through the sale or the leasing of cocoa estates and cocoa
processing plants. The Government will recruit consultants to assist with the assessment of
the value of the estates and the processing units to be privatized, with the drafting of the lease
and sale contracts and with the negotiation of the agreements. The consultants will have a
university degree or other appropriate education in the field of their specific expertise, at least
10 years experience in their respective discipline as well as experience in Africa.
Terms of Reference
2.     The consultants will assist the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance with the
assessment of the cocoa estates and the cocoa processing plants in relation with its technical
and economic potential: the condition of the buildings and storage facilities, the transport
equipment and the processing units, the plantings and the agronomic potential, the condition
of the roads and the topography, the distance from the port, the potential for cocoa purchase
from neighboring planters and all other relevant factors which may influence the value of the
property.
3.    They will make an inventory of the valuable equipment and usable spare parts in
stock, describe the condition of the buildings, the processing units, the plantings, the roads
and other relevant factors. This inventory and description will be part of the lease contracts
to be negotiated.
4.    They will include all relevant elements which are specific to the estates and the
properties into the standard lease contracts and assist the Government with the computation of
the lease or sales price. They will review the proposals of the potential buyers and lessees
and may be invited to assist or represent the Government during negotiations.
5.    The consultants will compose a team of financial analysts, technical experts in
agronomy and cocoa processing, legal specialists and other relevant disciplines. They will be
recruited out of a pool of potential candidates, available at short notice.



Ratio of Cocoa Export Unit Values
Ghana and Sao Tome, 1961-1990
1.4
1.3
1.2
1                                                                     I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6                                a       a              a    a           a
1961 1963 1965 1967 1969 1971 1973 1975 1977 1979 1981 1983 1985 1987 1989
1962 1964 1966 1968 1970 1572 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988
Ratio of Sao Tomc over Ghana price



- 114 -                              ANNEX X
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DO)CUMENTS ON PROJECT FILE
1.    Estudo sobre a reorganisacdo do sector agrfcola de exportacao - Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries, April 1991.
2.    Etude sur la Modernisation de I'Agriculture a Sao Tome - Dendros S.A., January
1991.
3.    Rationalisation et modernisation de l'Agriculture A Sao Tome - Centre Mesquita, May
1991.
4.    Luta contra a Pobreza em Sao Tome e Principe - Sao Tome, Maio 1991.
5.    Distribuicao das terras e motivacao dos trabalhadores - Maria A.N. Trovoada, May
1991.
6.    Forest Inventory. Wood Supply and Demand in SAo Tome - Interforest, May 1990.
.7.    Modio Porte Project - CCCE - Juin 1991.
8.    Financial and economic project cost tables.
9.    Le Recensement Agricole - Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, Directorate of
Agriculture, 1991 (in draft form).
10.   Cultures Allimentaires de Sao Tome - Mesquita, Pilot Food Crop Development Project
(IFAD), August 1990.
11.   Proposals for the Economic Development of Sao Tome and Principe - Fundacion
Chile, Preliminary Report, August 1991.



NIGCRIA A
'.51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1- /
CAMEROON                                                         Moijo P.,xr              P,,.. M  o4
P_ /o  a doJs  ,; \  GUADALUPE 
& Paa!4C~PL  (2A80N     Ribe.,a Fundo,                               R       O
'REP OF                                                                                UBlf' 
'REPOF C                         UR.be,r, Polma                Boo Entc1dus              Vista          SAO TOtbE
.             z_  *~~Rzo l,ro                                        .-
6IC  Molbrrrt           Pon<aingo                                       '-O  
0^70                      Esprans                                             Pentecostes,                                                                        ?0
Mcsdoleno          -
Santo Morgor.dcsU
Dago VGAs                                                             
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 -    lu  bonO C Co,on;,
Monte Cali                  / 
iTRINDADE
/   c-   t-ff                        a    A    C'       >*  - -                        Qunabbcs~  ,
*)isaOrOso  I iii.',,o 
Sa A i,o                                                  /    PinSirNrcolou  ao
U Santa Caturinr.-                                     Zampolma                                      edo    (      u 
Colssrio3                                              Ubalbud.
Lembo                      >                                                 -                                       |      Anmomo    '
Miontes He'mrnn,os/
onto Furodo      -
J                                                                                         u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Bindo                                                                                                                   Z-Agua Ize
Juliona do Sou-
1403 in U,  Ribe.ro Allonso
eo rufero                 5Colnia Acoreono
010                                                                                                                                                           "'loiO  Q 1
Ang.o Told. a                  SAO rOME AND PRiNCIPE
SAO TOME
desa A,olorest -                RICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
ES Miguel                                                  dSontoeCoz    AND SMALLHOLDER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELEVATIONS IN METERS
Dono Agusto
500
Perser,eronca                                     1.500
* Ribeiro Poixe
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
P     NATIONAL CAPITAL
* Monte Mdr,o                                                              0      MAJOR TOWNS
Via Conce-c6o                                                                   PROJECT PLANTATIONS
U     MAJOR DEPENDENCIAS
*      AIRPORTS
*            Porto-Alegre                                                                           MAIN ROADS
_-- -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES
ROLAS ISLAND
This map has been prepared by The World Bank's staff exclusively for the
KILOMETERS                      convenience of rmoders and is exclusively for the internal use of The World
0   1   2        4 4   S   6   7  8         Bonk Group. The denominations used ond the boundaries shown on this
I   ?          I   I '                mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group, any judgement
I                   I      I               on the legal status of ony territory or any endorsement or occeptonce of
0      1     2      3      4      5         such boundaries.
6°30'                                          MILES                          6 41
NOVEMBER 1991



S ~    1,             /                                    21
i(I  -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '~
8DMO 8GM     ISLAND
',AO     .    - r 
Ri O f
co-NOC
.n            G-  $,
)         (~~SANTO ANTON[             toM/+    ln
G          gN~~ovo Cubo  ao Mdln
4,)                                 5usd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lu
S  oorJ u,m/Pof Real/|
J   Sonto To,niode    Bfi8ela Visto    Novc Etrelc
Fronc,sco            Fdcm               d undoo
Monte,o         Adre
1 36'                                                                                                                                                    1 36
Portelo de Lumtor                                                                                                                             3
Wonte D Henr.que
SAO TOME AND PRiNCIPE
PRiNCIPE
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
ONeves Fe,re-o                         AND SMALLHOLDER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-    MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
i      AIRPORT                      1-72
1°32                                                                                                                  0     TOWNS
°     PROJECT PLANTATIONS
*     MAJOR DEPENDENCIAS
BONE 00 JOOUEI I
0       1       2        3       4        5  KILOMETERS                                              ELEVATIONS IN METERS
I   I            I       I        I       I                                                 i  -     O
o            ;            2             3  MILES
ISOHYETS IN MIl(LIMETERS
This map has been orepared by The World Bank's staff exclusively for the
convenience of readers and is exclusively for the internal use of The World                       -- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bank Group. The denominations used and the boundaries shown on this
mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, ony judgement
on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or ac   1 s ' aof



