Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2325 STP
 (Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder Development Project)
                              between
           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 6, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2325 STP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the World Food
Program (WFP) a grant (the WFP Grant) in an amount equivalent to
approximately $2,200,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the WFP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and WFP; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Agriculture Enterprises" means the following state
agricultural enterprises of the Borrower: (1) Agostinho Neto, (2)
Agua Ize, (3) Bela Vista, (4) Colonia Acoreana, (5) Diogo Vaz, (6)
Milagrosa, (7) Monte Cafe, (8) Porto Alegre, (9) Ponta Figo, (10)
Porto Real, (11) Ribiera Peixe, (12) Santa Catarina, (13) Santa
Magarida, (14) Sundi and (15) Uba Budo;
      (b)   "DGA" means the Directorate-General of Agriculture
within the MEAF;
      (c)   "GCAT"  means the Cabinet for Coordination and Technical
Assistance within DGA;
      (d)   "Government-Managed Agriculture Enterprises" means
the following Agriculture Enterprises: (1) Agua Ize, (2) Colonia
Acoreana, (3) Milagrosa, (4) Porto Alegre, (5) Ponta Figo, (6) Porto
Real, (7) Ribiera Peixe, (8) Santa Catarina and (9) Sundi;
      (e)   "Land Distribution Procedures" means the land distribu-
tion procedures, agreed to by the Association pursuant to Section
6.01 (b) of this Agreement, adopted by the Borrower (by decree,
regulation and other act) to implement the distribution of land
under the land law, No. 03/91, promulgated June 28, 1991;
      (f)   "Lease Contract Agriculture Enterprises" means the
following Agriculture Enterprises: (1) Agostinho Neto and (2) Diogo
Vaz;
      (g)   "Management Contract Agriculture Enterprises" means the
following Agriculture Enterprises: (1) Bela Vista, (2) Monte Cafe,
(3) Santa Magarida and (4) Uba Budo;
      (h)   "MEAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Finance;
      (i)   "MSEE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Equipment
and Environment;
      (j)   "New Landholders" means smallholders and medium-sized
enterprises who either lease (e.g. under usufruct contracts) or
otherwise acquire (i) Agriculture Enterprise land pursuant to Part
A.1 of the Project or (ii) other farmland under the Land Distribu-
tion Procedures (including land redistributed pursuant to Section
3.06 of this Agreement);
      (k)   "NMMC" means the "Nuclei Management and Marketing
Corporation", a management and marketing corporation, acceptable to
the Association, employed by the Borrower for the management of the
Nuclei Enterprises;
      (l)   "Nuclei Enterprises" means the operational nuclei of the
Government-Managed Agriculture Enterprises;
      (m)   "Project Period" means the period commencing with the
Effective Date and ending with the Closing Date;
Page  3
      (n)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated May 2, 1990 and May 23, 1990,
and November 5, 1990 and January 29, 1991, and pursuant to the
letter agreement dated August 30, 1991, between the Borrower and the
Association; and
      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars in a commercial bank a special deposit
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, commenc-
ing January 15, 2002 and ending July 15, 2031. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on July 15, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A, B.3, B.5
and B.6 of the Project through the DGA, (ii) Parts B.1 and B.2 of
the Project through the MSEE, and (iii) Part B.4 of the Project
through the MEAF, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure, in carrying out Part
Page  5
A.1 of the Project, that at least 75% of the land distributed
thereunder (pursuant to a usufruct contract or otherwise) during
each calendar year is made to employees of Agriculture Enterprises,
graduates of agriculture training centers, employees laid off as
part of the reorganization of the civil service and parastatal
sector, and the unemployed, in parcels not to exceed 10 hectares,
per family.
      Section 3.04. Guidelines delineating the respective rights of
rural employers and employees and acceptable to the Association
shall have been issued by the Borrower not later than December 31,
1992.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not set the producer prices for agricultural
products during the Project Period.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994: (a) review all land use (titulos de posse) contracts granted
by the Borrower on or before September 30, 1991, (b) exercise any
related termination rights, and (c) distribute any land thus
unencumbered in accordance with the Land Distribution Procedures.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall make available to the
personnel of the Agriculture Enterprises the WFP food supplements on
an increasing price basis as follows: the personnel shall be
required to pay at least (a) 40% of the market value of such food
supplements, beginning July 1, 1992, (b) 50% of the market value of
such food supplements, beginning July 1, 1993, (c) 60% of the market
value of such food supplements, beginning July 1, 1994, (d) 80% of
the market value of such food supplements, beginning July 1, 1995,
and (e) 100% of the market value of such food supplements, beginning
July 1, 1996.
      Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association: (i) not earlier than 10 months and not later than
14 months after the Effective Date, a first year review of the
Progress made in carrying out the Project; and (ii) not earlier than
24 months and not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, a
mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project.
These reviews shall cover, among other things: the extent of
distribution of arable land under Part A.1 of the Project, natural
resource management proposals prepared under the Project, the
efficiency of agricultural production on the Agriculture Enter-
prises, and the impact of the cocoa export tax on the profitability
of the cocoa sector.
      (b)   Based on each such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action program, satisfactory to the Association, for the
further implementation of the Project, and shall implement such
program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
Page  6
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the WFP Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 1, 1993, or such later date as the Association may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
Page  7
                  sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
                  not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such agree-
                  ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                  available to the Borrower from other sources on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
                  tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii)
of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have appointed a manager of GCAT with
qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and such manager shall be in place;
      (b)   the Borrower shall have issued procedures (by decree,
regulation or other act), acceptable to the Association, for the
distribution of land under the land law, No. 3/91;
      (c)   the permanent staff of the Agriculture Enterprises shall
not exceed 7,750 in the aggregate;
      (d)   the Borrower shall have established a land distribution
commission responsible for overseeing the distribution of land under
Part A.1 of the Project, with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association and staffed by qualified personnel; and
      (e)   the Borrower shall have submitted to the Association the
audit reports required under Section 4.01 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement (Cocoa Rehabilitation Project), dated September 2,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio dos Assuntos Economicos
            e Financeiros
            C.P. 47
            Sao Tome
            Democratic Republic of Sao Tome
              and Principe
                                          Telex:
                                            225 MIPLANO ST
      For the Association:
Page  8
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                        By /s/ Aderito Ramos
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and                              100%
     Vehicles:
     (a) for Parts A.1,          480,000
         A.2 and B of
         the Project
     (b) for Parts A.3(a),       530,000
         (b) and (c) of
         the Project
     (c) for Part A.3(d)(i)      500,000
         of the Project
     (d) for Part A.3(d)(ii)     300,000
         of the Project
(2)  Civil Works                 330,000        100%
(3)  Consultants'              1,600,000        100%
     Services
Page  9
(4)  Training                    570,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Agricultural Inputs         720,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)  Plantation Rehabili-        110,000        50% of local
     tation Expenses for                        expenditures
     Uba Budo
(7)  Purchase of Cocoa           310,000        50% of local
     by NMMC                                    expenditures
(8)  Incremental Operating       100,000        100% of foreign
     Expenses for GCAT and                      expenditures and
     UAP                                        75% of local
                                                expenditures
(9)  Refunding of              1,200,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 550,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 7,300,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "agricultural inputs" means seedlings,
fertilizers, tools and other farming inputs;
      (d)   the term "plantation rehabilitation expenses for Uba
Budo" means expenses incurred for works to rehabilitate the Uba Budo
Agriculture Enterprise; and
      (e)   the term "incremental operating expenses for GCAT and
UAP" means expenses for office supplies, short-term personnel and
other costs incurred by GCAT or DGA's Unidade de Apoyo do Projecto
in carrying out Part A of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   Category (1) (b) until the NMMC shall have been employed
under terms of reference, and terms and conditions, acceptable to
the Association;
Page  10
      (c)   Category (1) (c) until the provisions of the management
contract governing the operation of the Uba Budo Agriculture
Enterprise shall have been renegotiated on the basis of terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association; and
      (d)   Category (1) (d) until the provisions of the management
contract governing the operation of the Bela Vista Agriculture
Enterprise shall have been renegotiated on the basis of terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase and
diversify agricultural production within the territory of the
Borrower; (ii) alleviate rural poverty; and (iii) improve natural
resource management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Privatization of Agriculture Enterprises and Restructur-
            ing of Agricultural Production
1.    Distribution on a usufruct basis or otherwise of arable land
of the Agriculture Enterprises, including at least 20,000 hectares
of the Government-Managed Agriculture Enterprises.
2.    Provision by the Borrower of technical and social services to
the New Landholders, including: (a) the provision of food supple-
ments and (b) the provision of agricultural extension and training
services.
3.    Improved technical efficiency of agricultural production,
through, inter alia:
      (a)   the more efficient operation of the Agriculture
Enterprises, including through the privatization of the Nuclei
Agriculture Enterprises;
      (b)   the provision of support services by the Nuclei
Agriculture Enterprises to surrounding New Landholders and other
farmers, including: (i) purchasing, processing and marketing of the
farmers' crops, and (ii) supplying agricultural inputs (such as
seedlings, fertilizers and tools);
      (c)   the rehabilitation of processing and other equipment of
the Nuclei Agriculture Enterprises; and
      (d)   the acquisition of processing equipment for use by (i)
the Uba Budo Agriculture Enterprise and (ii) the Bela Vista
Agriculture Enterprise.
4.Establishment of a cocoa quality improvement program.
Part B:     Improved Agricultural and Land Resource Management
1.    Reformulation of the Borrower's land use plan.
2.    Establishment of a rural cadastre.
3.    Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Borrower to
manage its agricultural and forestry resources, including:
      (a)   strengthening the institutional capacity of the DGA,
including its Department of Studies and Planning; and
      (b)   strengthening the training programs of the Centro de
Formacao Profesional Agraria de Bela Vista and the Centro de
Page  11
Aperfeicoamento Tecnico Agropecuaria.
4.    Monitoring the social impact of the restructuring of the
agriculture sector.
5.    Improvement of livestock husbandry practices.
6.    Preparation of a forestry code to improve forestry management.
                              *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Contracts (a) for cocoa dryers to be financed under Categories
Page  12
(1) (c) and (d) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and (b) for any other goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $250,000, may be awarded after direct negotia-
tions with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.    With respect to Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project:
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall cause the distribution of land
described in Part A.1 of the Project to be carried out in accordance
with the Land Distribution Procedures. The 20,000 hectares to be
distributed shall include approximately 12,000 hectares of land
planted with cocoa and 8,000 hectares planted with other perennial
crops.
      (b)   The Borrower shall use its best efforts to renegotiate
the lease and management contracts of the Lease Contract Agriculture
Enterprises and Management Contract Agriculture Enterprises so as to
release arable land from such contracts. The Borrower shall promptly
distribute any land so released in accordance with the Land
Distribution Procedures.
Page  13
2.    The Borrower shall operate GCAT and the land distribution
commission referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. Not later than
September 1, 1992, GCAT shall have employed a land distribution
specialist and a chief topographer, and DGA shall have employed an
accountant/procurement specialist, with qualifications and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall distribute WFP food supplements to New
Landholders free of charge during the first twelve months following
the acquisition of their land under the Land Distribution Proce-
dures.  Such aid shall be distributed through the Nuclei Agriculture
Enterprises.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that New Landholders continue to
receive the education, health and other social services previously
provided by the Agriculture Enterprises, initially through the NMMC
and subsequently directly by the Borrower.
5.    The Centro de Culturas Alimentaras Mesquita, the Centro de
Formacao Profesional Agraria de Bela Vista and the Centro de
Aperfeicoamento Tecnico Agropecuaria shall provide agricultural
extension and training services to the New Landholders.
6.The Borrower shall reduce the export tax on cocoa in a manner
acceptable to the Association.
B.    With respect to Part A.3 of the Project:
7.    The Borrower shall offer to the employees of the Agriculture
Enterprises, not later than September 30, 1992, a program for
voluntary departures acceptable to the Association, and shall
thereafter implement such program in a timely manner.
8.    The Borrower shall not permit the permanent staff of the
Agriculture Enterprises to exceed: (a) 6,500 by December 31, 1993,
and (b) such lower maximum amounts thereafter, acceptable to the
Association, as are required for the cost-effective operation of
such enterprises. The Borrower shall provide appropriate retirement
benefits and severance benefits to employees retired or laid-off by
the Borrower in achieving these staffing goals. The Borrower shall
ensure that adequate annual budgetary allocations are made for these
purposes.
9.    The Borrower shall, during the Project Period, operate the
Nuclei Agriculture Enterprises through the NMMC, or through any
other private sector arrangement acceptable to the Association. The
Borrower shall use its best efforts (a) to sell the Nuclei Agricul-
ture Enterprises to the private sector on reasonable commercial
terms, and (b) to the extent such sale is impracticable, to replace
the NMMC with private sector lessees on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
10.   The operator of each Nuclei Agriculture Enterprises shall
serve as the distributor of WFP food supplements.
11.   The Borrower shall ensure that DGA's agents carry out every
two weeks inspections of the NMMC's cocoa purchases and credit
recovery activities.
C.    With respect to Part B.1 of the Project:
12.   The land use plan referred to in Part B.1 of the Project
shall:
      (a)   delineate forestry and nature reserves, as well as land
available for agriculture, tourism and other purposes;
      (b)take into account the Borrower's long-term strategy to
diversify agriculture, to protect the environment and to promote
foreign exchange generating activities; and
Page  14
      (c)   provide for a ban on chopping down cocoa-bearing, forest
and other trees on steep slopes, except to replant tree crops.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
             (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  15
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligibleCategories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
