Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
}XJ 26'-s'2
Report No. 5495-SYR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
August 23, 1985
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture 1 Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (as of August 15,1985)
Currency Unit             =         Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 1.00                             US$0.253
US$1.00                   =LS 3.95
WEIGH-TS AND NEASURES
Metric Unit                      US Equivalent
1 millimeter (mm)         =         0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            =         2.47 acres (ac)
I liter (1)                         0.264 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)           =         2.2 pounds (lbs)
1. metric ton (ton)       =         2,205 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMNS USED
ACSAD    =   Arab Center for the Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Lands
CAB      =   Cooperative Agricultural Bank
DAR      =   Directorate of Agricultural Research
FAO      =   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
CDP      =   Gross Domestic Product
GOCPT    =   General Organization for Cereal Processing and Trade
GOSM     =   General Organization for Seed Multiplication
GUP      =   General Union of Peasants
UYV      =   High Yielding Variety
IBRD     =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICARDA   =   International  Center for Agricultural Research in Dry
Areas
ICB      =   International Competitive Bidding
IFAD     =   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IS           International Shopping
LCB      =   Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MAAR     =   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
PM       =   Project Manager
SMS      =   Subject Matter Specialist
UNDP     =   United Nations Development Progranmme
GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICUL A  EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . .
I.   AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
A.   Overview . . .
Agriculture's Role in the Economy.                           I
Land Resources and Land Use  . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Water Resources  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2
Livestock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .                3
Farm Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
Input Supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Marketing and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
Farm Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
B.   Sector Objectives and Policy Issues. . . . . . . . .          5
C.   Bank Group Lending for Ageiculture . . . . . . . . .          7
II.   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING. . . . . . .         8
A.   Agricultural Research. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
The Direcorate of Agricultural Research  . . . . . .         8
Linkages with Extension. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
B.   Agricultural Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
The Directorate of Agricultural Extension. . . . . .         9
Extension Program and Methodology. . . . . . . . . .        10
Other Organizations Providing Agricultural
Extension. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
C.    Agricultural Education and Training. . . . . . . . .        11
Agricultural Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
Agricultural Training .  . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Syria in November, 1984.  The mission consisted of Ms. Lituma and Mr. Fuad
(Bank) and Mr. Masterton (Consultant).  Mr. Nasr (Bank) also assisted  the
mission preparing the report.
fhidocument has a restricted distfibution and may be used by repients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                           Page No.
III.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
A.  Project Background, Rationale, Objective and Scope .      12
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
Project Rationale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
Project Objective and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
B.  Detailed Features. . .           ure . . .                14
Reorganization of Extensios Structure..                  14
Field Demonstrations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
Audiovisual Aids and Mass Media. . . . . . . . . . .     18
Training . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .                19
Technical Assistance   ..20
C.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting . . . . . . . .      21
D.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      22
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT. . . . . . . . .      23
A.  Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
B.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
C.  Procurement. . . . . . . . . i . . . . . . . . . . .      24
Equipment, Vehicles and Materials. . . . . . . . . .     25
Services. . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       26
D.  Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      26
E.  Disbursement        . . . ...               .26
F.  Accounts and Audits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      27
G.  Project Organization and Management. . . . . . . . .      28
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28
A. Budgetary Impact   ..28
B.  Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28
C. Risks  ..30
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .      30



Page No.
TEXT TABLES
1.1      Syria Irrigation Development and Potential. . . . . .       3
4.1      Summary of Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
4.2   Project Financing.             . . . . . . . .                24
4.3      Procurement Arrangements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      25
4.4      Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      27
ANNEX 1: Background
Table 1: Indices of Agricultural Production 1970, 1975, 1978-83 . .     32
Table 2: Area, Production and Yields of Major Crops in Syria
1963, 1977, and 1980, 1981, 1982 . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
Table 3: Official Procurement Prices of Selected Crops
1975, 1978 through 1989. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34
Table 4: Official Procurement Prices and International Prices of
Selected Crops 1978-84 .                                       35
Appendix 1: Recommended Extension Packages. . . . . . . . . . . . .     36
ANNEX 2: Project Implementation and Costs
Table 1: Directorate of Extension: Existing and
Project Staff Requirements . . . . . .38
Table 2: Procurement Schedule: Vehicles and Equipment.                  39
Table 3: Extension Methodology Training: Staff Training
Schedule.                                                      41
Table-4hedubjet .Ma  ..tt    ..     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Table 4: Subject Matter Specialists: Estimated
Distribution of Proposed Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     42
Table 5: Training and Technical Assistance: Detailed Cost Table . .    43
Table 6: Summary Account by Years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
Table 7: Summary Account by Project Components. . . . . . . . . . .     45
Table 8: Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan. . . . . .    46
Appendix 1: Work Schedule of Extension Agents  . . . . . . . . . .      47
ANNEX 3: Technical Assistance Program: Draft Terms of Reference
and Qualifications for Consultants. . . . . . . . . . . .      48
ANNEX 4: Project Benefits
Table 1: Extension Agent Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
Table 2: Total Farmer's Contacted and Adaptors.  . . . . . . . .        53
Table 3: Farm Income: Financial Impact of Recommended
Technological Packages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
Table 4: Yield Input, Mechanization and Labor
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     55
ANNEX 5: Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
CHARTS
1     Organization Chart of the MAAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     57
Map     IBRD No. 18771: National Agricultural Extension Project



SYR1IA ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Syrian Arab Republic
Amount:              US$7.5 million equivalent
Terms;               Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description:         The proposed project supports the Government's objective
of increasing agricultural productivity through strength-
ening the organizational and management structure of the
agricultural extension system and improving farm manage-
meat practices. The project would include provision of
equipment and vehicles as well as training and technical
assistance to improve the planning, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities of the extension system.
Benefits
and Risks:           The project would directly benefit some 380,000 farm
families or about 80 percent of the country's farm
covunity.  It would also increase agricultural produc-
tivity and strengthen the organizational structure as
well as improve the efficiency of the extension system.
The availability of applicable and financially attrac-
tive technological packages, the Government's commitment
to introduce a modern extension system and the progress
achieved to date in expanding extension services minimize
the risk that the proposed extension improvements may not
be fully adopted or permanently institutionalized.



- ii -
Estimated Proiect Costs:
$ Million
Local         Foreign         Total
Reorganization of the
Extension Structure                  12.4              8.9          21.3
Field Demonstration                     1.1              1.0           2.1
Mass Media                              1.1              1.2           2.3
Technical Assistance                    0.1              0.8           0.9
Training                                1.8              0.1           1.9
Total Base Cost                   16.5             12.0         28.5
Physical Contingencies                  1.0              0.7           1.7
Price Contingencies                    3a8               2.3           6.1
Total Project Cost                21.3 a/          15.0         36.3 a/
Financing Plan:
$ million
Local         Foreign         Total
Bank                                                     7.5           7.5
IFAD                                     -               7.5           7.5
Government                             21.3               -           21.3
Total                             21.3             15.0         3b.3
Estimated Disbursements;
9 Million
IBiD Fiscal Year:                 1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
Annual                            0.25     0.45      2.20     2.70      1.90
Cumulative                       0.25      0.70      2.90     5.b0      7.50
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5495-SYR, dated August 23, 1985.
Map: No. 18771.
a/ Includes about $2.5 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
A. Overview
1.01    Agriculture's Role in the Economy.  The agricultural sector in the
Syrian economy accounts for about 19% of the gross domestic product (GDP) and
about 30% of the labor force. In addition, intersectoral linkages are strong;
about one third of the gross output and one half of employment in the manu-
facturing sector are in food, beverages and textile activities. Agricultural
output of Syria fluctuates widely in response to climatic conditions. During
the first half of the 1970s the index of agricultural production rose rapidly,
at 8.9% p.a., and continued to grow at 7.7% p.a. during 1976-80, boosted by a
bumper  crop  in  1980.   The average  annual  increase was much lower during
1980-83, 2.9%, resulting mainly from poor climatic conditions (Annex 1, Table
1). Output of vegetables and industrial crops (cotton and sugarbeet) suffered
less than cereals as they are cultivated mostly in irrigated areas. Improved
rainfall through the spring of 1985, could result in a bumper crop and repeat
the 1980 experience. The drought years necessitated a substantial increase in
agrielLltural imports, from IS 160 million in 1979 to LS 875 million in 1983
for cereals, and from LS 190 million to LS 225 million for sugar.   Cotton
exports which amounted to LS 682 million in 1983, are second only to petroleum
as foreign exchange earners. While currently Syria is exporting only limited
amounts of fruits and vegetables, the natural resource base and proximity to
prosperous gulf markets suggest a potential for continued expansion of such
exports if it establishes a reputation as a reliable, low-cost supplier of
high quality products.
1.02    Land Resources and Land Use.  The country has a land area of about
18.5 million ha, of which about 65% receives less than 200 mm of rainfall
annually (Map IBRD 18771).   Crop production  is generally  confined  to  the
higher rainfall areas, and to areas developed with irrigation. Of the arable
land of about 6.2 million ha, 4.0 million ha is cropped (with 0.6 million ha
irrigated), 1.8 million ha is annually rotated fallow and 0.4 million ha is
uncultivated.  Forests, steppe and pastures cover about 8.8 million ha, and
non-arable land, about 3.5 million ha. The most important crops grown under
rainfed conditions are barley, wheat,  fruits and legumes.   Irrigated crops
include wheat, cotton, vegetables, fruits, oilseeds and sugarbeets. There is



extensive sheep grazing on the steppe and pasture lands, supplemented in some
cases by crop residues and government supplied feed.  In recent years, agri-
cultural technology has improved markedly with about a 3002 increase in
fertilizer use since 1973.  High yielding varieties (HYV) of wheat have been
widely adopted in irrigated areas and, to a lesser extent, in high rainfall
areas (over 350mm p.a.); also, improved cotton varieties are widely accepted
in irrigated areas. Nevertheless, because adoption of improved techniques has
lagged behind recommended levels, yields remain well below demonstrated
potential.
1.03     Currently there are about 480,000 farm  families  (including  about
40,000 engaged in livestock activities) with an average of about 6.2 members
per family.  Most farm units are privately owned, except for a few state
farms.  About 80X of the farm holdings are located in irrigated and high
rainfall areas. Average farm size ranges from about 3.0 ha in high rainfall
or irrigated areas to about 45 ha in low rainfall areas. In the 1970s, farm
family incomes were less than half of those of urban families, causing large
migration to urban areas and to neighboring countries and resulting in
seasonal  labor  shortages.   In  recent  years,  however,  urban/rural  income
differentials have decreased and migration has slowed.
1.04     Water Resources.   Water  shortage is a major constraint in Syrian
agriculture as total precipitation is low, variable and unevenly spread.
Improved cultural practices based on moisture conservation and more efficient
use of fallow land would reduce the impact of inter annual fluctuations and
spur sectoral growth. These improved cultural practices would be demonstrated
on farmers' fields and disseminated under the proposed project.   Irrigation
development has been a principal means of offsetting the risks arising from
climatic factors. Apart from areas benefitting from small river streams, the
principal river basins in Syria are those of the Euphrates, with an annual
run-off of about 27,000 million m3, the Khabour, with 2,000 million m3 and the
Orontes with 1,500 million m3. The Tigris with the second largest run-off in
Syria is not developed for irrigation at present.   Irrigated areas in Syria
cover about 558,000 ha at present and the Government has identified potential
in 1,210,000 ha.  Groundwater potential has not been fully investigated but
these resources appear to be limited and hence serve mainly as a source of
supplementary irrigation to about 260,000 ha.  The extent to which surface
irrigation potential (Table 1.1) is reached over the long run will depend,
among other factors, on the resolution of riparian issues with neighboring
countries.



-3-
Table 1.1: SURFACE WATER DEVELOPMENT AND POTENTIAL
(ha)
Total Identified              Currently
Irrigation Potential          Irrigated        X
----------------------ha…----------   -----------------
Euphrates Basin             525,000                     121,000         23
Ihabour Basin               186,000                     101,000         54
Tigris Basin                120,000                        -            -
Other Surface
Schemes                   120.000                      77,000         64
951.000                     299.000         31
Recognizing this potential, and the importance of water as a constraint to
agricultural development, the Government is implementing an ambitious program
to reclaim and irrigate an additional  652,000 ha.   This  program  suffered
initial   implementation  delays  due  to  construction  problems  and  cost
increases. However, works are currently making progress and a portion of the
benefitted area will be brought into production startinig in 1985.  In addi-
tion, because significant production increases can be achieved through improve-
ments in cropping intensities and yields in irrigated areas and implementation
capacity to expand irrigated areas is limited to about 20,000 ha per year, the
Government's current investment plans give priority to completing ongoing
irrigation  projects,  and  rehabilitating  existing   infrastructure,   while
strengthening agricultural extension and research.
1.05     Livestock.  Livestock activities in Syria account for about 20-402 of
agricultural production depending on climatic conditions, with nearly half of
the land area suitable only for livestock production.  Traditionally, this
activity has been based on seasonal utilization of the steppe, with movements
of flocks to and from post-harvest crop land.  The steady increase in herds
since 1971 is causing deterioration of range lands and has modified sub-
stantially the traditional balance of forage utilization and the accompanying
flock movement.  Currently, grazing reso*rces provide only about 33S of total
feed supply compared  to 652 a decade ago.  Measures to stabilize the herd
number, improve veterinary services and enhance utilization of crop residues
are needed to ensure a more efficient and sustainable level of livestock
production.
1.06     Farm Credit.   The  principal  institutional  source  of  agricultural
credit is the Cooperative Agricultural Bank (CAB). established in 1970 as a
wholly Government owned organization.   To facilitate the  expansion  of  its
operations, the Government increased CAB's capital from LS 150 million in
1979, to LS 250 million in 1983 and is expected to raise it further to
LS 1,000 million during  1985.  CAB has 62 branches and mainly finances the
needs of cooperatives and individual farmers who are licensed by the Ministry
of Agriculture  and Agrarian Reform  (MAAR).   Each  cooperative  prepares an
annual plan incorporating all loans required by its members.   About three-
quarters of CAB lending consists of short-term loans, less than 10X are



- 4 -
long-term loans, and the remiainder, are medium-term loans.  Althotlgh interest
rates charged to burrowers were incrcased in 19L1I, they art! still low, raniging
from 2% to 4% p.a. for tt: puiblic ste*Lor, 2% to b% for cooperatives, atid 3% to
7.5% for privaLe individuals (ahout two percentage points below those clharged
to Lhe industrial sector).  Int':rest rate-s oUl deposits range trom 4% for sight
accounts up to MZ for term deposits of nDt oless than 12 months, and a flat 2%
p.a. for public sector deposits.  CABl's narrow  lending  margin  and negative
interest rates in real terins 1/ halve eroded CAB's financial position and made
it excessively dependent on Government ctipital contribiutions.  The need  for
periodic  interest rate aadjustments and reduction of the gusp between prefer-
tnLijal and other rates tire expected  to be reviewed wiLh Covernment during
macroeconomic policy discussions scheduled for later this year.
1.07       p tat Sup 3Iy.  From three ferLilizer plants, the Ceneral Organization
of Chemical Industry produces the eountry's requirements of nitrogenous and
p1hosphatLic fertilizx-rs; but potassic fertilizer is imported.  Although ferti-
lizer prices have not been increased during the last three years,  official
prices are currently higher Lhan those observed In the international markets,
even if converted into US$ at the parallel exchange rate.  Between 1973 and
1982. thc use of cihemical fertilizer increased from 103,000 tons to 385,000
tons.  However, as this growth has occurred  in thc absence of an eftective
extension service, fertilizer application is often poorly timed, and sometimes
wastefutl.  Thc General Organization for Seed Multiplication (GOSM) has been
producing, through contact growers, certified seed of wheat, cotton, barley,
maize. chickpeas, broad beans and potatoes.  Farmers using improved seeds have
tended to purchase new seed annually, mainly because of lack of seed cleaning
equipment and because, until recently, no premium was paid on certified seed.
CAB is responsible for storage and distribution of fertilizer, seeds and
pesticides, and its income through earnings on such operations, permits it to
cover adequately its operaLional costs. As of 1984, CAB had a network of 140
stores and warehouses in its 62 nationwide branches. Storage and distribution
of fertilizer, seeds and pesticides is satisfactory, with input supply
increasing rapidly during recent years, and no delays being reported by
farmers.
1.08     Marketing and Distribution.   Agricultural  produce is purchased both
by Government and private merchtants.  Fruits and vegetables are bought  from
farmers. predominantly by private merchants, although a small portion is also
marketed by the Governmenft's General Company for Food.  There is active compe-
tition  among morchants, and generally, prices received by producers reflect
market demand and supply conditions.   However,  to  increasc exports of such
products substantially, produce grades and standards would need to bc improved
anld export  licenising  system  for  privatc  tenders  relaxed.   Through  public
sector processing cnterprises, the Goveraiment is the sole purchaser of cotton,
tobacco and sugarbeet.  The General Organization  for Cereal  Processing and
Trade (GOCPT) purchases less than one-third of the output of wheat, maize,
1/  Annual inflation rate was b.2  in 1983.  It rose to 10% during the  12
months ending in August 1984 and is estimated to reach 15% per annum in
1985.



- 5 -
barley, lentils and groundnuts at official procurement prices (para. 1.12)
announced before planting sensons.  COCPT also handles the export/import trade
of  these  cominodities.   This  organization  operates  through  a  network  of
branches and multipurpose cooperatives, which act as government agents.
1.09     Farm MaiaRgement.  Management practices at farm-level need substantial
improvement;  yields and cropping  intensities are substantially below their
potential.   Improvements  in  productivity  are dependent  on  timely  seeding,
fertilizer and pesticide application, better water management practices in
irrigated areas, and improved moisture conservation tezhniques and practices.
Experiments and field trials are being conducted by Government research
institutes on crop management, fertilizer use, pest and weed control, and use
of fallow land. Though the resulting recommendations are now being practiced
by a few progressive farmers, cultural practices followed by the majority are
unsatisfactory.  While most land preparation is done mechanically resulting in
deep-plowed, clean secdbeds, farmers carry out weed control only on a limited
scale due to its high labor cost and their insufficient knowledge of selective
use of herbicides. Also, although the fertilizer use has increased markedly
over  the  last  ten years,  it  is still below recommended  levels.   Farmers
cultivating under rainfed conditions are reluctant to apply recommended
dosages, although benefits from fertilizer application can outweigh the
possible losses from low rainfall and the risk could be minimized by stag-
gering  fertilizer application.   Further,  the application  of phosphorus at
seeding time would help strengthen and deepen the root system, enabling more
effective water utilization.   Traditionally, Syrian rainfed farmers leave a
portion of land fallow to conserve moisture. Research results have indicated,
however, that very little, if any, moisture is actually being thus conserved,
due mainly to high evaporation rate during summer months and that substitution
with a legume crop is preferable. While some farmers have reduced, or in some
cases eliminated fallow, yet about 1.8 million ha remain underutilized every
year.   The  agricultural  extension  service  which  should  demonstrate  and
disseminate improved technology needs substantial strengthening as envisaged
under this project (paras. 2.05-2.10).
B. Seetoni Objectives and Policy Issues
1.10     The Government's development strategy in agriculture as envisaged in
the Fifth Five-Year Plan (099i-8'), focuses on: (a) achieving an average 7.8Z
p.a.  agricultural  growth;  (b) achieving  self-sufficiency  in  agricultural
commodities and raw materials in which Syria has comparative advantage;
(c) incrcasing export earning; from agricultural products; and (d) enhancing
productivity, rural  income aind livin1g standards.  The Fourth and Fifth Plan
documents also highlighted the need tor more intensive cultivation, the use of
price  policy  to  provide  production  incentives.  and  an  expanded  use  of
tertilizers, pesticides .and improved seeds.
1.11     During  the  Fourtli Five-Ycar Plan  (1976-80).  7Z of  the  investment
budget was alHlocated to the agricultural serLor, but because investments were
concentrated *n  long gest.ation projects,  thLeir impact on growth was small.
Therefore,  the 7.%. average annual grawth ot agricultural output during the
Fourth Plan period r.sulted mostly from adopt;on o! improved technologies and
from favorable weather conditisnn:..  Under thc ongoing Fifth Plan,  19% of the
investment budget has been alltocated  to agriculture;  of  this about 13%  is
specitically assigned to investrments in th!u Euphrates basin mainly to complete
ongoing subprojects and to rehatilitate existing irrigation areas.  The Plan



- 6 -
also places great emphasis on investments and productivity improvements in
rainfed  cultivation,  farm  mechanization,  and  agricultural  research  and
extension. This project is directly supportive of these objectives.
1.12     The  Government's  sector  policy  is  guided  by  Law  Number  14  of
November 9,  1975.   The  purpose  of this law is to determine land use and
cropping patterns "consistent with the best agricultuil techniques available"
to meet specified annual production targets.  Annual agricultural plans based
on research findings are prepared by MAAR within the framework of five year
plans.   The MAAR through its Directorate of Agricultural Affairs has the
responsibility to license farmers to carry out yearly plans, and is empowered
to apply penalties for non-compliance and offer incentives for encouraging
conformity to plans. As MAAR does not have sufficient data or manpower to
prepare detailed production plans o- to monitor individual farmers' activities,
deviations from licensed cropping patterns are not uncommon.  To encourage
Syrian farmers to move progressively into the production of high value
specialized crops and crops in high domestic and export demand, there appears
to be a need for greater flexibility in the planning system and to increase
the role of relative prices in determining producers' decisions related to
cropping patterns and input use. In that respect, the monitoring and evalua-
tion system to be introduced under the project will provide information on
financial and economic viability of different production techniques on
different microclimatic soils and conditions. Such information is expected to
be used not only for the extension activities but also to assist the Government
in improving decision-making on agricultural production plans increasingly on
a bottom-up basis with even greater involvement of farmers and cooperatives.
Based on sector work scheduled in FY86, these issues will feature in subsequent
policy dialogue with the Syrian authorities.
1.13     Prices  for  most  agricultural  commodities  are  controlled  by  the
Government. The Government establishes official procurement prices on the
basis of average production costs and uses them as instruments to provide
adequate income to farmers and to encourage them to expand output of strategic
crops in accordance with the annual plan (para. 1.12). During the last seven
years, official procurement prices have more than doubled (Annex 1, Table 3)
Thus, domestic procurement prices for the major internationally traded crops
are now high relative to international prices (converted at the official
exchangc rate of LS 3.95/US$ from 1978 to 1980 and at the parallel market rate
of LS 5.45JUS$ from 1981 to 1984) particularly for maize and sugar beets
(Annex 1, Table 4).  Given the Government's commitment to maintaining low
prices on basic foodstuffs, these high producer prices have resulted in large
food subsidies for some products such as bread and sugar. However, in the
light of increasing fiscal pressures, the Government proposes to review its
present policies. As agreed during the negotiations for the Southern Regional
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2124-SYR), the Government has furnished
to the Bank a study on agricultural prices, marketing and interest rates,
which describes the current policies.  This study will be used as the basis
for further analysis in the proposed sector work and followed up policy
discussions with the Government scheduled for FY86 (para. 1.12), specifically
with respect to resource allocation, pricing, and subsidies.



- 7 -
C. Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
1.14     The Bank's lending strategy in the agricultural sector has been to
finance projects which help the Government attain its objectives of increased
production and reduce the dependence on fluctuating rainfall.  In the 1970s,
the Bank approved four agricultural projects-two in the irrigation subsector
(Balikh Irrigation Loan 975/Credit 469-SYR and Lower Euphrates Drainage Pro-
ject, Loan 1682-SYR, totaling US$103.0 million), and one each in the livestock
and agroindustry subsectors (Livestock Development Project Loans 1311/1312T-SYR
for US$17.5 million, and Cotton Seed Oil Processing Project Loan 1631-SYR for
US$21 million).  The last mentioned project was cancelled due to long delays
in recruitment of consultants. The Bank's lending program in the irrigation
subsector is assisting the Government in expanding the irrigated area (Balikh
Irrigation Drainage Project) and improving and intensifying production on
existing irrigated land (Lower Euphrates Drainage Project). The start-up of
the Balikh Project was substantially delayed mainly due to problems of con-
struction and sharp increases in construction costs. As a consequence, the
project scope had to be limited to half of the originally planned area.
Start-up of the Lower Euphrates Drainage Project was delayed due to pro-
curement problems but implementation capability within the Ministry of
Irrigation has subsequently improved. Construction works on the two projects
are making better progress and the total benefited area will be brought into
production during 1985 and 1986. The Livestock Development Project which has
been completed and fully disbursed has had a positive impact on the income of
the livestock subsector.  Based on lessons learned as noted in the Livestock
Project Completion Report dated June 24, 1985, possibilities of better
utilization of agricultural by-products, change in barley marketing policy,
improvements in market conditions and ways and means to stabilize the herd are
now being discussed with the Government as the basis for a future project in
this subsector.  In 1982, the Bank approved the fifth loan for the sector
(US$22 million), for the Southern Regiona'l Agricultural Development Project
(Ln. 2124-SYR) aimed at improving and rehabilitating 30,000 ha of rainfed
area.   Though  the  Project  experienced  substantial  initial  delays  due  to
procurement problems, field works have already started and the project is now
proceeding well. As a result of a procurement seminar held in the country and
drawing up of standardized tender documents, procure-ent related delays are
likely to be minimized in future.



- 8 -
11. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH. EXTENSION AND TRAIlG
A. Agricultural Research
2.01     Agricultural research in Syria is planned, organized and carried out
by two national directorates (Agricultural Research and Soils) within MAAR.
In addition, the two international organizations, the Arab Center for the
Studies of Arid Zones and Dryland (ACSAD) and the International Center for
Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA), both with headquarters in Syria
carry out significant research activities in supDort of the national programs.
2.02     The Directorate of Agricultural Research (DAR), established in 1953,
carries out adaptive research in all aspects of agricultural development
including livestock. The DAR is headquartered in Douma, near Damascus and has
22 substations located in different climatic zones. Its main research program,
in major field crops, vegetables, seed legumes and fruit tree crops emphasizes
varietal improvements, control of diseases and pests and cultural practices.
The Directorate of Soil is in charge of soil laboratories and conducts trials
on soil fertility, soil management and soil reclamations.  It also carries out
experiments and trials on crop rotation, irrigatiun crop requirements and in
minimizing frost effect on fruit trees.  Each of these two directorates has an
independent national research committee which meets once a year to review
results of the previous year and decide upon research  programs  fcr  the
forthcoming year.  As these committees function under the direction of the
Minister of Agriculture, a degree of coordination in research planning and
programs  is  ensured.   However,  some duplication of  research effort,  and
deficiencies in coordinating field activities remain. ACSAD, created in 1971
with headquarters in Douma near Damascus, is an autonomous body affiliated
with the Arab League. Its research program in the arid and semiarid areas of
Syria emphasizes water management, soils, cereals, fruit trees and animal
husbandry.  ICARDA, established in 1976 with headquarters  in Aleppo, which
belongs to the CGIAR system carries out research programs dealing with:
integrated farming systems, and improvement of cereals, food legumes and
forage crops improvement. Both international organizations cooperate with the
national research directorates mainly through their verification and training
progr_s..
2.03     Research efforts in the country have been successful in developing
recommendations used by the Government in formulating its agricultural plans
(para. 1.12). Also, certain financially and economically attractive packages
have been developed, particularly for the irrigated and high rainfall areas.
These packages include: high yielding varieties of wheat, seed legumes and
cotton; more efficient fertilizer rates and timing of application; disease and
pest control in major crops; improved farming practices, including seed bed
preparation and time and method of seeding; and more efficient use of fallow
land (Annex 1, Appendix 1).  Uptake of new technological packages, however,
has been limited to some progressive farmers mainly due to the absence of an
efficient extension service.  Although a sufficient number of technological
packages are now available for dissemination to farmers, the continuous
availability of improved technology (on which effective extension would



- 9 -
depend in the medium- and long-term) will require additional research effort
and improvement in research efficiency. Specifically, more emphasis is needed
in the areas of mechanization (particularly, planting and harvesting techni-
ques), water management, and weed control, as well as on rainfed crops
(particularly barley) under low rainfall conditions.   These activities  are
currently being emphasized in close collaboration with ICARDA and ACSAD, but
would need to be further strengthened in the medium term.   Recognizing the
need for efficient use of scarce research resources, the Government has
recently proposed to merge the two national research organizations into a
single semiautonomous organization which would have responsibility for
coordinating all research effort in the country.
2.04     Linkages with Extension.   Contacts  between  research and  extension
staff take place at all levels but only on an ad hoc basis. Research findings
are currently transmitted to the extension service through publications, annual
reports and training efforts but not readily translated into recommendations
suitable for farmers' use. To have an effective two-way flow of information,
research/extension contacts need to be formalized and expanded to include
active participation by extension staff in research verification trials and by
research  staff  in  field  demonstrations.   The  structure  and  organization
proposed under the project would ensure progress on these lines.
B. AMicultmil Extension
2.05     The Directorate of Agricultural Extension.   Agricultural  extension
has existed in Syria, though on a limited scale, since the early 1950s. It
was only in 1978 that Government established a Directorate of Extension in the
MAAR and a Department of Extension in each of the 14 governorates' (Mohafaza)
Directorates of Agriculture for making improved technological packages in all
aspects of agricultural activities available to farmers.   The Director of
Extension reports directly to a Deputy Minister, who is also in charge of
animal production and health, rangelands, forests and training. Two other
deputy mir,,.sters are responsible for agricultural research, soils, plant
protection, mechanization, planning and statistics, finance and specialized
commodity bureaus (Chart, World Bank 27068).
2.06     To enhance the effectiveness of the extension  service,  the Fifth
Five-Year Plan provides for the establishment of a national network of 600
service units to bring agricultural services to all farm families in the
country.  The construction program has proceeded on scheduie and about 430
units were completed by the end of 1984, with the remaining 170 to be
completed in 1985.  Of the total, 450 (360 completed and 90 being constructed)
are located in irrigated and high rainfall areas. As distribution of units
already constructed is uneven, with some units servicing 20%-25% of the
recommended service area and others serving more than 150%, the Directorate of
Extension is reviewing the boundaries of existing centers and is revising
locations under the 1985 construction program.
2.07     The extension service is presently organized at three levels, viz.;
national,  Mohafaza,  and  extension  units.   At  the  national  level,  the
organization consists of four sections reporting directly to the Director of



- 10 -
Extension: (a) Field (b) Information; (c) Women Development; and (d) Adminis-
tration. The organization at the Mohafaza level is similar. At the extension
unit level, the extension staff, are village level extension agents in direct
contact with farmers.  All Mohafaza extension staff are responsible to the
Director of Extension for technical matters, but administratively controlled
by the Director of Agriculture, who reports directly to the Minister. This
organizational structure, while emphasizing village level contact, suffers
from absence of regular and reliable supervision and the lack of systematic
technLcal support to extension agents. Currently they receive only some ad
hoc guidance from agriculturists employed by other directorates or departments.
2.08     At the end of 1984, of a total of 1,221 extension staff in post, (900
in the area of the proposed project) 27 were located in the Directorate of
Extension in Damascus, 67 in the 14 Mohafaza departments, and 1,127 extension
agents at the village level (Annex 2, Table 1). The rapid expansion of the
extension efforts without adequate organization structure planning has resulted
in this large number of staff at the village level lacking the necessary super-
visory and technical support at the Directorate and Mohafaza levels. Moreover,
the planning, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the managerial staff,
need to be strengthened. In this context, an extension advisor to the Director
of Extension is expected to be recruited by end 1985 for a two-year period
under the ongoing UNDP project No. SYR/83/002/CJ01/12. Although about 80Z of
the extension agents are university graduates, their current capability for
efficiently transferring improved technology to farmers is limited. Realizing
that the university curricula do not include extension methodology or practical
aspects of farming (para. 2.11), MAAR has initiated staff training to rectify
these weaknesses but these training efforts are limited in scale and quality.
2.09     Extension Program and Methodology.  To date, headquarters and Mohafaza
staff have been occupied more with planning the location and construction of
the extension units, than with program planning and quality of extension. At
the field level, the extension methodology currently being practiced comprises
mainly field demonstrations and field days, with limited use of mass media.
In areas where extension staff have been trained they have also been carrying
out farm surveys and analyzing development potential, priorities, and needs.
Based on these analyses and on broad guidelines developed by the Directorate
of Extension and its Mohafaza counterparts, agents have been proposing annual
work programs with monthly work schedules for review and approval by the higher
authorities. Agents are seldom supervised and receive little technical support
beyond annual training and pamphlets. In addition, work schedules are not met
because of vehicle and equipment limitations. Farm visits are infrequent and,
therefore, field demonstrations are underutilized. The mass media program is
mainly confined to technical publications, that are not adapted to direct
farmer use. Despite these weaknesses, in 1984, the performance of the exten-
sion service, at least quantitatively, has substantially improved with about
3,000 field demonstrations and 3,600 field days to its credit.
2.10     Other Organizations providing Agricultural Extension.  In addition to
the Directorate of Extension, some relatively small-scale extension efforts



- 11 -
are provided by the Directorates of Animal Production, Agricultural Affairs,
and Plant Protection; the General Organization for Seed Multiplication (GOSM);
specialized bureaus; the General Union of Peasants (GUP); and the Ministry of
Irrigation.   Extension  responsibilities  of  tare Ministry  of  Irrigation are
confined  to areas  newly developed  for  irrigation,  and  those  of  GOSM  to
contacting seed growers.  The GUP with over 3,000 multipurpose cooperatives
are mostly concerned with credit, input distribution, and marketing of certain
crops.   Their  technical staff, whose task is largely to train farmers on
cooperative related matters, incidentally and in the absence of an effective
extension  service,  offer  some  farm  advice.   Also,  in  the  absence  of an
effective extension service, modest uncoordinated services have been developed
by other organizations in an attempt  to fill the gap.   Therefore, as the
Directorate of Extension develops a full range of extension services, these
other organizations would gradually withdraw from field level extension,
confining their contribution to subject matter support ard training as needed.
C. Agmicultural Education and Traiing
2.11     Agricultural Education.  Two Ministries are primarily responsible for
agricultural education in Syria. The Ministry of Higher Education operates
four universities each with a faculty of Agriculture, while the Ministry of
Education operates three intermediate agricultural institutes.  In addition,
MAAR operates five secondary agricultural schools, one veterinary institute,
two veterinary  technical schools, and two machinery secondary schools.  The
annual output of all these institutions is over 2,000 graduates which appears
to be in excess of the current needs of the agricultural sector. As part of
the preparation of the Sixth Five Year Plan (1986-1970) the Government is
proposing to review ways and means to better balance requirements and output
of agricultural graduates. The main constraint in agricultural education is,
therefore, qualitative rather than quantitative. In particular, the agricul-
tural curricula are weak in extension methodology and practical farming
techniques.
2.12     Agricultural  Training.   In an effort to correct these weaknesses,
MAAR is engaged in several short-term agricultural training programs. Primary
responsibility for agricultural training in MAAR rests with the Directorate of
Training.   Assisted  by  research  and  other  directorates  and  specialized
bureaus, it is currently providing technical short-term training for about
2,000 MAAR staff annually. These technical courses are well organized and
generally run on schedule.  However, curricula are not properly geared to
extension, nor are they related to the relevant technical packages recommended
for each Mohafaza. MAAR is establishing three specialized training centers in
mechanizatior and one in dairy production. The Mechanization Center in Aleppo
is in full operation with an annual capacity of about 100 trainees. Those in
Homs and Deraa are being established, with the latter currently in operation,
under the Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2124-SYR).
The Dairy Center in Homs is being developed with financial assistance from the
Government of the Netherlands.
2.13     In addition, the Directorate of Extension, with  the assistance of
UNDP and FAO (UNDP Project No. SYR/83/002/C/01/12), has provided, since 1981,



- 12 -
training in extension methodology and communication skills.  This eight-week
training at the Chamia Training Center near Damascus focuses on communication
techniques for farmer training, technology transfer, farm surveys and field
demonstrations. Through 1984, a total of 470 staff have been trained, of whom
360 are currently working  for  the extension service.  Currently, MAAR is
expanding the Center by constructing additional facilities, which, beginning
1986, would increase the annual training capacity from 180 to 270.
2.14     ACSAD and ICARDA provide training courses mainly for research staff
which are open to Syrian nationals.   ACSAD has been providing training  In
irrigation agronomy, and ICARDA in cereals, legumes and farming systems. At
appraisal, both organizations expressed willingness to assist the Government
in training extension staff, particularly Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs),
under the proposed project.
[IL THE PROJECT
A. Project Background, Rationale, Objectives and Scope
3.01     Background.  Following the Government's request to IFAD for financing
a nationwide agricultural extension service, project preparation was started
by FAO Investment Center in April 1982. Subsequently, IFAD, FAO and the Bank
discussed with Government the need for some adjustments on project scope and
possible Bank co-financing. In March 1983, a second FAO preparation mission
visited Syria and issued a report in September, 1983 which served as basis for
the Bank's preappraisal in November 1983, and appraisal in November 1984.
3.02     Project Rationale.  Major objectives  of  Government  policy are  to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodstuffs in which Syria has a comparative
advantage and to increase its agricultural export earnings. To this end, the
Government has, during the past ten years, made major investments to expand
irrigated areas, improve input supply, and develop rainfed areas through rock
clearing and terracing. In addition, the MAAR research institutes, with the
assistance from ICARDA and ACSAD, have developed technological packages for
increased productivity in irrigated and high rainfall areas. However, yields
and cropping intensities are still low compared to their potential, and
management practices at the farm level need substantial improvement. Increases
in production can be achieved through increased efficiency in crop and animal
husbandry, reduction of fallow, pest and disease control, improvement in water
use, and use of improved crop varieties. The Government recognizes that, to
realize the full potential of its agricultural resources, and to fully benefit
from its past investments in the sector, it is imperative that the extension
service should be restructured, strengthened and better coordinated with
research organizations. Therefore, having initiated in 1981 a nationwide
program of developing 600 agricultural extension units, the Government is
seeking, through the proposed project, to strengthen qualitatively and
quantitatively the mechanism for making improved technological packages
available to farmers.
3.03     The ongoing extension program has progressed on schedule but  its
effectiveness is still constrained by:



- 13 -
(a)  shortage of trained staff, and organizational weaknesses in terms
of accountability, supervision and subject matter support;
(b)  absence of an efficient and regular two-way flow of information
between the field and organizations responsible for research and
extension planning;
(c)  deficiencies in information material for mass media use; and
d)   shortage of vehicles, basic equipment and materials, and imple-
ments needed for demonstrating new production techniques.
These principal weaknesses in the existing extension system will be addressed
by the proposed project.
3.04     Project Objectives and Scope.  The main objective of the project is
to assist the Government in strengthening the extension organization and thus
promote increases iii agricultural productivity and farmers' income by improving
the efficiency of farming. To that end, the strategy of the proposed project
will include the redefinition of extension activities, taking into account,
inter alia, microregional resource availability, potential and constraints,
and the strengthening of linkages with research.  The extension service will
be restructured, responsibilities clearly defined, and technical support
provided. In addition, the project will aim at improvements in the extension
programming capability and in monitoring and evalua-ing extension activities.
3.05     The scope of the project will cover the following:
(a)  strengthening the capabilities of the extension service by pro-
vriding clear line of responsibility and accountability within
the system, adequate specialist back-up support, rimple extension
equipment, transport facilities, staff training and a limited
number of additional staff;
(b)  strengthening  field  demonstration  activities  by  identifying
region-specific needs, intensifying the program and providing
demonstration equipment and materials;
(c)  strengthening audiovisual and mass media programs by providing
additional equipment, staff, vehicles, and technical assistance
to improve the production of mass media materials and to train
local staff; and
(d)  improving extension program planning, and monitoring and evalua-
tion capabilities by providing staff training and technical
assistance. The latter will include employment of specialists
to assist in extension service planning, extension methodology,
training and introduction of monitoring and evaluation systems
including system analysis and data processing.



- 14 -
3.06     The project will finance the first phase of a national agricultural
extension program, limiting its coverage to irrigated and higher rainfall
areas (over 350 mm p.a.).  These are the areas with the highest agricultural
potential in Syria, for which tested and proven technical packages are already
available.  This will correspond to 450 extension units, and 39 support cen-
ters, to provide supervisory and subject matter support to extension agents.
The Department of Extension, at each of the 14 Mohafaza, and the Directorate
of Extension at Damascus, will also be supported. Given their current poten-
tial for yield increase and economic importance in terms of import substitution
or export expansion, the project will focus primarily on wheat, cotton, veget-
ables and olives, and to a lesser extent on seed legumes, other fruit tree
crops and improved livestock practices, (Appendix 1).
B. Detailed Features
3.07     The project will support two complementary and mutually reinforcing
approaches to agricultural extension and information transfer. The first is
based essentially on personal contact between extension agents and farmers and
on field demonstrations, programmed to better respond to specific local
farmers' needs. Each agricultural agent posted at an exatension unit will be
assigned responsibility over a given area, usually encompassing several
surrounding villages with similar agroecological characteristics and farming
systems. The agents will undertake an intensive schedule of programmed farm
visits, and will be supervised by extension supervisors and trained by SMSs.
Strong links will be established between extension and research, so that
extension staff is adequately supplied with appropriate technology, and
research supported with feedback from the field.
3.08     This  face-to-face extension method will be supplemented by infor-
mation transfer based on the use of mass communication and audiovisual aids.
Little systematic use of these facilities has been made, up to now, in Syria.
Under the proposed project, the Information Section within the Directorate of
Extension will be strengthened. The preparation of audiovisual materials will
be closely coordinated with the research institutes.  Audiovisual aids and
mass media will be used throughout the project area as a complement to direct
contact between extension agents and farmers, and these two approaches will be
integrated to achieve maximum efficiency.
Reorganization of Extension Structure (US$21.4 M)
3.09     The project will introduce a fourth level into the structure of the
extension service-support centers comprising extension supervisory staff and
SMSs.  It will also strengthen the existing structure through the provision of
equipment, vehicles and additional staff.
3.10     Extension Units.  It was agreed that a total of 450 extension units
will be supported under the project and that each unit will be staffed with
1-3 extension agents at the rate of one agent to about 250 farm families in
irrigated areas and one to 500 in rainfed areas with due consideration for the
complexity of the farming system in the area, cropped area, travel distance
and  communication.   To  that  end,  adjustments  are being made  to current



- 15 -
boundaries of existing centers as needed (para. 2.06). A total of about 1,100
extension  agents  will  be  required,  of  whom 826  agricultural  engineering
graduates have already been appointed; the remaining 274 will also be agricul-
tural engineering graduates with rural background expected to be employed by
the third and fourth years of the proposed project  (Annex 2, Table 1).  To
ensure that the needs of the women farmers are properly addressed, a number of
women extension workers will be appointed specially on those areas where women
are  a  significant  portion  of  the  farm  population.   Current  output  of
agricultural graduates is adequate to fill up these posts.
3.11     Under the project the territory of each extension unit will be divided
geographically among the agents who will be responsible for assisting farmers
on key production aspects. During the first year, and assisted by the super-
visor and SMSs at support centers, each agent will carry out a survey of the
local resources,  potential and constraints.   Based on this survey,  and in
close consultation with the research establishment, the supervisor will prepare
the annual work program which will establish priorities for technological pack-
ages and field demonstrations. Attention will be focused on practices likely
to bring the best results, such as seedbed preparation, use of improved seed,
seed treatment, pest control, weeding, efficient fertilizer use and timeliness
of operations, and, in livestock, on better and selective feeding, disease
control and early weaning. The agents, assisted by SMSs and in close consul-
tation with village leaders, will select contact farmers and visit them on a
regular schedule known in advance to other farmers. To ensure that the needs
of the poorer farmers are properly addressed, a suitable number of such farmers
will be selected as contact farmers. The suitability of the identified contact
farmer as a channel for disseminating information will be carefully monitored,
and replacement made when needed. Each contact farmer, who will have a field
demonstration, will gather around him a group of 6-8 neighboring farmers,
increasing it to about 25 by the fifth year. On each regular visit, the exten-
sion agent will visit the contact farmer's fields and discuss and demonstrate
innovations aimed at increasing productivity, check progress in adopting pre-
vious recommendations, and discuss with farmer groups any technical problem
they face.  Under the project, two approaches will be followed; one will be
the designation of fixed contact farmers over the years and the other, a
systematic rotation of contact farmers amongst members of the farming community
after one or two cropping seasons. The opinions and suggestions of the village
leaders, representatives of the Peasant Union and extension agents will be
sought before deciding on the approach to be used in each extension agent's
territory.   In parallel with field demonstrations and regular group visits,
the agent will make individual farm visits, hold field days, conduct farmers'
meetings, and distribute extension publications.  Farmers' meetings will be
organized, in particular, during the time of the year when there is little
agricultural activity, with the help of farmers' cooperatives and the Peasant
Union. Agricultural agents will be administratively attached to the support
centers.  Work schedules of extension agents will be developed by the Directo-
rate of Extension and their counterparts at the Mohafaza level. Work schedule
used for planning purposes is shown in Annex 2, Appendix 1.
3.12     Support Centers.  A total of 39 support centers will be established
under the project at selected locations, each central to about 8-15 extension
units. Space has been made available at 34 extension units, at four Mohafaza
offices, and at one Mantika agricultural office (Mumbej of Aleppo Mohafaza).
Each support center will have 1-2 extension supervisors (one per 15 to 20
extension agents) and 1-3 SMSs dealing with the most important agricultural
activities e.g. field crops, irrigated crops, vegetables, fruit trees, or



- 16 -
animal production. The 39 centers will require 60 supervisors and 62 SMSs.
(Annex 2, Table 1).  These officers will be selected from among the most
experienced staff already working at the various agricultural sections at the
Mantika and Nahia agricultural offices and tr.-nsferred to the extension
service.  No difficulty is anticipated in finding suitable staff  for these
positions, though there will be need for providing them additional training.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that S..Ss and supervisors to be
posted at such centers will be transferred to ;he extension service no later
than June 30, 1986.
3.13     Under the project, extension supervisors will assist  the extension
agents in developing their overall annual work programs-which will be seg-
ments of the Mohafaza annual work program.  They will monitor its implemen-
tation through at least fortnightly visits. Each month, SMSs will also visit
extension agents to assist them with field demonstrations, solve farmers'
technical problems, and provide in-service training.
3.14     Extension Departments  at  the Mohafaza  Level.   Under the project,
staff in the 14 Extension Departments at the Mohafaza level will be increased
by a total of 52 SMSs, and 66 administrative staff, including an assistant to
the chief in each extension department (Annex 2, Table 1). The SMSs will be
selected from the more experienced staff already working at the various
agricultural offices at the Mantika and Nahia levels and transferred to the
extension service. Assurances were obtained from the Government that staff to
be posted as SMSs at Mohafaza level will be transferred to the extension
department no later than June 30, 1986.
3.15     Under the project,  the head of the extension department, with the
assistance of his staff and inputs of extension agents and support center
staff, will translate guidelines and broad technical recommendations received
from the Directorate of Extension into a Mohafaza work program with technolo-
gical packages based on local research, field surveys and experience. The
Field Section of the department will supervise and monitor its implementation
with visits to support centers and extension units. The Information Section
will continue to provide extension publications and assist with the use of
audiovisual aids and mass media. The assistant to the chief of each Extension
Department will be primarily responsible for: (a) identifying training require-
ments at the Mohafaza level; (b) coordinating the courses and training
schedules with the training department; and (c) coordinating all extension
activities with research and other organizations.
3.16     Directorate of Extension at the National Level.  The Directorate of
Extension will be strengthened by establishing a deputy director position and
a separate division in charge of training. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that the Training Division and the position of the Deputy Director
of Extension will be established and staffed no later than June 30, 1986. The
training Division will be staffed with one chief (training coordinator) and
three training officers of whom two are presently handling training but
assigned  to  the Field  Extension  Section.   Also,  to strengthen  the  other
sections, 15 additional staff positions will be established as follows: five
for the Field Section; two for the Information Section; and eight for the
Administration  Section  (Annex 2,  Table 7).   In addition,  the project will
provide for two visits of an internationally recruited extension advisor
(paras. 3.33, 3.34).



- 17 -
3.1.7    The Director of Extension will be responsible for the overall plan-
ning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the extension program.  The
Information Section will continue to prepare technical publications and the
mass media program,  and the Administration  Section  will  keep  records  and
accounts  of  the  proposed  project  and  provide  clerical  assistance  to  the
Directorate.  The Deputy Director will be primarily responsible  for liaison
with other organizations to ensure a two-way flow of information wiLh other
agencies concerned with agricultural development such as research organiza-
tions, specialized agricultural bureaus and CAB. The Training Section will be
responsible for planning and organizing all project related training and
preparing guidelines for the required areas of specialization (para. 3.26).
3.18     The Field Section staff will remain responsible for the implementa-
tion and monitoring  of  the  field  program  through  regular  visits.   Their
function will also include the collation and analysis of field data collected
by the extension service as a basis for preparing relevant technical publica-
tions, developing the overall extension policy and programs, and formulating
the technical recommendations and packages for each Mohafaza.
3.19     Linkages with Research  Critical  to the success  of  the extension
service, and to the impact of research results, will be the close inter-
relationship of the extension service with the research organization.   This
will be developed through an intensive schedule of programmed interactions of
extension and research staff on research farms and farmers' holdings where
verification  trials and field demonstrations will be conducted.   Extension
agents will thus become more acquainted with research developments, and
research staff with the field applications of research findings, as well as
with farmers' problems. In addition, research workers will participate in the
training of the extension staff. in particular the SMSs, and assist the
extension service in the preparation of pamphlets and booklets for mass media
communications.   To ensure these strong linkages, MAAR will institute joint
extension and research working groups with farmers'  participation at head-
quarters and at each Mohafaza, to review the progress and impact of extension,
and the adequacy of technological packages, and identify farmers' problems
requiring to be tackled by research.
3.20     Equipment and vehicles.  To support the extension system, the project
will provide for equipment and vehicles at all levels. The latter will comprise
station wagons, microbuses, pickups and motorcycles. In addition, 14 vehicles
will be assigned to the Mohafaza Departments of Training and 16 to the two
national research directorates. Details of the vehicles and equipment are in
Annex 2, Table 2.
3.21     Incremental  Operating  Costs.   The  organizational  structure  for
extension (paras. 3.09 to 3.19) will require a total of about 1,438 staff of
whom 906 suitably qualified staff is currently available in the project area
(Annex 2, Table 1).   Assurance  was obtained  from Government  that it would
endeavor to keep trained personnel assigned to the Project during the Project
life.   The  project  will  provide  for  incremental  salaries  and  travelling
allowances to permit an expanded program of field visits and for incremental
costs to operate and maintain the vehicles and equipment.   This component
will, however, be fully financed by the Government from its own resources.



- 18 -
Field Demnastrations (US$2.1 milion)
3.22     Field demons.rations will  remain an  important  extension  activity.
Demonstrations will  initially concentrate on the main crops such as wheat,
seed legumes, cotton, olives and vegetables and will expand gradually to
includc other crops such as citrus, maize, apples, grapes and sugar beet and
livestock. Also, as equipment becomes available, field demonstrations on farm
nmechanizaLion will be emphasized.
3.23     The  existing  field  demonstration  techniques  will  be  improved  by
selecting region-specific topics, ensuring that fields are accessible and
representative of the area, and ensuring the presence of contact farmers. The
annual total of demonstrations will gradually increase from the current level
of about 3,000 (or about one per 125 farmers) to about 12,000 (or about one
demonstration per 40 farmers) at full development.  Land, labor and machinery
will be provided by the farmer (:and owner) and the materials (seeds, ferti-
lizer and chemicals) by the extension service to be financed under the project.
Special implements, not widely used at present by farmers, will be provided
under the projcct for demonstration purposes.  These will include seed drills,
fertilizer sprayers, tractor-mounted sprayers, seed cleaners, cultivators,
land levelers,  potato  lifters and beet  planters.   Such  equipment  will  be
assigned to the support centers, and distributed according to cropping pat-
terns and demonstration needs. A detailed list of demonstration equipment is
in Annex 2, Table 2.
Audio Visual AlS and Mass Media (US$2.3 miU)
3.24     The project will assist the Information Section of the Directorate of
Extension in introducing audiovisual materials and mass commuinication methods
as a means of dissemination of technological packages. This section will be
responsible for (i) assembling a library of existing information from Syria
and abroad of interest to extension staff and abstracting and disseminating
it; (ii) preparing and producing audiovisual aids (technical bulletins,
slides, movies, video films, etc.) for use by extension agents and by SMSs;
and (iii) coordinating the use of mass media for general information to
farmers,  particularly of radio and television broadcasts.  To support these
functions, the project will provide for six staff/months (s/m) of consultancy
in  audiovisual  media  (paras.  3.33  and  3.34).   Materials  for  audiovisual
programs will be carefully selected, produced and edited in coordination with
research institutes to emphasize the most economical extension recommendations
and to ensure suitability for farmer assimilation.
3.25     The project  will  also  provide  for a  complete  professional  video
recording system including video camera, video cassette recorder and copier.
Also, it will provide video tapes, video T.V. sets, 35 mm cameras. slide
projectors, loud speakers and materials at the Mohafaza, support center and
extension  unit  levels.   A  detailed  list  of  equipment  is  presented  in
Annex 2, Table 2.
Training (US$1.9 milion)
3.26     The project will provide various types of prerequisite training and
in-service training. The training courses for the extension staff will cover
(a) extension methodology and conmunication skills; (b) project orientation
and  project  related  technology;  (c) specialized  subjects;  (d) extension



- 19 -
supervision management and planning; (e) mass media production; and (f) in-
service training.  The Chief of the Training Division at the Directolate of
Extension and the assistants to the chiefs of the Extension Department at the
Mohafaza level will, In collaboration with the Directorate of Agricultural
Training, finalize training guidelines, curricula and schedule of the training
program. I/ In this task, he will be assisted by the training advisor currently
employed under the UNDP project No. SYR/83/002/C/0l/12 (para. 2.13). Assurances
were obtained from the Government that (i) a detailed training plan, including
the curricula for all project related training, will be finalized and sent to
the Bank for review no later than April 30, 1986, and (ii) it will arrange for
any necessary supplementary employment compensation to participants involved
in that training program.
3.27     Extension Methodology  and  Communication  Skills.   Since  1981,  the
Directorate of Extension, in collaboration with the Directorate of Agricul-
tural Training and assisted by UNDP and FAO, has been providing training in
extension methodology  and  communication  skills as  a prerequisite  for ..l
extension technical staff at the Chamia Training Center.  The course is of
eight weeks duration and focuses on comwunication techniques, farmer surveys,
technology  transfer, and the use of  audiovisual  aids.   Through  1984,  360
extension staff have been trained and another 100 are expected to be trained
during the first half of 1985.  The remaining 900 extension staff, required
for project activities, will be trained during the project period, phased as
indicated  in Annex 2, Table 3.  Through  1986,  the cost  of  the  training,
including the advisor, will be financed by the ongoing UNDP project
(para. 2.13), and from 1987 through mid-1989 under the proposed project.
Beginning 1986, the training capacity of the Chamia Training Center will be
expanded from an annual  output  of  180  to  270.   To  that  end,  additional
facilities will be completed and a Director to the Chamia Training Center
appointed by the end of 1985.
3.28     Project  Orientation  and  Project  Related  Technoloy.   Training  in
project orientation and project related technology will be given to extension
agents by the Mohafaza Department of Training with the assistance of senior
extension staff and staff from research organizations and specialized bureaus.
It will consist of a series of one to two week courses to be conducted at
appropriate times during the staff's first-year assignment. The department of
extension in each Mohafaza, through its deputy chief, will program and coor-
dinate  these courses with the Department of Training.  Project orientation
courses will focus on the objectives and concepts of the proposed extension
system. Also a short course in vehicle and motorcycle operations and main-
tenance will b. offered to all staff.
1/ Draft terms of reference for specialized subjects are available in the
Project File.



- 20 -
3.29     Specialized Subjects.  About 160 staff will be trained in technical
subjects related to the technological packages specialized as follows: field
crops (35); tree crops (25); vegetables (25); irrigated agriculture (35);
mechanization (20); and animal husbandry (20). The courses will be of about
five months duration, and given at the national level by the Agricultural
Research Institute, the Aleppo Mechanization Institute and ACSAD and ICARDA.
These institutes will be assisted by other specialized directorates and/or
bureaus. Particulars of the phasing of the training and the lead institutions
are in Annex 2 Table 5.
3.30     Extension  Supervision,  Management  and  Planning.    Training   in
extension planning, management and supervision will be given to extension
supervisors and other key staff at the support centers, Mohafaza and national
levels. These programs will consist of workshops and seminars with focus on
program planning, data processing, monitoring and evaluation. They will be
given by the Director of Extension, assisted by key senior extension staff;
the extension advisor provided under the ongoing UNDP project (para. 2.08);
and the short-term consaltants on monitoring and evaluation proposed under the
project (para. 3.34). Also, a three- to four-month English language course
will be offered to about 15 managerial staff. Fellowships (20 staff-months)
fzr short term foreign training and study tours will also be provided, for
enabling key managerial staff to visit successful extension programs in other
countries including Turkey, India and Pakistan.
3.31     Mass Media Production.  Training in mass media production will be
given to key staff in the Information Section of the Directorate of Extension.
This will include production and editing of video and audio tapes on extension
activities for radio and T.V. broadcasting. Training will be provided by the
mass media communication specialist to be hired under the project (para. 3.34).
3.32     In-service Training.  After the initial orientation period, extension
agents will receive regular fortnightly in-service training on topical
subjects related to the following month's work program. This will be given by
the extension supervisors and SMSs at the support center level. Additional
assistance will be enlisted as needed from other sources such as research
institutions,  the CAB,  the specific  crop bureaus and CUP.  Also, regular
(seasonal) workshops will be organized in coordination with the research
institutions for keeping SMSs abreasL of agricultural research developments.
Technieal Assistance (US$0.9 million)
3.33     The project will proviee  for 64 staff/months  (s/m) of technical
assistance to the Directorate of Exteision as follows: one extension training
advisor,  30  s/m  (para. 3.27),  one  extension  planning  advisor,  6  s/m
(para. 3.16) and 28 s/m of short-term consultancy in extension monitoring,
evaluation and system analysis, 22 s/m, and short-term consultancy in mass
media communication skills, 6 s/m (para. 3.24). Assurances were obtained from
the Government that internationally recruited experts will be appointed in
accordance with World Bank guidelines under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  In addition, and in support of the proposed project, from July
1985 through December 1986, a total of 36 s/m of technical assistance will be
provided under the ongoing UNDP project as follows: one training advisor, 18
s/m (para. 2.13), and one extension planning advisor, 18 s/m (para. 2.08).



- 21 - 
3.34     The extension training advisor to be financed under the project will
be hired no later than January 1, 1987 to follow the UNDP financed expert
(para. 3.33) and will continue to assist the Training Section of the
Directorate of Extension in planning, organizing, developing curricula and
supervising ongoing extension training activities.  Similarly,  the extension
planning advisor to be hired no later than September 1, 1988, for two short
visits will continue to assist the Director of Extension in the overall
planning, organization and supervision of the extension service. The 22 s/m
of short-term consultant services for extension monitoring and evaluation to
be hired not later than July 1, 1986, will represent a team of one agricul-
tural economist (10 s/m), one extension specialist (3 s/m) and one agronomist
(8 s/m). The team will assist the Directorate of Extension in establishing a
system to monitor and evaluate the implementation and impact of the extension
system and the technology that will be introduced under the proposed project
(para. 3.35). The mass media production consultant to be hired not later than
July 1, 1986, will assist the Information Section of the Directorate of
Extension in the production and editing of video materials and other audio
visual aids. Terms of reference of the required specialists are in Annex 3.
C. MonitoriWL Evaluation and Reporting
3.35     The Directorate  of  Extension, through its Field Section, will be
responsible for monitoring overall project implementation based on data
submitted by each Mohafaza Department of Extension. Two types of monitoring
are envisaged under the project:  (a) monitoring, in physical and financial
terms, of "project inputs" such as staff recruitments, procurement, training,
farmers visits, demonstration activities, etc., against the work programs to
be  developed  each  year   (project  management  information  system);  and
(b) monitoring of the "project outputs", that is, impact of the extension
system in terms of adoption of specific recommendations by farmers (project
benefit monitoring).   For "project  inputs" monitoring,  each Mohafaza will
submit quarterly and annual reports  to the Directorate of Extension.   The
Field Section within the Directorate of Extension will collate and summarize
the information of the different Mohafaza into quarterly and annual progress
reports for consideration by the Director of Extension.   Such reports will
indicate both financial and physical progress towards quarterly and annual
plan targets as specified in the annual work programs (paras. 3.11, 3.13 and
3.15, and 4.07). For "project outputs" monitoring, each Mohafaza Department
of Extension will report at least annually on a set of indicators which will
measure  progress  towards  specific  objectives.   The  Field  Section of  the
Directorate of Extension will collate and summarize the information of the
different Mohafaza and will prepare annual progress reports in which it will
highlight achievements, problems and recommended actions for consideration by
the Directorate of Extension.  These annual reports will be submitted to the
Bank for review and comments by March 31, each year.   In addition,  and to
complement the information on project output monitoring, the Field Section
assisted by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit recently established under the
Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2124-SYR) will
undertake simple adoption rate surveys for assessing the effects of the
project on the farming community.  At the Mohafaza level, the local Field
Section of the Department of Extension will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the project.  Assisted by staff in the Planning and Statistics
Department, they will undertake yield surveys on a restricted number of crops
in order to assess the impact of the technological packages disseminated under
the project. Yield surveys will also be supplemented by specific case studies



- 22 -
designed to investigate problems experienced during project implementation.
The Field Section at the national level will maintain data obtained over time
from adoption rate and yield surveys, and special studies as the basis for
evaluating the benefits derived by farmers from the technological packages.
The reporting system at national level will be fully computerized.
3.36     At the commencement of the project,  the monitoring and evaluation
system will be established including preparation of appropriate forms,
collection of baseline  data and  organized data flow.   Baseline data will
include stratification of farmers by farming system, and detailed summary of
resources, potential and constraints, and will be utilized by the extension
service in devising packages so as to maximize the impact of extension messages
(para. 3.11).  A midterm in-depth analysis of the impact of the extension
activities including the effectiveness of extension/research linkages and
adequacy of the research programs will be carried out at the end of the third
year of the project and an ex-post evaluation after completion of the
project.   The above activities will be carried out by the Directorate of
Extension assisted by internationally recruited consultants (para. 3.34).
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it will carry out a midterm
in-depth analysis of the project by June 30, 1988, and that it will be
submitted to the Bank for review not later than December 31, 1988.
D. Eironmentl Impact
3.3Y    The proposed project will lead to increased use of agrochemicals,
e.g., insecticides, herbicides and pesticides. This, however, is not expected
to have a negative environmental impact as currently, MAAR, through its Plant
Protection Directorate, has been carrying out investigations to identify, to
the extent possible, pesticides which are both effective and safe without
resorting to the use of highly toxic chemicals.  In addition, the extension
service will, through its contacts with farmers, stress the hazardous nature
of these chemicals and advise on their transportation, and use and disposal of
empty containers.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Costs
4.01     Total project costs (net of taxes and duties) are estimated at SL
133.5 million (US$33.8 million), with a foreign exchange component of about
44%.  Taxes and duties are estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent.   The base
cost represents the estimated cost of investment and initial operation, in-
cluding incremental staff salaries during the four-year (Oct. 1985-Sept. 1989)
project implementation period in March 1985 constant prices; cost of imported
vehicles and equipment reflect current international prices, and those of
internationally recruited experts reflect the cost of recent contracts for
similar assignments in the country. Physical contingencies amounting to six
percent of total base costs are included, and price contingencies, between
May 1985 and the end of the project implementation period, are estimated at
21% of base costs.  Price contingencies have been applied to both local and
foreign costs at the following annual rates: 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986, and
8% for 1987-1989.  These rates, which are below the expected rates of cost
increases in the national economy, reflect the expected continued government
control of public sector related local costs, in particular salary levels.
Table 4.1 below presents a summary of cost estimates detailed in Annex 2,
Tables 5, 6 and 7.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign   Total Base
S-L million--             --US$ million           Cost
Reorganization
of Extension            48.9    35.0    83.9       12.4      8.9     21.3   75
Field Demonstration       4.4     4.0      8.4       1.1      1.0      2.1    7
Mass Media                4.5     5.0      9.5        1.1     1.2       2.3    8
Technical Assistance      0.5     3.2      3.8       0.1      0.8      0.9   -
Training                  6.8     0.3      7.1       1.8      0.1      1.9   10
Base Cost                65.1    47.6   112.7       16.5    12.0      28.5  100
Physical Contingencies   3.9      2.7      6.6       1.0      0.7      1.7    6
Price Contingencies      15.3     8.9    24.2        3.8      2.3      6.1   21
Total Project            84.3    59.2   143.5       21.3    15.0      36.3  127
B. Project Fnancng
4.02     The  proposed  Bank  loan of US$7.5 million equivalent will finance
approximately 22% of project costs net of taxes and duties, equivalent to 50%



- 24 -
of foreign exchange costs.  IFAD is expected to extend a loan of SDR 7.55
million (US$7.5 million), to be administered by the Bank, to finance the
remainder of the foreign exchange  cost.   The  Government  will  contribute
US$21.3 million equivalent (including taxes and duties).  In the event that
IFAD makes the loan commitment but does not have the funds available at the
time of Bank loan effectiveness, the Bank will initially disburse the amount
corresponding to IFAD's share. The proposed financing plan is summarized in
Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Bank
Government                   Contribution
Total Cost  of Syria       IFAD    Bank       %
Equipment, Vehicles
& Materials                 17.0         3.8         6.60    6.60    39
Tech. Assistance               1.1          -          0.55    0.55    50
Training                       2.4         1.7         0.35    0.35    15
Incremental
Operating Costs             15.8        15.8          -        -       0
Total                       36.3        21.3          7.50    7.50    21
As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan, the Government will
be required to submit to the Bank, satisfactory evidence that the execution
and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of the IFAD Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized and ratified by all necessary Government actions, and all
other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the said Loan have been
fulfilled.
4.03     In order to facilitate the Government in incurring expenditures reim-
bursable under the Bank and IFAD loans, both the Bank and IFAD will finance
separate Special Accounts to be established at the Central Bank. An amount of
US$0.25 million from the Bank and US$0.25 million from IFAD equivalent to about
four months' expenditures on items to be procured under international shopping
or limited international tendering will be deposited in each of these accounts
upon loan effectiveness.   The Government will use  these  funds  to effect
payments to suppliers for eligible goods and services. Thereafter, the Bank
and IFAD will replenish the account out of the proceeds of the loans upon
receipt of evidence of disbursements made from the Special Account for agreed
expenditures.
C. Procurement
4.04     The project's procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.03
below:



- 25 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ milion)
Procurement Methods
Project Elements              ICB     LIB         IS       Other      Total /a
Equipment, Vehicles &         12.7    3.6         0.7         -          17.0
Materials                   (5.0)  (1.3)       (0.3)       (-)         (6.6)
Technical Assistance &          -     1.9          -         1.6          3.5
Training                     (-)   (0.9)        (-)        (-)         (0.9)
Incremental
Operating Costs               -      -           -        15.8         15.8
Total                      12.7    5.5        0.7        17.4         36.3
(Bank financed)            (5.0)  (2.2)      (0.3)        (-)         (7.5)
/a Total including price and physical contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
4.05     Equipment, Vehicles and Materials (US$17.0 million, including contin-
gencies). These include extension, demonstration and office equipment; demon-
stration material; teaching aids; vehicles; farm machinery, audiovisual aids;
and mass media equipment. The Directorate of Extension will group, to the
extent possible, orders for vehicles and equipment in packages of US$100,000
equivalent, or more, and submit them to International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts for exten-
sion training, office and teaching equipment, materials and farm machinery
estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent or more per contract and up to
US$100,000 per contract and not exceeding US$3.6 million in the aggregate will
be procured by Limited International Bidding (LIB) on the basis of comparing
and evaluating bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers.
Contracts for small items (mainly agricultural and teaching tools and
materials) estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract and not
exceeding US$0.7 million in the aggregate will be procured by International
Shopping (IS) on the basis of comparing price quotations solicited from at
least three qualified suppliers.
4.06     Services.  The project will finance a total of 64 s/m of consultant
services, which are estimated to cost US$1.1 million.  Recruitment of consul-
tants, in all cases, will be carried out under the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants dated August 1981. In addition, the project will finance
US$2.4 million for project-related training to be provided by local and inter-
national organizations.



- 26 -
D. hnplementation Schedule
4.07     The  project will be  implemented over  a  four-year  period  by  the
Directorate of Extension, an existing organization which already has the basic
facilities and staff in place (paras 2.06 and 2.08).  SMSs and supervisory
staff will be selected from among the most experienced staff already working
at various agricultural offices and transferred to the Directorate of
Extension by June 30, 1986 (paras 3.12 and 3.14). Some incremental staff will
be recruited during the first year of the project but most of them will be
recruited during the third and fourth years of the project. About 50S of the
existing staff have already received extension methodology training-considered
to be prerequisite for extension activities, and by mid 1989 all project staff
will have had received such training. Therefore, project implementation has
been designed on a four-year basis. Based on Government's progress in the
construction and staffing of the extension units and in the extension
methodology training (paras. 2.06 and 2.08), the proposed project's implemen-
tation program is realistic.  Staff training will take place over the whole
project life. Curricula for all project related training have been drafted
and  it will be finalized by April 30, 1986 (para 3.26).   Procurement of
equipment and vehicles will have two deliveries, one towards the beginning of
the second year and the other, one year later. Tender documents for ICB and
LIB procurement were finalized by MAAR on May 1985, and reviewed by the Bank
in June 1985. Advertisement of ICB procurement is expected to take place in
September 1985. Recruitment of experts will take place over the project life
with short-term consultants recruited over the second, third and fourth years.
and training expert over the last  two years.   Terms of Reference for all
required  consultants have already been prepared.   Extension activities and
incremental operating costs are expected to have an upward trend during the
project life and to stabilize in 1989.  Assurances were obtained from the
Government that  the project  will  be  implemented  in  conformity  with  the
schedule  agreed  upon  during  tLegotiations.   By  September  each  year,  the
department of extension at each Mohafaza will prepare a detailed annual work
program for the following year specifying, for each quarter, the type of
extension activities to be carried out including budgetary requirements. The
work program will be supported with appropriate background data including
estimates of required manpower, demonstration activities, required materials,
staff training and extension activities.  The Directorate of Extension will
review tba Mohafaza annual work program and will consolidate them into the
overall Extension Work Program not later than October 1 each year. By October
31 of each year, the Directorate of Extension will submit  to the Bank the
annual Extension Work Program for the following year. This program will be
the basis for project monitoring at Mohafaza and national levels (para. 3.35).
E. Disbursement
4.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$7.5 million equivalent and IFAD loan of
SDR 7.55 million (US$7.5 million) equivalent will extend over five years.
Disbursements between the Bank and the Fund loans for all categories will be
on a 50:50 ratio. Bank loan will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  vehicles, equipments and materials, 50% of foreign expenditure
an directly imported goods, or 37.5Z of local expenditures for
goods procured locally;
(b) consultancy services, study tours, and local and foreign tech-
nical training on specialized subjects, 50S of total cost.



- 27 -
Disbursements for vehicles and equipment under category (a) and for items
under category (b) for contracts valued at US$10,000 equivalent and more will
be fully documented.  Disbursements for materials under category (a) and for
contracts valued at no more than US$10,000 equivalent under categories (a) and
(b) will be made against statements of expenditures-the documentation of
which will be audited and retained for review by Bank missions. Disbursements
under the loan will be completed by October 1990, or about one year after
project   completion.    The   proposed   schedule   features   an   accelerated
disbursement period of five years, which is considerably shorter than the
country  profile  of  about  nine  years.   However,  the  livestock  project,
implemented by HAAR, the same institution to implement this project was fully
disbursed in six and one half years.   Even  the Lower  Euphrates  Drainage
project which had many initial implementation difficulties is not expected to
take more  than  6 years  to  disburse.   The  considerations  supporting  the
proposed schedule are that (a) the project will be implemented by MAAR which
has experience of ICB tendering procedures; (b) tender documents have been
finalized and announcement is expected shortly; and (c) most of the Bank loan
will be used for procurement of equipment and vehicles, items which are
generally disbursed rapidly.   Table 4.4 summarizes the procurement schedule
detailed in Annex 2, Table 8.
Table 4.4: DISBURSEME{T SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
- - - --(US$ Million)--  --  
Annual          0.25       0.45       2.20      2.70       1.90
Cumulative      0.25       0.70       2.90      5.60       7.50
F. Accounts and Audits
4.09     Separate project accounts will be maintained by each of the Depart-
ments of Agriculture at the Mohafaza level. These accounts will be consoli-
dated by the Directorate of Extension.  The Directorate of Extension will
maintain a separate account of all transactions passing through the Special
Account (para. 4.03) and will make this available to the Bank missions for
review.  Project accounts will be audited annually.  The audit report will
include, inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by the Bank
and IFAD against statements of expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided. Assurances were obtained from the Government that
Ci) the Directorate of Extension at Damascus will maintain and consolidate
project accounts; and (ii) project accounts will be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and audit accounts will be sub-
mitted to the Bank within nine months of the closing of each fiscal year.
G. Proje&t Organization and Mlanagement
4.10     The overall responsibility for project implementation will rest with
NAAR.  The specific responsibility will be entrusted to the Directorate of
Extension and its staff- in the 14 Mohafaza. MAAR's Director of Extension will
be the project manager (PM), assisted by his staff. The PM will be responsible
for: (a) preparation and implementation of project work programs; (b) recruit-
ment of national staff; (c) coordination of preparation of documents for the
procurement of goods and services; (d) organization of training to be provided



- 28 -
under the project; (e) preparation and submitting to the Bank project reports
and records; (f) preparation of project accounts; (g) project monitoring; and
(h) recruiting international consultants to assist in extension planning and
training, and in developing, monitoring progress and carrying out a midterm
and ex-post evaluation of the project. MAAR will institute joint research and
extension working groups with farmers' participation at headquarters and at
each Mohafaza (para. 3.19).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Budgetar-y hIpact
5.01     In Syria, expenditure by MAAR on Agricultural Extension, in relation
to the agricultural GDP, is about 0.2%.l/ The project will make maximum use
of existing staff within and outside MAAR and therefore minimize the need for
additional staffing. However, additional costs, in terms of transport expen-
ditures, materials and training, will increase Government's recurrent expendi-
ture on agriculture excension by about 802 of its current level-less than 3%
of MAARs total consolidated budget. This will bring the expenditures on agri-
cultural extension to abodt 0.36% of agricultural GDP.
B. Benefits
5.02     Although generally constrained by inadequate and irregular rainfall,
the agricultural sector in Syria holds considerable potential for increasing
efficiency and production. This will come from increasing cropping intensity
in irrigated areas to more than one crop a year, and by severely reducing
fallow land in higher rainfall areas. In addition, the scope for improvements
in cultural  practices is large.   Based on the research results of the two
national  and  two  international  research  organizations  in  the  country
(para. 2.03) and upon farm results, financially attractive technological
packages have been developed for a number of the principal crops and for some
livestock activities.   On this basis, and in the expectation of continued
generation of technological packages by the research organizations, the
proposed extension service can be expected to function effectively.
5.03     The messages to be conveyed by the extension agents will be simple
and concentrate on practices evoking a quick and profitable response.  Such
packages will include:   (a) improved cultural practices;  (b) more efficient
irrigation methods; (c) improved varieties and better land preparation and
planting techniques; (d) use of more fertilizer and pesticides and better
application techniques (time and method); and (e) disease free seedling,
1/ During 1970-1980, expenditures on agricultural extension for middle-income
developing countries accounted for about 0.9% of their GDP, and for low
income developing countries, for about 0.42.  "Investing in Agricultural
Supply:   The  Determinants   of  Agricultural   Research  and  Extension
Investments" by M. Ann Judd, James K. Boyce, Robert E. Evenson.



- 29 -
proper spacing,  planting and pruning techniques for orchards.   Depending on
the agroecological zones, six different cropping systems with a set of
technological packages have been identified.  These packages will be further
refined based on the analysis of the initial survey and on field demonstra-
tions.  The project is designed to benefit those farmers whose productivity is
lowest because the technological packages to be disseminated first are those
already being used by progressive farmers. The simplest messages concentrating
on the use of improved varieties and cultural practices, involving little or
no  additional  cash  inputs,  will  be  disseminated  first.   Those  requiring
additional levels of cash inputs will be introduced gradually thereafter.
5.04     The  proposed  project  will  serve  a  total  of  about  380,000  farm
families (or about 80% of the agricultural farm population) having about 0.6
million ha of irrigated and 1.3 million ha of higher rainfall crop land.
Families from irrigated areas located in lower rainfall zones (less than
350 mm per annum) also hold about 0.5 million ha of low intensity cropped
and/or grazing land.  The predominant crops in the proposed project area are
cereals, fruit trees, industrial crops, seed legumes, and vegetables; about
140,000 ha are left fallow.  Also, there are about 3.5 million sheep, 0.75
million cattle and 0.5 million goats.   By the end of 1995,  about 216,000
farmers will be contacted personally (about 57% of total farmers); of those
contacted and reached through mass media communication, about 157,000 farm
families (about 40X of total farmers) are expected to have adopted, at least
partially, the improved practices. Details on number of farms contacted and
expected adoption rates are presented in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.  The finan-
cial impact of the adoption of the recommended packages have been estimated in
two ways-firstly, on a per crop budget in terms of return per man day for the
labor involved in using each package; and, secondly, on a per farm budget in
terms of net farm income (Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4). The results show that,
the proposed packages will yield returns to labor/day higher than current wage
rates, despite some variations among crops. These range from about LS 340 per
labor/day for HYV wheat to about LS 88 per labor/day for cotton, compared to a
wage rate of LS 60 during peak periods. This will indicate that where neces-
sary, farmers will be prepared to hire labor to carry out the recommended
practices and, hence, the project will also benefit landLes labor.
5.05     In the past, agricultural development strategy in Syria has aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through large capital-intensive, long
gestation investments in irrigation projects and improvements in the quantity
and quality of inputs.  The proposed project is designed to support the above
mentioned investments and to have a catalytic role in bringing about the
desired benefits.   Therefore,  to estimate the benefits  accruing  solely  to
extension is difficult and no attempt was made to calculate an economic rate
of return for the project. There is, however, good evidence that improvements
in the efficient utilization of available resources to be brought about by the
project, will generate high returns.   Calculations  indicate  that an annual
increase of 0.1% in total agricultural producti-n, over a period of four
years, will suffice to cover the LS 67 million capital investment costs
proposed under the project: it is expected that actual increase will exceed
this small proportion.



- 30 -
C. Risks
5.06     The most significant project risk lies in the fact that the effective-
ness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient
organization and management of extension staff as well as on farmer response.
The availability of immediately applicable, financially attractive technologi-
cal packages, and the Government's commitment to the introduction of an exten-
sion system with more intensive and better quality extension techniques are
expected to minimize such risk. Furthermore, the base line survey to be under-
taken under the project will permit the extension service to focus more closely
upon specific needs of the various categories of farmers in each set of
agroclimatic conditions.
5.07     The proposed project will deal with irrigated as well as rainfed
agriculture.   In the latter, due to uneven rainfall,  there is a  somewhat
higher degree of risk that farmers might not adopt the recommended techniques.
There are, however, a significant number of improved practices and research
findings suitable for dissemination to rainfed farmers which can reduce this
risk.   These  practices  will  include,  among  others,  split  application  of
nitrogenous fertilizer, improved seed bed preparation; and improved weed
control.



- 31 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)    the extension agents to be assigned to the project area will be
suitable agricultural engineers appointed at a rate of one agent
to about 250 farm families in irrigated areas and one to 500 in
rainfed areas (para. 3.10);
(b)    the support centers will be established and the required number
of supervisors and SMSs will be selected from the most
experienced staff in other Agricultural Departments and be
transferred to the extension departments at the Mohafaza and
support center units no later than June 30, 1986 (paras. 3.12,
3.14);
(c)    the Training Divisionand the position of the Deputy Director at
national level will be established and staffed no later than
June 30, 1986 (para. 3.16);
(d)    it will  endeavor  to keep  trained personnel  assigned  to the
project during the project life (para 3.21);
(e)    the overall program and curricula of project-related training
will be comp'leted and sent to the Bank for review, no later than
April 30, 1986 (para. 3.26);
(f)    it  will  arrange  for  any  necessary  supplementary  employment
compensation to participants of the training program (3.26);
(g)    expatriate experts will be appointed in accordance with World
Bank guidelines under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.33);
(h)    it will carry out a midterm in-depth analysis of the project by
June 30, 1988, and will submit the analysis to the Bank for
review not later than December 31, 1988 (para. 3.36);
(i)    the project will be implemented in conformity with the schedule
agreed upon during negotiations (para. 4.07); and
(j)    the Directorate of  Extension at  Damascus  will  maintain  and
consolidate project accounts; and project accounts will be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank with audit account be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the closing of each fiscal year (para.4.09).
6.02     As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government will be required
to submit to the Bank satisfactory evidence that the execution and delivery on
behalf of the Borrower of the IFAD Loan Agreement has been duly authorized and
ratified by necessary Government action, and all other conditions precedent to
effectiveness of the said Loan have been fulfilled (para. 4.02).



- 32 -
6.03     With the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank loan in
the equivalent amount of US$7.5 willion for 15 years, including three years of
grace, at  the standard variable  interest rate.   The Borrower will  be  the
Syrian Arab Republic.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL  AGKICULTURAL  EXIENS ION
Indic-es of Agricultural Production, 1270. 19754,978-83
(1980 - lOG)
Croup                  Weight        19J0        1975       1978       1979       198QL       1981       1982        1983
Crop.:                  123           40          12         10          71        100         100        100         101
Ce real               200-         -i-         63          96        -2          100         92          64          Z0
Dry Legumes            1           Sl         10          el         45         lnO          75         62         of
Vegetables            200           25         11         103         16         11W         114        III         1ll
lnduutrlal Crops   107             95         10         a3          95         I0n        102         119        143
Fruits                 65           36         61         101         13         100         93         125         99
Others                 14           31         66          SI         94         100        106         116         114
Livestocks              217           56         62          82         so         I00         121        128         130
Milk                                 F                                           300 Ii- SS  IIS  8--  IUO  114  II J1T
Neat                  101           P.         75          714             l    tno         133         142         141
Eggs                   35           20         48          92         99         100        114         124        128
Vool nd Flber          10           19         66          SI         92         100         120        129         I"1
Other                   5           31         4S          94         17         to0         as          82         106
Overall Index         1.oon           4S          69         86          16        100         los         Jo         1C9
Soureos  Central Bureau of Statistics
I-dI
m
~-   -



SYRIAN ARAB REPUaLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Area. Production and Yields of Malor Crons in Syria 1963. 1977. 1280. 1981. 19d2
Yield
Afaft                             _Frnduattan -ns or Na
1963       1977     l98O        1981       1982       1963      1977      1980      1981       1982      1963 1977  1980-1982
---------------- (000 Hectares ------------   ---------------- (ooo Tonsi ----------------
1. Cereals and Leaumes
Wheat                                        1559        1528      1449       1255      1222        1]]0     1217       2226      2087       1556       0.7   0.80       1.5
Barley                                        804        1021      1210       1347      1586         784      337       1587      1406       661        1.0   0.3       0.9
Lentil                                         75         178        85         72        58          59      117         83        61         53       0.8   0.7       0.9
Chickpeas                                      31          41        91         8S         56         17       25         73        64         37       0.5   0.6       0.8
Dry Broad Bean                                  10          8          7         8         8          11       13         13        14         14       1.1    1.9      1.8
Ory Haricot Bean                                 2          6          7         6         6           1       11         12        11         12       0.9    1.8      1.8
Mai2e                                          NA          23        23         21         22         NA       59         48        46         49       -      2.6      2.2
2. Veretables
Tomato                                         24          33        35         40        36         166      454        644       722        790       6.9  13.8      19.4
Cauliflower & Cabbage                            -          6          6         7          7          -      165        220       184        183       -    27.5      29.4
Cucumber                                        8          19        25         23        25          39      178        274       272        282       4.9   9.4      11.3
Eggplant                                        4           6          9         9         9          36      114        184      l18         170       9.0  19.0    20.0
Broad tean                                       2          7          8         9         10         23       52         68        70         81      11.5   7.4       8.1 
Green Bean                                       1          I          1         2          1          7         5         8         6          8       7.0   5.0       5.0       e.
Ory Onion                                        5          9          9         9         10         36      162        151       175        187       7.2  18.0      18 3
Water Melon                                     70        a8         100       103        101        307      717        906       969        869       4.4   8.2       9.0
Potato                                          4          13         19        22        17          32      164        292       311        279       8.0  12.6      15.2
3. Fruits & Nuts
Olive                                         111         228       249        258       266          68      175        392       207        471       0.6   n.8        1.4
Grape                                          70          94        99        100       101         159      353      .356        409        423       2.3    '.8      4.0
Apple                                            7         19        24         25        26          28       61         89       104        139       4.0   3.2       4.4
Apricot                                         9          12         13        13         13         28       32         48        49         81       3.1    2.7      4.6
Peach, Plum b Cherry                             4         14         17        18         19          9       55         73        74        102       2.2   3.9       4.6
Citrus                                           1          6          7         8          9          5        13        66        73         82       5.0   2.2       9.2
Almond                                           2          8         19        21         19          2        16        11         8          9       1.0   2.0       0.5
Pistachio                                       5          13         19        22        24           1        5          8         9          8       0.2   0.4       0.4
4.  Industrial Croos
Cotton Seed                                   293         187        139       143      18          410      395        323       356        422       1.4   2.11       2.5
Sugarbeet                                        4         12        22         22        39          87      273        504       564        860      21.8  22.75   26.4
Tobacco                                          1         15         13        13         14          1        12        14        12         14       1.0   0.8        1.0
1t



SYRrAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Official Procurement Prices I?of Selected Crops 1975. 1978 throuah 1984
(LS per ton)
X Change
1975     1978       1979        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984      1984-1975
Wheat
Soft                          500       640.       620         700       950       1190       1230       1230         146
Ourum                         520       690        700         800      1050       1320       1380       1380         165
Barley
Black                         400       S00        500         570       720        800        820        820         105
White                         410       510        510         570       720        800        820        820         100
Lentils
Red                          1150       800        800        1100      1200       1510       1600       1600          39
White                        12S0       850        850        1350      1900       2250       2500       2500         100                           I
Seed Cotton I/                    1350      1830       1880       2250      3200       3850       3900       3900         189                           V
Sugarbeet
Autumn                        125       138        135         165       220        290        310        310         148
Summer                        140       145        150         175       220        290        310        310         121
Haile                               NA       800        800         850     1450       1550       1700       1700         113 I/
Source:    Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.
1/    Prices announced before planting season.  Bonuses are paid to farmers for early delivery to
government centers and for produce delivered by cooperatives.
2/    Average for all grades; premiums and discounts are applied for qua1ity: humidity. etc.             _ _
1/    Percent change calculated between 1984 and 1978.



SYRIA ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
OFFICIAL PROCURltENt PRICES AND INTERRNATIONAL PRICES or SILECTEn CROPS, 1978-84
(US $/To-, Fob) 1/
Wheat (soft)                 maize                     Cotton 2/       Sugarbeets          SgAsr (refined) 3/
Year    Syria    Internet.         Syria    Internet.        Syria   Internet.        Syria    1IS     Syria    Internet.
1978       177        135            203       101           1,219      1,570          36        25     208          182
1979       177        172            203       116           1,252      1,690          46        34     218          223
1980       177       191             215       125           1,499      2,050          56       47      22R         642
1981      171        196             266       131           1,545      1,850          53       29      225          384
1982      218         167            284       109           1,859      1,600          57        35     229          196
1983       226        170            312       136           1,931      1,850          61        35     223          120
1984       226       170             312       138           1,931      1,790          61        37     233          120
Sources:  For Syrian Prices - Central Bureau of Statistics
For International Prices - 1RD Cow_odity Trade and Price Trade, 1983-84 Edition, and estimates of
Cowodities Division.
1/  Syrian Prices are converted to , usilng official exchsnge rete of SL 3.95/US$, from 1978 thru 1980 and the
parallel omrket rate of SL5.45/t in 1981-84.
2/ Ginned, A ginning rate of 38% is assumed. International prlce in Cif N. European.
3/   Assuming an extraction rate of 13S per ton of augarbeets, And t172/ton cost of processing to produce a ton
of refined sugar; the cost of processing is baeed on the 1980-82 US averege. International prices of rav sugar
have been increered by t10/ton to present prices of refined auger.
IH 



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Recommended Extension Packages
1.       Wheat.  Use of high yielding varieties  (improved Hurani,  Mexipak,
Jori and Pavon); early autumn plowing (before first rain) especially under
rainfed conditions; November planting; fertilizer applications of about 120
kg/ha N and 80 kg/ha P20s for irrigated and high rainfall areas (more than
500 mm) and 80 kg/ha N and 50 kg/ha PzOs for medium rainfall areas (350
mm-500 mm);split application of nitrogen fertilizer; seed treatment against
smut; and weed control.
2.       Seed Legumes (lentils).  Use of varieties  (Red Hamawi, Kurdi, and
Hurani); early autumn plowing (before first rain); November/December planting;
and fertilizer applications of about 20 kg/ha N and 50 kg/ha P20s.
3.       Watermelon.   April 'planting;  fertilizer applications  of  about  90
kg/ha N, 60 kg/ha P20s, and 45 kg/ha K20, and 55 kg/ha N, 35 kg/ha
P-Os and 25 kg/ha K20, under high and medium rainfall conditions respec-
tively; and disease control against powdery mildew and fusarium root rot.
4.       Cotton.  High yielding varieties (Aleppo 40, Acalas G4 and Tashk and
3); mechanical seeding and harvesting; fertilizer applications of about 150
kg/ha N, 75 kg/ha P205, and 150 kg/ha K20 under irrigated conditions;
split application of nitrogen fertilizer; and pest control.
5.       Vexetables  (Tomatoes).   Use  of  disease  free  seedlings;  control
against aphids, white fly and blight; fertilizer applications of about 150
kg/ha N, 100 kg/ha PzOs, and 100 kg/ha K20 under irrigated conditions;
split application of nitrogen fertilizer.
6.       Olives.   Annual  pruning;  autumn  and  spring  plowing;  fertilizer
applications of about 65 kg/ha N, 100 kg/ha P20s, and 40 kg/ha K20 under
high rainfall and 50 kg/ha N, 75 kg/ha PzOs, and 30 kg/ha KzO medium
rainfall conditions; control against olive moth and olive fly; root rot free
seedlings are recommended for establishment of new orchards.
7.       Grapes.  Autumn and spring plowing; fertilizer applications of about
110 kg/ha N, and 50 kg/ha P205, and 60 kg/ha N under high rainfall and 40
kg/ha PzOs under medium rainfall conditions respectively; control against
podery mildews and grape berry moth.
8.       Citrus.  Autumn and spring plowing; fertilizer applications of about
150 kg/ha N 300 kg/ha P20s and 100 kg/ha KzO under irrigated conditions,
pest control; disease free seedlings are recommended for the establishment of
new orchards.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
9.       Livestock (Sheep).  Disease control through vaccination against sheet
pox, drenching against internal parasites, and dipping against external para-
sites; better and selective feeding (feed availability will increase with
increasing crop yields and production); and early weaning. Cattle and selec-
tive feeding through concentrate supplementation and fodder production; and
disease prevention (mastitis).
;'.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
Directorate of Extension: Existing and Project Staff Requirements
Pr-project          -    -               With Prolect
Project                     Proiect Year
Total       Ara              1             2        2           4         zncremsntal
A.  ati0nal Level
Director                                   1          1              1            1        1            1
Deputy Director                            -          -              1            1        1              
Training Section
Chief                                    -          -              1            1        1            I               1
Trainers                                2           2             3             3        3            3               1
Field Extension Section
Chief                                    I          1              1            1        1            1               -
Agriculturists                           7          7             7             7        7            7
Livestock Specialist                    -           -             I             1        1            1               1
Economists                              -           -             2             2        2            2               2
Statistical Assistants                  -           -             2             2        2            2               2
Information Section
Chief                                    1          1              1            1        1            1               -
Engineers                               4           4             6             6        6            6               2                                              1
Assistants                              7           7              7            7        7            7                                                             w
Women Development Section                  1          -              -             -        -           -               _
Administration Section
Administration Officer                  1           1              1            1        1            1
Assistants                              2           2              S            S        5            5               3
Drivers                                 -          -_                           5       A            A               A
Subtotal                             27         26             44            44       44          44              18
B. Mahafaza Level
Chief                                     13         13             14            14       14          14               1
Deputy Chief                               -          -             14            14      14           14              14
Field Section                             28         28             36           36       36           36               8
Subject Matter Specialists I/              -          -             52           52       52           52              52
Women Development Section                 13          -              -             -        -           -
Information Section                      13          13             14           14       14           14               1
Administrative Officers                    -          -             l's           14       14          14              14
Administrative Assistants                  -          -             14            14       14          14              14
Drivers                                   -           -            J1             14       14          14              142
Subtotal                             67         54            172           172      172         172             118
C. SuDDort Centers/IantikaiNahia
Extension Supervisors                      -          -             60           60       bO           60              60
Subject Matter Specialists I/              -          -             2Q            Q       A            hi               i
Subtotal                              -          -             80           110      122         122             122
0. Extension Units
Extension Agents                        991         826           826           826      880         1l10             274
Vet. Assistants                        l11                        - Z-                   -=-         --
Subtotal                           1127        826            826           826      880        1100             274
Tota                                 1221        906           1122          1152     !21S         1438             532
I/ These would be transferred from other Directorates.



SYRZIA ARSB REPURL!
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Procuremint Schedule: Velhicles and EauigMut~
Unit                              Exancted Oaligerg (No) 21
Base        Total
Item                                 Nunber       Cost         Cost 1/
(LS OOO)    (LS'000)    85/86         86/87         87/88       88/89         Method of    Schedule
Procurement   Number
I. Vehicles
Station Wagons                      5         SS           327         --            5           --          --                iCe          A-1
Four Mhee1 Orive                   50         60        3,563          --           50           --          --                Ic           A-2
microbuses                         15         96         1,746         --            15                      _                 ICa          A-3
Pickups                           538         40       26,184          --          372          166          --                IC           A-4
Motorcycles                       66S           5        4,090         --          365          300          --                Ice          A-5
Spare parts                                              7,182
Subtotal                                               42,092
A. Extension Sarvice Eculament
Hotort ed Sprayer
Ouster                   300           2.0        713         --          300           --          --                ICa          B-6
Irrigation Syphon Tube  4.500            0.1        481         --        4,500           --          --                LIB
Spades or Shovel         1,100           0.1        141         --          420          140         340                LIS
Blackboard               1,590           0.25       473         --         1,485          --          --                LIB
Refrigerator                 SO          5          297         --            SO          --          --                LIS
Coouter                       1        100          119         --             1          --          --                LIC
Pruning Shear              600           0.1         74         --           300         300          --                IS
Pruning Saw                600           0.05        37         --           300         300          --                Is
Spring Balance             800           0.1        105         --           120         240         340                IS
Tape Measures 5On        1,100           0.1        112         --          420          340         240                iS
Low Power Lense          1,100           0.1         84         --          420          240         340                IS
Grafting Knive             600           0.1         52         --           300         300          --                IS
Voluretr1c Measure         800           0.05        52         --           120         340         340                IS
Oemo. Wall Sheet           489           0.5        302         --          489           --          __                is 
Demo. SaPle                489           1.2        726         --           489          --          --                IS                       0 
Meteorological Equip.    489             0.6        342         --           469          --          --                is                        I-il,
Apiary Equipment            150          0.5         39         --           150          --          --                IS                     H
Soil Auger                   39          0.S         23         --             9          --          --                IS 
Pruning Equipment            29          0.3         14         --            39          --          --                is
Calculator                   80          0.5         47         --            80          --          --IS
Typewriter. Arabic           1S          S           89         --            1S          --          --                IS
Typewriter, English           2          6           14         --             2          --          --                IS
Spare parts                                         613
Sub-total                                      5,044
I/ Including Contingencies
2/ Latest delivery day
3/ To be financed by the Government when direct purchase applied.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Procuremnt Sehedule: Vehicles and EouipMnt
Unit                             Expected Delivery (Not 2/
Base       Total
Item                                Number      Cost I/      Cost
No       (LS'OoQ)    LS0ooo)    tSJ/6          86/87      87/I8        l/IS9    Method of    Schedule
Procurement      Number
B. fle,mnstration Eajnent
Seed Drill hith Fertilizer 24          18         513         --           24          --          --         ICB            B-7
Fertilizer Distributor    39           11         510         --           39          --          --         ICe            8-8
Tractor Mounted Sprayer   39           14         649         --           39          --          --         IC              -9
Seed Cleaner                16         6          190         --           16          --          --         ICa            B-10
Cultivator                  21          7.5        187        --           21          --          --         ICe            B-11
Land Leveler                18         9          192         --           is          --          --         ICB            B-12
Sugarbeet Planter           iS         8          143         --           1S          --          --         ICS            9-13
Potato Lifter               16         4           76          _           16          --          --         ICe            0-14
Row Crop Convertor Kid    23           6          164         --           23          --          --         IS
Aninal Equipment            19         6          13J                      19          i-          _          IS
Spare Part                  --         --         690
Sub-total                                       3,448
C. Audtc  t;usl Fouiument
Slide Projector and
Screen                501          1.8      1.071         --         S50           --          --        ICe            C-lis
Battery Operated
Megaphone              500           1         595         -S 500                   -_          __        ICe            C-16
Video Recorder A TV         51         14         849         --           51          --          --         ICe            C-17.18
Photocopy Machine           1S        38          677         --           1S          -i --                   CB            C-19
Video Cuera and
Accessories                1       120          143         --            1          --          --         ICe            C-20
Cassette Editing Video
System                     1        80           95         --            1          --          --         iCe            C-21
Video Teyps                800          0.03       38         --          800          --          --         ICe            C-22
Generators                  45          1.8        96         --           45          --          --         ICe            C-23
Camer  lSMn  SLR            51          1.5         91        --           51          --          --         IS
Slide Library  1             S         S           89         --           15          --          --         IS
Reference Library (set)lJ 50           2.5        152         --           So          -           __         IS
PubliCations (set)I/       450         O.S        267         --          450          --          --         IS             
Spare parts                                       416                                                 _                                           oQ
Sub-total                                       4,560
Total Equipment
56,164N
.u...s....a.....as.aa...n...u..su..ssss"^"--^-s-s----u--.ae.-sassa...
I/ Includins Contingencies
21 Latest delivery day
1/ To be financed by the Goverruunt when direct purchase applied.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
National Aaricultural Extens10n Proiect
Extension methodoloay Trgininae Staff Trainina Schedule
(Staff Number)
858            86/87         87/88           WA             89/90           90 
Trained                                  460            706             926           1136          1336              1526
Available (Less 5% annual
attrition)                           .50                          J8102l
National                                20             20              20             20            20                20
Mohafaza                                70            130             130            130           130               130
Support Centers                         40            100             110            122           122               122
Extension Units                        320            420            620             oao           998             1178 2/
New Trainees 1/                          256            256             256            256           256               256
Total                                    706            926            1J26           1336          %526              1,706
1/ Assumes that fron 1985 onward 95 of the trainees from Extension Methodolosy Training would be extension project staff.
2/ Of which only 1100 will be assigned to the project area.
rn-I



SYRTA ARAB REPUBLIC
Natjion&  AsrAcultural Extension Project
Subiect Hatter Soecialistsm Estimated Distribution of Pronosed Staff
Support                                  Subiget Matter Soecialist                             Location of SMSs
Centers    Field Crops  Irrig. Agron. Veget.   Tree Crops        Animal    Mechanization Support Mohafaza       Totals
H._ usbandr_   Centers
Olmascus              3            2              3            2         2              1           1         9          2            11
Dara&a                1             1             -            1         2              1           1         -          6             6
Swe1da                1             I             -            1         2              1           1         -          6             6
Quneitra              I             1             -                      1              1           -         -           4            4
Mons                  3            2              3            1         1              1           1         5           4            9
mam,                  3            2              3            1         1              1           1         5          4             9
Ahab                  2             1             2            1         1              -          -          2           3            5
Lattakia              3             1             2            2         2              1           1         6           3            9
Tartous               3             1             1            2         2              1           1         4          4             8
Idleb                 3            2              -            I         2              1           l         4           3            7
Aleppo                4             3             3            l    1            1                  1         6           4           10
Hassakeh              4             3             4            1         1              1           1         7           4           11
Al Rlkkah             4            3              4            -         -              1           1         7           2            9
Oair Ezaor           -A           31              4                      I             -1         -1         .          .1           1.
Total              39           26             29           15        19             13         12         62         52           114
Mohafaza I/                           6              1            9         11           13          12                                 52
Support Center                      20             28             6         a             -           -                                 62
JL SHSs to be asstgned to the Mohafaza departments of Extension are as follows: all SMS assigned to Dera'a, Sweida and Kuneltra, and
SHSs where only one of any speciallxation is assigned to the Mohafaza.



-44-
a  im      mm 1111111110
am Cub   letsh zw3ww CW"ffm=in                t     WluniI
imamium
3. 73223233    mdd
flg.raim                                            VIa - 3 01 3 2 6   1    -    0 V   V313 2             -   11   la2   12    SI       -3 A       2    IF219
2*Teta htmum OMSSION.                                                         -    413  Ism  3.63  2.13          67 3 2175 2.249  Ism5        Ile  31   515.311
2.MM MU   wmuuL
Field CuwhIfatl~   /a           lnuau       -   is  to  to   21  is    -   23   25   15    21             -   NI   31   22              -   72   52   21   177
Itrion    areimen              luau."        -1a52026            s a  2115  *    mz        IN    12       -3131l17    699    -71   St   32  77
lentol  /c            Tlu a          .a 162        *      130    -23253              -    2       *   124  11      *    lb      -  21     2      - 
Im Cm" /d              Iau          -32is0         5          s          0 2110 -   2*                      IN -7.22   =:    D   -u       a.   Is 
New   pabed1wv/g              hula.o       -    -   216        325 I       -    -    5    253in                    2311  217   429    -    -    a1   is2o
racmumaam If                   h,m          -£613          -    93 1        -24303m          *   36       - 24224           -   259    -  3       24    -    65
Sub4awa 26f  SIu UKU.OU- 36 34 2 -                                                                          -   03o 1wta1.41    7 1212.2  -         12   23 
2. P13.1 AftwatI411111
1xtwm.ssm.le nrn               lua.        212a    -    -    13       6 121021no                  422 44  32          -    -   52    12   Uin-1
p'mj.tbjtsUzr                  Tusep      23    1  23  23  low3  0.   In3  11   is   23    1            24   IV   X1iS 1 37   Go  42   521                 1  79
1m1.ubLm                       hula.        5    1   -    -   it0a0    53              -           3    U    12    -    -    223   Is26            -    -    21
SUNNI Tom I                    ltisa.       -    2   4    4   to024         -    5     3    96   30       -   202In922          NI    - is   21   21    a
1.*-T.2a1 Psaet a.u.a,tntaue                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~416  413 2    296.2    4771   12  13   NSIgU  In22  4      34     2   421
1*i-hula 1IUIIU                                                                403 1,76 2.4  2.a1  7.43   477 2.22,1 239 2;   9.59   22 3     31                2.42
I. XmuLa osf513
1. Tra.uu
EIw.rt,G  Tuau. font ,lb      346*/ml            6   22  22   31 MA.        -   29?   394   54  l.ow          Vo1   79   332  2.3           INS  31   22  12
1*-Total luanau                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~-----7Z41  -10=797  342                   -  4  1 212
2. EanmaLI
C.tmkn mM,                    haffAMb                 a  32      621        -    -   is s         2             -31217           a,9    -          1    a3lot
mm *11tecinarnmet             1taftm11 11        4   -    -    1138    -230            -    -    23       - V2        -    -   15       -3                    a
Amut.ni 11 t.luAai  1w.       Shf/mlaw      2    7   7    6   32  53   23   MNI   31  23           M  I. U 1    431   0     421  2.03    29  I20   29   lie  339
320-1.44                                                                    13   633 I     is   26 a .s    21   0     672   43 2 .23      925 21    a 
W-gA2 1u1111mLam.                                                              In63251w1sfb                  U    W 13    4   .3.3    .23 362233411  2414  4.21    29  Ml  3     Ul  .d3
TOW owsi am                                                    o ---S7 -m -wM -9 354 ;w -I;-;'1A -        -I. T-=-3
U.        cmI 
h,aaaaggtuqjaia,                   Li         2    1   I    1    4         14   24   24   24   24     3    27   29    1    21   119    7    7    a0          3  1
hy.a.htttginc                     LI          I    I   I    1    42          3    23    3         30    a  1 2   4   26   2        19          A    1    7    25
Tml,u22ubflinLi                              2    2   2    2    3  7.1    25   25   15   13    60   27    a    29   21    74    4   5    5    5    19
Il*.Tead s21141131  XM11111                                                    13 55 St 59              l   65   70   76   U    2135            171   19   21   74
L 2130931113111U/1                   13L        422m331312.da30.223                  2    662     2    3 212 42   72   19    a    27    236             23    2    95
Tow   in     isU                                                                  2IV   21?   22   22    547   3      1 1413i   la7    as1       3 R    23   32  lop
TldGa                                                                              -7 2.1433Z a   10.37    30.0 3   56232 golil 24.              26  1.27 2.15S 2.33
is 32
If am    mf. hob
A  For glatinasm bWal2  £1 amAa  .
fl For a wied tf 3-6    Iaf all Field owlf.



SYRIAN A*5* IIPwILIC
NAW1[1*11t SGSICWIITU3I *ll,NS101 PIOJICt
Su.ary Actouats by T*ar
Its ooel
ko. Costi                              loreign tzcMrp
.......................  .          ......... .... ....................   ................
IS/IS      IS/I?         14/U      18/83        total            .       bqa
:::::t:  :::t:2:X     :S::stnS   st..3s*,,  ,         w3,.2     :w..:  $8hasz..
1. INVIStHIST COSIS
................
A. IUItNINI V EtNICLES
....................
1. Vethiclo                                                          - 21. 740.0   *. I6..0                   35. 5".0        74.2    o,334, 
2.  Equipwnt                                                            10. 010. O       117. 1      152.5   10 520.4         74.1    L 5.MS5.
3. Haterlsls                                                     St.I 1.351.2   2.H1.6   3.131.17    1124.5                   33.       2662. 3
.... .... .......   ........ . .... ...........   ...... ....... ......   ............   ......   ........ ;......
S*teotel EIUIPIlI * WEICUtS                                           1. 0 37. 142.e  13, 114.    4. 144.2   54,5572.             6 U.0   37.0S .0
S.  TicNtic*L   lss5slt4 c   I  lRlAIlIN
1.  Ierol9n  Consultat                                         100. 0      541.0   1 04.0   10.44.0    3,15 0                10.e0    3. 155.0
2.  Foreign  Truining                                                -       46          3s10         IL6.        240.0         0.e0      216.0
3   Local  Itlnlng                                             610.0   1.7100.    2,140.0   2.2200    13 00.0e                   1. a      12.0
....... ......... .... ..... . . ........ ........... ....... ..................... ...........
Sub-Ttel e    tCltNIC*L   ASSISTANCE  S TUIIINl                    5 . 0   2631.0   370. 0   36. .0   10e1. 0                     34.I2    3.521.0
.... ... ........ ... ........   ........... ........   ........... .   .......... .........
fatal  IIVISTEINt  Costs                                               531. Is 3937.0  16. 44.   7 504.2   54, 121.3                   52.5   40, s.0
II.  aicummimi  casys
*.  ISLARIES  I LOW*UCES                                     J 411.S   4.404.0   6. 193.3  10.   s.s   24U 014. S                0.6          0.0 
I.  033I  oll  a mIAIstuNAsCI                                           *  J. 025.  3  . 273. 6  tO. 513. I  22. 38. I           30. 2    S. 2s.4 
C. OTHE  COStS                                                     1o.0        10.0         10.0        it.0         40.0       20.0           0.0
....... ...... ....... ...........   .. ........ ........... ....... ............... .... ....
loletl   C11 U1111  COSIS                                            3. 421.     ,1. 3 1. 3 IS.443,   241.45.. 6   4712. .             14.5  5 .333. 4
total 54E11111  COSTS                                                 4.013.3 41.216.3  32,426.1 t           ,S12.5  1 12,60. S         42.2   47.552.4
Plysiegl  Contligm   iess                                            230.1 J        4.1".  1,344.4    1.1Ii2         6.351.0        41.0    2.11'.I
Price  Conti ngenc lea                                               242.0 eI 542. 5 *   575.    3 . 732. 0   24. 1S2.   3 7. 0    IL  24. S
.... .... ... ...... .............. ........   ........... ........ ...........   ...... ............ .....
lTtal  SthidCT  COSTS                                                 4, US.0 50.L 34. 5 41, 3463 40. 18.   143,333.1                   41. 3   55. 164 
tizz:2s  $-Satz$s  .... cost t%Xlsstst atssszss   149*9t  880382222
l?&os                                                                   4.6   6,641.2   2,M1.6            43S.5    3,317. 3          0.0           0.0
foreign Eachager                                                     131.6 347ss., 16,010 .2 6U 254.1   59. 14.0                     0.0           0.0
Airut 7. 1965 I;: 02



Pie ltwl" "a 1"1 telki
uilgam Aalu,wami& gtimsiom POAgi
ss_y AKml by Pre)et l _
itt lnItttF 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l"{lft  l
MItioeancu
................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ............
Uviusim     W                    flitstait istut                                             i........
.................h..
I. Y.Azl.lu                                                          11.      6                                                 -                - Mt13.1S00.         S.   1 1. M.4
1. Cqiip.ut                                                            4. la.               .10 1  3.0621    25 .1                                      600.M.4        S.e I    4il.0
3. Nba1e,lag                                                                               4.N4.          36.". 0                                 -     6.114.5    16.6    812.5
iS i-ttal t4lIw1it a VUNICLIS                                             neil..               1107.6         1GI.s                  -                     1 54.552.9      S 1 3. 133.2
1   ifUIC*I ASSISTIIC * I OWNlING
...............................
t. #lorWo   Iul                                                                                                                           3OSAA  -  S. -  -  2. 51.0  2 . .  10.6    311.1
2.  foree lgln 9lp    g4                                                                                                                   246.6                      16.6      14.6
Igasi ItalalAg                                                                                                                                           9 10.  16. 6    It.#    16".6
1g-e.l vgauiga^1  -stingaiim                                                                         -              *~  1e".e                  -n.    eea2.e  te.6  uen2.
.................... .....                                   ....           .....            ....          ..     ...
5444141 tteCOel&   ASSlSINCE I tuININ                                                                                        i;i4i.           3.15      i.  M@ 2. 0        ie  1.0;2.i
................ .............. ............. ........... ..........  ............  .................  .......... ............ ................ .. ... ...
total Iyisti tt  MistS                                                        n. s1 i. 1           10M. I         16I.            . t14e.e       zJ   n.       £ 4.811.        L4 4.1 6 .4
II. "OMNIu COSTS
...............
A   Skl*HtS I ALtS ICII                                                 2469.l6.                                213.6                          541 .S    24.814.5        5.6  1.246.1
L.  W1I6It    I       I N*IUmS                                          H. 21S.4              . .11.2        1.141.1                                      22.10.1 e      S.   1.147.0
C.  TMiE  COSTS                                                                                                  06.6              -                           4.0       S.6        3 .0
............  ..................... ............ ................ ..... ....... .... .....   ....... .......... ........................... ......
legal  KU 1m    9 liii                                                        44 4.211.4 1*101.2                   16c31 t                          14  1      41,811.1 C       .6 e     M. 6
total 101allt  MIii                                                            636142.6360 L                        01   . Sol. I  14.6 2"    .   3121.1   1 136.1 NI           L.6I 111. 6
Ilygeal Cntliesm4lot                                                        4101.1                 6)3. I         14   4         714.0            341.0 I     L1SS.         6.6        6.0
ftIm   CoiIgamwf.                                                          It. 54L2             12.3M.I         1611.6        1.     .            0.2    24. 1152.3         1.'  11.31it
..................................  ..................  .......... ............ .............  ...........   ......... ..........   ..........
Total  tIt            COM iff.166L 4                                                               it.21'. I       I 10.3.        6.1ML1           4.0411    143.M. I           S. 1.1 1 30.1
X.nuuuus,.u,,,,,,   u.....u:,,...           .m,,mnaa.s   a ..;..   aa.a.... *siinni   mu,,.... a,:................"
tlsr                                                                        14214                  231l.  22 110.0                                     -        9007.3      S.   1 511.
forewi     twe huq                                                         43.604.              430.1I          L244.S           4612          4277.0    S   164.6          S.4  1211.5
............................................................................ .......................................................................................................  ........... 
.9:0I



&MA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
Quarterly
Bank Fiscal Year and                      Disbursement   Cumalative Disbursement
End Quarter                            ------- US$ Million-Percentage
September 30, 1985                       0.00            0.00             0
December 31, 198S                        0.00             0.00            0
March 31. 1986                           0.00             0.00            0
June 30, 1986                            0.25            0.25             3
September 30, 1986                       0.10             0.35            5
December 31, 1986                        0.10             0.45            6
%arch 3t, 1957                           0.10             0.55             7
June 30, 1987                            0.15             0.70            9
1987m1988
September 30, 1987                       0.50             1.20           16
December 31. 1987                        0.50             1.70           23
March 31, 1988                           0.60             2.30           31
June 30, 1968                            0.60             2.90           39
September 30, 1958                       0.60             3.50           47
December 31, 1988                        0.70             4.20           56
March 31, 1969                           0.70             4.90           65
June 30, 1969                            0.70             5.60           75
198911990
September 30, 1969                       0.60             6.20           83
Oecember 31, 1989                        0.50             6.70           89
March 31, 1990                           0.40             7.10           95
June 30, 1990                            0.40             7.50          100                                                             w a
Closing date: June 30. 1990



-48 -
Annex 2
Appendix 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
Work Schedule of Extension Agents
Specific work schedule of extension agents would be developed by the
Directorate of Extension and their counterparts at the mohafaza level.  It
would take into account among others, the complexity of the farming system in
specific areas, state of development of the agriculture, level of farmers'
education and seasonality of agricultural activities. For indicative planning
purposes, the following mouthly work schedule has been developed:
Routine visit to contact farmers and farmer groups         16 days
Preparation and laying out field demonstrations             2 days
In-service training at support center                       1 day
Conducting field days and/or farmers meeting                2 days
Extension Unit office for record keeping and
available for farmers consultation                         2 days
Support center in mohafaza for work programning             1 day
Mobafaza office for administrative purposes                 1 day



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
SYRIA1I ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Prooram: Draft Terms of Reference and Qualifications
for Consultants
A. Extension Planning Advisor
1.       The Extension Planning Advisor would assist the Director of Extension
on reviewing the overall planning, organization and supervision of all exten-
sion activities. In coordination with the chief of the training unit and the
training advisor, he would evaluate the adequacies of the trained staff, and
identify any new training needs, and as when, required. He would pay particu-
lar attention to the integration of the two approaches to agricultural exten-
sion, mainly personal contact and mass media communication, and would suggest
to the Director of Extension any modifications, and as when, required.
-2-.     The appointee would be internationally recruited, and must have an
MSc in agricultural sciences (or its equivalent) with specialization in
Agricultural  Extension.   He  should  have  at  least  seven  years  of  field
experience in agricultural extension activities with at least two years of
extension program  planning, preferably with good knowledge  in Arabic.  He
would be required to visit Syria for two short periods of three months each,
during the third and fourth years of the project.
B. Extension Training Advisor
3.       The Advisor on Extension Training would advise the Director of Exten-
sion and his training staff on: (a) planning and implementing the training
course on extension methodology and communication skills; (b) planning,
organizing, developing curricula and supervising the implementation of all
other project-related training courses (specialized subjects, project related
technology, etc. SAR paras. 3.26-3.30), and (c) planning and implementing the
in-service training program  (SAR para. 3.32).   He  would  also  train,  the
trainees in extension methodology training.
4.       The appointee would be internationally recruited and .nust have at
least an MSc in Agricultural Sciences, preferably with specia2ization in
agricultural extension training. He should be fluent in Arabic and have at
least five years of experience in agriculture training activities, with at
least two years in planning and conducting training courses in agricultural
extension. He would be required for a period of two years, during the third
and fourth years of the project.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
C. Monitoriq and Evaluation Consultancy Team
5.       The team of consultants would be internationally recruited to provide
professional services to the Directorate of Extension within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. and its counterparts at the Mohafaza level.
The purpose of the service would be to introduce a comprehensive system to
monitor and evaluate the impact of the extension activities proposed under the
project.
6.       The services to be performed by the consultants shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
(a)    assessment of the base line surveys currently being carried out
by trained extension agents and development of methodological
approach for analyzing field survey data so as to properly
identify and quantify available resources, potential, and con-
straints on a microregion (extension agent territory), and to
stratify farmers according to farming systems;
(b)    assessment of any other available information to be used for
that purpose;
(c)    development of set of indicators that would be used to evaluate,
in financial and economic terms, the effectiveness of the systems
and the technological packages being "ntroduced;
(d)   development of formats to be used in the monitoring and evalua-
tion system, and establishing the flow of information within and
(if necessary) outside the Extension Directorate;
(e)    organizing of a computerized system of data bases and analysis.
(f)    provision of on-the-job--training on monitoring and, evaluation,
and on computer techniques, including data processing and
analysis, to key personnel of all levels of the extension
service; and
(g)    assisting the Directorate of Extension in the mid-term review,
to be carried out after the third year of the project which
should include an assesment of the effectiveness of extension/
research linkages and adequate of research program, and in the
ex-post evaluation, to be carried out at the end of the fourth
year of the project.
7.       The consultancy team shall be stationed in Damascus and work in close
coordination with the Training Specialist and Extension Advisor, provided under
the UNDP Project No. SYR/83/002JC/01/12.  The team would consist of the three
members for the following periods:
Total   Mid 1986   Early 1988   Mid 1989
--  -  staff/months             -
Agricultural Economist              11        6           3             2
Agronomist                           8         3          3             2
Extension Specialist                 3        3           3             2
Total               -22                    9           9             6



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
The Agricultural Economist should have an MSc in Agricultural Economics with
suitable experience in computer data processing and analysis and at least five
years of experience in agricultural project management. He would be the team
leader. The Agronomist and Extension Specialists should have an MSc in
agricultural Science or its equivalent. The Agronomist should have at least
five years of experience in applied research and the Extension Specialist at
least seven years experience in agricultural extension management. The team
would be required to visit Syria for three short periods, during the first,
third and fourth years of the project. All members of the team should have
good working knowledge of English preferable with good working knowledge of
Arabic.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Aaent Activities
Farmers Contacted Per Extension Agent
1         2          3          4          5         6          7          a          9
--------- -----------------------Project Years…--------_…_-_                -__-
A.   Rainfed Areas
Contact Farmer l/                               6          7          8         8          8          8          8          8         8
Direct Followers Z/                             -         42         67        107       145        155        160        160       160                    1
Indirect Followers l/                           -          -         10        17         27         36         38        40         40                    Un
Total Farmers                          6         49         85        132        180       199        206        208        208
B.   Irrigated Areas
Contact Farmer I/                               6          7          a         8          8          8          8.         8         8
Oirect Followers Z/                             -         42         67        107       145        lSS        160        160       160
Indirect Followers l/                           -          -          6        10         16         22         23        24         24
Total Farmers                          6         49         81        125        169       185        191        192        192
I/ Per Extension Agent.
2/ 1st year, 0; 2nd year, 7; 3rd year. 10; 4th year. 15; 5th year, 20 per Contract Farmer.
)I Deferred by one year at 25X of direct followers in rainfed areas and 1S% in Irrigated areas.
w



SXRIAN-ARAS REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Farmers Contacted and AdoDtr_i
Total                                                Proiect year                                                     _       of
Farm Model                            Number of       1          2           3          4          5           6          7          B           9         10        TJal..
Farmers
Rainfed (500 mm) Mechanized                80.000
Farmers contacted                                     300      2.540      5,165       9,525     15,180    20,720    25,930    30,095    33,050    34.610                43
Adopters                                               --          90        822      2.118      4,429       7,747     11,675     15,913    19,229    21.642             27
Rainfed (350-500 mm) Mechanized            80.000
Farmers contacted                                     300      2,540      5,165       9,525     15,180    20,720    25.930    30.095    33,050    34,610                43
Adopters                                                           90        822      2,118      4,429       7.747     11L675     15,913    19,229    21,642             27
Irrigated Mechanized                      150.000
Farmers contacted                                     948      8,048    15,897    29,351        46,408    63,048    79-6 4    ;0.682    99,277   103,683                69
Adopters                                               --         379      3,503      5,915     17,764    30.155    44 339    SB,789    71,635    81,860                 55
Irrigated Small-scale                      45,000
Farmers contacted                                     276      2,344      4,641       8,597     13,570    18,450    23,058    26,606    29,169    30,513               G6  *n
Adopters                                               --         110      1,020      2,601      5,197       8,821     12,973     17.224    21,006    24,031             51  w
Rainfed (500 mm) Small-scale               12.500
Farmers contacted                                      48        404         808      1,501      2,404      3,300       4.178      5.401       5,685      5,787          46
Adopters                                                           14        130        332         697      1,223      1,851      2,544       3,202      3,765          30
Rainfed (350-S00 mm) Small-scale           12,500
Farmers contacted                                      48        404         808      1,501      2,404       3,300      4,178      S,401       5,685      5,787          46
adopters                                                           14        130        332        697       1,223      1,851      2,544       3,202      3,765          30
Total Farmers Contacted           380.000       1,920      16,280    32,484    60,000    95.146   129,538   162,888   188,280   205,916   214.990                    57
Total Adopters                                      --        697      6,427    16,416    33,213    56,916    84,364   112,927   137,503   156,705                   41
lbi



SYRIAN ARAB RZIUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTINSIOM
Farm Income Financial Imoact of Recommended Technplo.ical Packaaes
Costs                      Gross Value        Net               Benefit             Labor
Farm Size      Cash I/        Labor         Total         of Product         Farm              Cost Ratio          Requirement
ha                                                                        Income                                 Lab/days
-------------------------------- LS -
Rainfed Farm 500 mm 1/ P 1/  7.5                7,400         7,700          15.100       26.000           10,900               1.7                 154
F     7.5             12,400         8,S00         20,900       43,700            22,800               2.1                 170
Rainfed Farm 350 mm 1/ P        7.5             6.400         7,200          13,600       19,100            5,500               1.4                 144
F     7.5            10,700          8,100         18,100       31,100            12,300                .7                 161
Irrigated Mechanized
Farm I/ P                  5.0             10,200        10,300         20,500       28,200             7,700               1.4                 206
F                 5.0             11,900         9,600         21,500        34,500           13,000               1.6                 192
Irrieated small scale
Farm 1/ P                  1.5              5,500        11,300         16,800       33,600            16,500               2.0                 226
F                 1.5              6,800        11,800          18,600       43,400           24,800               2.3                 236
Rainfed Farm SaO m 4/ P         4.0             3,100         8,400           11,500      22,300            10,800              1.9                 168
F      4.0              5,600         9,700           15,300      35,800           20,500               2.3                 193
Rainfed Farm 350 V/ P           4.0             3,000         7,800           10,800      15,700             4,900               1.5                156
F        4.0              5.000         9,000           14,000      24,600            10,600              1.8                 181
Note: PzPresent; F=Future.
Assuims following cropping paterns
1/ P: wheat NYV a Zha: wheat local=2.0ha; legumes1.2ha; watermelons=0.3ha: tree crops=1.5ha: fallow=0.5
F: wheat HYV = 4.Sha; legumes-1.2; watermelon=0.3ha; tree crops=l.sha.
I/ of which 3ha are irrigated as follows = wheat HYV-l.Sha; cotton-l.Oha; sugarbeet=0.3ha; vegetables=0.l; fruit trees=O.lha; and 2ha are under rainfed
conditions with less than 250mm of rainfall as follows: wheat localal.5: fallowzO.S.
ai Vegetables (tomato, eggplant and onion)-1.2ha; fruit trees (apples L citrus)=0.4ha; waste bunds=0.2ha.
i/ F: wheat local=l.O legumszo.5s olives=2.Oha; other tree crops (grapes).O.Sha
F: wheat NYV=1.0; leggumsO.5; olives-2.Oha; other tree crops (grapes)10.$ha.
I/ All Input and service cash costs.
J/ All labor (family and hired) has been valued at market wage rate of LS So/day.
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-55 -         
Table  4
Vials.   7t., S ~hitmman                 n    au mflt.
yieldSU.Ca                                                                                                                                         R eturn to
Seo"                         FPstuic1fe7Wi rr c G        e      W Ire.            Labor    Irripeti.,  oue                          La_e
Prod   b-Prod Ks/h         N       P     1        Kom                                               C/ft          LS/Ia      LI/h                     LS/d
tinfed (SW m)
Crafps
IIOt "TVW            2 1    2.3    125         10      40  -           0.1          11               2                    l0           - eo                               iS
f         2.0    3.1    IRS        123      70   -          2.0         Is               2                      £          -           95                      240
uet Ltcal P          1.2    I.S      110       s0      -    -          -            11             1.2                     9           -          GS                      1
f      1.6    2.0    110         GO      4     ,         -            13             1.0                     a           -       -  s                       15I
LentilSP             0.9    1.1      li0       -       -    -            *          10            -                        t           -          40                       92
F           1.2    1.5      Ii        20      50-               I         12             -                       I           -           s                       ii
eacoraloa P          0.5    -          3       -       -    -            2          16             -                      35                      40                       91
r       12.0    -          3        0o     GO   45          *          1              -                      4e                       70                     ln
OlivP r              2.0    -                          -     -           2          10                                    a5           -          25                      1lY
F            3.2    -          51/    s 4      oU   45           3          la            -                       6            -          Ss                      Is;
Grua  P              *.0    -          e        5      35   -            2           9             -                      Ss           -           S                      114
r            7.0    -         a       le        0                a-         it            -                       as           -         171                       43
Sainred (3Uu 1
Crops
ct tlVy P            1.3    1.4       lie      30      -    -          0.1          11             1.3                                            71                      132
F         1.0    2.0      Ia   e o          so   -          0.          13             1.7                      a          -a                                 202
Sont LoCal P         1.0    1.Z      le        10      -    -         -             II             1.8                     *           -           5                      120
F       1.3      .     110       s       I    -         -             13      .      1.                                  -          71                      175
LietilS P            0.7    0.9    ISO         -       -    -         -                           -                       17           -          35                       73
r           3.0    1.2    IO          20      40   -            I         12             -                       17          -           sO                      :07
watemlon  P          4.5    -           2      -       _    _             I         Is                                                            Ss                       so
F      9.0    -                  5s       15  20            1         14            -                       30           -           e                       f
O11v oP               1.4    -            1/   -       -    -            2          In                                                            25                       04
F            2.2    -            I/  s5        n    a 2          .  1.                    -                       1-                      45                     lS
GrCpaP               3.0    -           0 1/25         2s                2           0                                    70                     IS0                       74
F            4.5    -          0/   G                                       i -           -                       70           -          S&                      1s
IrrigateS Cras
'-Oti MT  P          2.7    3.0      121       0       s0    -         1.7          14            2.2                     l1        4"           loe                      204
F         2.4    2.7    125        120      o    -          2.1         10             2.5                     1s        400          ls                       2W4
Catton P             2.S    -       27.1     le0      G    100         25          1S            -                      IDS        4ee          15s                        7
F            3.1    -       37.5      ISO      75   ISO         25         2I             -                        5s        ee          in0                       05
Tmate 3  P          22.0    -         22      I22      SS  IU          15          25            -                      200        oo           32s                      112
F       20.0    -          33      14S    120   12O          20         35             -                     200         700         405                       IS7
OnIon P             10.0    -         25       s5      so   *            0                        - _I"                             2e0           se                       77
F            22.0    -         25      110    li0   eII           2          12            -                      160        30            911                      De
Appl P              10.0    -         as _1/ 1 e       7f    De         is           a            -                      140        40e          200                      120
f           IS.0    -         30 1/  17S    l2e   ine           25         24             -                      160        400          35                       lGS
Orange  P           15.0    -         20 1    100    200   100          25         23             -                      Ise        50           3MU                      In
F          21.0    -         301/ IJ   O    200   1ee          45         as             -                      10         see         5le                       251
Suoar bdtP          22.0    -         20       s0      G0     0         le          la            -                      1a2        50           120                      Gs
r      40.0    -          20      i4s      75   125         12         2s             -                     110         One         1S4 
Mete:  P *   esent: F * future.
1/ Sedlines/na Cauejel rwplacenti.
2/ in 1*000 sedl ing/te.



- 56 -
ANEX S
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBL1C
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. General Reports
1.   Syrian Arab Republic Development Prospects and Policies: Report
of the 1977 World Bank Mission No. 1975a-SYR, Feb. 22, 1980
2.   Syria Country Economic Memorandum, Report No. 3303-SYR (1982)
3.   Statistical Abstracts,  (Syrian Central  Bureau of  Statistics)
1980-1983
4.   The Annual Agricultural Statistical Abstracts,  (Syrian Min. of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform) 1983
5.   Agriculture Policy Study in the Syrian Arab Republic, Damascus,
1985 (Prices, Marketing, Financing, Interest Rates and Savings)
November 1984
6.   Syrian Agriculture Sector Report #5563-SYR. March 1985
B. Selected Reports Related to the Project
1.   National  Agricultural  Extension  Project,  Preparation  Report,
FAO/IFAD Investment Support Program, Investment Center, FAO,
Rome, 1982 Report No. 21/82 IF SYR 15, Sept. 1982
2.   IBID. Follow-up Preparation Report, Report No. 22/82 IF/SYR 15,
September 1983.
C. Working Papers and Tables for Project Implementation
1.   Background on Syrian Agriculture, Working Paper No. 1
2.   Agriculture Extension, Working Paper No. 2
3.   Farming Development, Working Paper No. 3
4.   Agriculture Research in Syria, Working Paper No. 4
5.   Agriculture Training, Working Paper No. 5
6.   Background Paper on ICARDA, Working Paper No. 6
7.   Farm Model Analyses, Working Paper No. 7
8.   Project Costs and Financing, Working Paper No. 8



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Organizoanal Chatd Ithe Ministy cf Aglculture and Agraodn Refom)
d gate                              
L.~~~~~~R Ev"W                     /                         \d
D x' D.                           De
&  2aoIte d. Diat gt
&VPrOcclion J 2 9eppe &Al         P I
4  D,vb I ]                                              
|  & Yoccnz  |                                          Wald k-270t~~~~~~toc



-A   /is                                                                                           T       U-R   K'  E      Y                                                                               37    - P     Ia
I Z~~~~..e So, rdo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    Tois  dS
A-.  *~20l0,~                                                                                          
L   E., v-   .1   0                                                  5   4 o                                  dosz   m.ca   fi"'  as
A i-b ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      29~                             -ad4m~,,I .dfO
Loll.4.?30     ~            cc~..Id         R        A  ''e
9i1u1  II






